ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats and keep your conversation quiet. I'm asking you to. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 10 March this year. Jadwiga Baltakis, Senator of the second term, member of the Committee on Social Policy and Health, died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon her."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birthday. Welcome to the meeting. Hello family, daughter of Adam Giedrys, Mrs Stefania Giedrys-Kalemba with her husband Marian Kalemba, I welcome you very warmly, my grandson Adam Giedrys with his wife Dorota Roszkowska-Galant and Gabriela Galant's daughter and his son Adam Galant. I also warmly welcome Mr. Krzysztof Graczyk. I would like to welcome you all very cordially. We are going to consider this point, the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birthday. Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 725 and the committee's report In print No 725 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Dear Family! There is also one of Adam Giedrys' main students, Mr Krzysztof Graczyk, with his family. High Izbo! I have the honour to present with no doubt the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys. The character is extraordinary, legendary, so locally spoken of, but the attitude of this man, according to the senators, as well as people who for the first time, because they are, with this silhouette, require special recognition and special memory in the century of their birth, because in 11 days we will celebrate the century of the birth of this self-taught astronomer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this resolution was adopted unanimously, that everyone to whom I addressed as an applicant was willing to sign it as a starter, i.e. as an initiative that Mr. Marshal gave his consent, as I mentioned it as a representative of the applicants, to even skip reading in committee because of the consensus of all clubs on this resolution. But given that, as I'm going to say, procedural caution, especially the fact that there may be mistakes or that certain clarifications are needed, and that's what the committee is for... And indeed, two amendments were made: one language, one substantive, because the name of our hero was confused... his nickname under which he was hiding. These amendments were introduced and the resolution was adopted unanimously. What I'm trying to say is that this astronomer isn't just locally worshipped. The Polish Post Office issued a special stamp for the centenary of his birthday, there is a special card, Mr. Marshal will get it from his daughter, Professor. There's one more thing personal, which is why it's my special touch, ladies and gentlemen. I remember when I was a little kid, Adam Giedrys invited my parents to watch the stars. I remember that telescope. It turned out that he himself constructed a telescope using glasses, his own glasses and a microscope eyepiece, based, of course, on previous patterns. That's where he started, he built the observatory himself, maintaining himself as a tailor. Let me read the text of this resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on his 100th anniversary. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Adam Giedrys pays tribute to the world-renowned astronomer A self-teacher, a socialist, a patriot fighting for an independent Homeland, imprisoned and oppressed by communist power. Adam Giedrys was born on 26 March 1918 in the village of Sidabra near Vilnius. He spent his youth in Vilnius, where he graduated from tailor's school. Since the beginning of the war, he has been associated with the Armed Forces and then with the National Army. He was a clandestine liaison and acted under the pseudonym "Benhal" in the 7th Battalion of 77th Army infantry regiment commanded by Major. Jan Piwnik, Ponure. For this activity he was awarded a Medal of the Army of the Polish Government in London. After the war, he settled in Szczecin, where he was hiding from the Security Service and the NKVD under the assumed name Edward Błasiński. He was sentenced to 5 years in prison for storing weapons in the second trial of members of the Battle of the Army (BOA) in Szczecin. Staying in prisons (Szczecin, Wronki, Siedlce, Warsaw) paid with severe health upset. Adam Giedrys' interest in astronomy was born during his treatment and long-term recovery. In order to observe the stars he built, with glasses and a microscope eyepiece, his first telescope according to Galileo's idea, then he constructed two Newton telescopes with a mirror diameter of 125 mm and 250 mm. He created an astronomical observatory in Szczecin, where the telescopes mentioned above were an instrument of observation. Its observations of two variable stars, V 456 Cygnus and DK Pegasus, were recognised by the International Astronomical Union. As a member of the International Astronaut Federation (IAF), he participated in 21 international international conventions. On 15 May 1971, thanks to his personal efforts, for the first time in Poland there was an exhibition of the lunar rock from the Apollo 11 mission of 1969. In 1972, at the invitation of NASA, he visited the United States of America for two months. Adam Giedrys also taught young people about astronomy with great commitment. He founded a branch of the Polish Association of Astronomy Lovers in Szczecin. From the 1960's to the 1990's, he organized summer astronomical camps. The knowledge and materials acquired during the conventions of the International Astronaut Federation helped him to organize 46 astronomy and astronaut seminars. The Senate of the Republic of Poland recognizes the attitude and activity of Adam Giedrys as a role model for subsequent generations of Poles. The Senate of the Republic of Poland addresses educational and scientific circles with an appeal to popularize the knowledge about the characters and achievements of Adam Giedrys. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Dear Family Representatives! High Izbo! So spontaneously I would like to share one thought. I'm ashamed to admit that I've never heard of this extraordinary character before, and I didn't find out about her until yesterday. This shows that there is something interesting to learn in the Senate as well. This is the first important thought. The other is even more important and more serious, ladies and gentlemen. Today's character is of particular importance to me. We live in times where a scientist is actually a profession and in which there is an incredible professionalization of scientific work. Research itself is subject to research. This is the whole industry. There are institutions that analyze, monitor research. And there is a general belief, to a large extent right, that without money, without access to public funds, nothing in science can be done. This is largely true. But the essence of science, the search for truth and curiosity are something else, something beyond the framework of professionalism, bureaucracy, reporting or competition. An example of this figure shows that this was possible in the 20th century. I am convinced that this is also possible today. In European tradition we have excellent patterns and traditions. Benedict Spinoza, one of the prominent philosophers of the 17th century, was a grinder and worked on stone grinding. Leibniz was a diplomat. Among the philosophers there were also many monks, priests. Ludwig Wittgenstein, one of the most outstanding philosophers of the 20th century, was... It's actually hard to tell who he was. A little teacher and a little lumberjack who actually just brushed up on academic life. Ladies and gentlemen, this example is truly excellent. Congratulations to the family. You can be proud of that character. Congratulations to the initiators of today's event. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u5	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a draft resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birthday. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? I'm asking for a vote. We'll get the results back in a minute. Please give me the results. 61 senators voted, 60 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birth. I ask Professor Stefania Giedrys-Kalemba to approach the presidential table. I'd like to present the Professor's resolution. [[Applause]] You're welcome. We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Vote for the room: Break...]] Do you want me to announce a recess? Good. I'm calling a four-minute recess until 9.20. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 16 to 9 minutes 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u6	Here we go. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 743, and the report of the Commission In print No 743 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u7	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The committee was working on... [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come ……]] But there's no... It's already on. The Commission dealt with this law in response to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which challenged on 8 June 2016... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...compatibility of the provisions of the Act on driving vehicles with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Gentlemen of the Senators, please keep your conversations quiet because we do not hear the Senator rapporteur.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Even I can't hear him, and I'm sitting next to him.]] [[Yes, you're welcome.]] ...and the New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This applies in particular to the driving licence test This is usually a category B driving licence test that is valid as a verification of the qualifications of drivers to drive. In particular, it is a part of the practical examination in which a person is obliged to prove his ability to move a vehicle. These vehicles should be made available by the Polish state, by voivodships in examination centres. In practice, people with disabilities have so many diseases that it is practically impossible to adapt one vehicle to all the conditions that a person wishing to carry a vehicle may encounter. However, such an examination is possible by the provisions of the Act which say that a disabled person with illnesses can try and perform this part of the exam on his own vehicle prepared by him. The Polish State is obliged to assist these people in this. For today's benefit is that the fee for conducting this exam, PLN 140, is treated with a 50% discount. The Constitutional Tribunal found that this 50%... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr and Mrs Senators, we do not hear the rapporteur, you are talking too loudly. Thank you.]] The Constitutional Tribunal found that this 50% discount on this amount of PLN 140 is far from sufficient, de facto quote It's fake. In other words, it does not correspond to the reality, the actual cost of adapting the vehicle to the diseases of people with disabilities. Consequently, a senate initiative was launched in response to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal proposing that the fee should be abolished in the case of persons with disabilities with a medical certificate stating that they can drive a motor vehicle after adapting it to the type of disease where the examination is carried out by the vehicle of those persons. In addition, the Act requires the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs to designate from among the organisational units subordinate to or supervised by him, who will maintain an online database of information on vehicles adapted to the type of disability. This database will indicate the training centre for drivers at the disposal of the vehicle. In other words, people with special conditions who wish to apply for a category B driving licence will be able to choose from the information from this database the centre in which the vehicle is located to carry out the practical part of the test without bearing the cost. In practice, these costs range from a few to several thousand, and relate to the adaptation of a private vehicle before these people are able to drive it, i.e. they will obtain a category B driving licence. Thank you very much. And I will say that this was another session of the Senate Committee on the subject, which dealt with the issue, because because it was a senate presentation, this subject was consulted, this matter was consulted with the environments of people with disabilities, with those responsible for conducting exams, as well as with the automotive engineering institutes that deal with these topics from the mechanical point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u8	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Slugocki has requested a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I am extremely concerned that Members rejected the amendment tabled at second reading, namely that the Minister responsible for Social Security designates the operator of the online database of vehicles adapted to the type of disability. What does that mean? That means that people taking the exam are supposed to be looking for these vehicles on their own. Who will now, in the light of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, operate such a vehicle base that allows disabled persons to pass examinations? This situation, this attitude just seems completely incomprehensible to me. So my question is this. Perhaps you talked to the committee about this. So who's gonna run this base? Is anybody ever gonna run this base? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u10	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u11	Yeah, totally... I don't think it's quite like that. I mean, the minister is obliged to run this base and will run it, as I recall, through the organisation of PIMOT, i.e. Industrial Automotive Technology Institute. And this institution will be responsible for running this base. [[Can I have another question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u12	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u13	Thank you very much. I understand, Senator, that there will be an entity who will run this base, but I have a question. As I understand it, this base will be available to traffic improvement centres, which will be charged for a fee, the costs of which only and only they will bear... Who will bear the cost of using the vehicle for the exam? Because, I understand, in the light of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, they will not be burdened by a disabled person who will have to... Because otherwise, of course, because of her disability, she won't be able to pass this exam. Who's gonna cover those costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u14	I mean, the Court didn't decide that... it wasn't the Court that decided, the Constitutional Tribunal gave a judgment on the non-compliance of the rules with the Constitution. [[Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.]] And he didn't decide anything here. And the proposed amendment to the Act assumes that people with disabilities will be completely exempt from the charge, which, in fact... That's 140 zlotys. With regard to the costs of changing the components of the car to allow people with illnesses to move it... Let's make a deal, it's a small amount. So there won't be any fees here. One of the senators asked during the committee meeting whether the base we are talking about would be an open base. Because just because she's online doesn't mean she has to be open. Well, I have been given a clear assurance that this will be an open base. [[Can I have another one, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u15	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u16	I'm very sorry, Mr. Senator, but that's not what I'm asking. I ask who will bear the cost of lending a vehicle on which a disabled person will be able to pass the test. And I perfectly understand the ruling of the Constitutional Court. You focused on the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and made me aware of what it was all about, and my question is whether at the meeting of the committee in which you participated. 'Cause I understand you've been involved since you're reporting, Mr. Senator, 'cause there was a discussion about who's gonna be paying the rent on these vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u17	I mean, a disabled person who... Maybe it's a specific question... The disabled person will not bear the costs. There are centers... [[I'm asking who?]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Can you help the senator?]] If I may... just a moment... If I may answer that question, then... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Can I help you?]] Mr. Minister, you'll have... of course, of course you will. The Minister has more knowledge about this. There was no such question at the committee meeting. The Minister will answer that question. As far as I know, the centers run these... It will not be a question of renting such a vehicle, it will be a question of identifying the centre where such a vehicle is. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: The costs will be borne by the provincial road traffic centres.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u18	Minister, I will give you the floor at the right time. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] You're asking Senator Gazweda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u19	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as I understand the essence of this bill, with all due support, I have this technical question. The Act provides that the driving of an examination may take place in the vehicle of that disabled person. Therefore, as I understand it, this database will allow you to first find out from among the centres that will carry out the test, one in which there is a suitable vehicle, and if there is no such vehicle, then the vehicle of this disabled person will be adapted to the needs of the examination. How? Is this gonna happen? If this was the subject of the committee's deliberations, I'd ask for information. Because there are costs and procedures related to this issue as well. If you could get a closer look at the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u20	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u21	This was the subject of an earlier committee meeting when it was just explained how cars were being processed. That's 100%. auto cars, they have automatic gearboxes, that's the basis, only such cars are friendly to people with diseases. And in practice, those who decide to take the exam, assuming success, are preparing their private car to pass the exam. In other words, private costs are borne. They are sometimes co-financed by various state institutions, because there are also opportunities. But these individuals personally bear the cost of taking the exam, quoting, risking and possibly passing the exam. And in practice, they spend as long as they pass, because not passing the exam doesn't prevent them from taking it again. I'll be honest with you, from my personal family experience, I know a person who's passed 13 times and passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u22	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u23	Thank you. A very good initiative, especially when it comes to renting equipment, but also a very good question of Senator Slugocki, who spoke about the operation of the rental company. Who will bear these costs? But it's not just the rental costs, it's the adaptation costs, the certification of this equipment. So this is about the certification of this equipment, because this person will be moving in public traffic and the equipment must be even better prepared than the factory one, from the tailor, so to speak. And that's a big cost. This disability may vary. You mentioned an automatic transmission. Okay, but because of the lack of leg, it's there with the gas... and other auditory stuff... right? That's why Senator Slugocki asked such an important question. I'd ask if you couldn't answer, maybe the minister... Will WORD get the money for that, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u24	Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u25	I mean. These are the centers that work. And they are already functioning today, not assuming that there are not enough people in one of the resorts, for example. They're taking the test. That would mean they're going bankrupt. No, this is an institution that functions, which has continuity, which is today and - If you have to. It will be financed by the State. Today there is no need, and such a problem did not arise, it is purely illusory. However, it is true, and the senator is right, that at the first meeting of the committee, at which it was discussed, very interestingly, colorfully specialist in car equipment with certified equipment It's hard, too. Which has all the design powers to change, however, the complicated mechanism, which is the passenger car... He's doing it in accordance with the rules, and it's not trivial at all. It's a very complicated procedure. And you're right to say it's difficult. This is what Polish countries are doing, which, as we know, is strong and which is simply doing just fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u26	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! One last question from me. The entire bill is absolutely worthy of support, and it's a good thing we're working on it. However, I'm concerned about the last paragraph in the material prepared by the Senate Legislative Office, Mr. Senator. That's what I came out of. The Members rejected the amendment tabled at second reading that the Minister responsible for Social Security should designate the operator of the online database of vehicles adapted to the type of disability. We said that there would be an appropriate entity to run this base, and my question is this: will this entity be identified by name? Will it be written in the bill? Will it be a commitment... [[Voice from the room:... setup.]] ...the setup?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u28	Mr. Marshal, this is a matter of knowing the provisions of a particular bill and, to be honest, I feel a little embarrassed. I don't know her by heart, but now... If Mr. Marshal gives me a moment, I'll get to the text of the bill and try to read if it's there... [[Please give me...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Grzesiek, here you go.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[The senator went and did not go. A little culture.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, the senator has gone.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Art. Point 1 (6) of the Act states that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs shall designate, from among the organisational units subordinate to or supervised by him, an entity competent to maintain and update the online database referred to in paragraph 1. 5, and provides, from the part of the budget of the State to which it is the authorising officer, resources for its operation. [[Thank you very much.]] But I agree that such a provision in the description of the course of legislative work may cause some concern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u29	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Actually, it's my question... You just gave me an answer. And that question you're talking about... Wouldn't it be worth taking a legislative initiative in this regard? Because I see that our project has already been introduced to the Sejm, which has been forwarded to the Committee on Infrastructure. Wouldn't it be worthwhile to work on clarifying some of the issues, some of the records that are very vague? Wouldn't the senator think of some legislative initiative that would clarify these records? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u32	Such questions were raised during the committee meeting. Such doubts were expressed by the senators, in fact, regardless of their orientation, their views. However, we have come to the conclusion that the records discussed here are sufficient. Besides, these are provisions proposed and supported by the opposition senators, so we are unanimous on technical matters. Since there's a technical correctness here, we've decided it's a proper and sufficient record. [[It's not about the opposition, Mr. Marshal, it's about one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u33	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u34	It's not about the opposition, God forbid, because there's nothing between us here. It's just that I'm in touch with a girl who's been waiting three years for an exam. She's disabled. And I guess that's the difference. Someone's got a problem with that, and they have to deal with it. It's not a question of political divisions. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I agree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u35	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u36	Thank you. I was just asking about the situation, as if the area, those with disabilities, who will benefit from the so-called. rental companies and this And you were right to answer. Who's gonna finance this? And now I'm thinking about a different area, a situation like this when a disabled person can turn his car into one of those things. And there's also an answer in my question. As you know, equipment, various orthopedic equipment, but not only, are refinanced from the National Health Fund. And my question is this: is it written in the bill that remake your own car . which serves to learn how to drive and then to use it can be refinanced from the health fund as well as the purchase of other equipment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u37	Please. [[And if that's not the case, then I suggest you write it down. But not here in the Senate anymore, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u38	Mr. Senator, I'm looking at the bill... Well, there's no record of that. If you submit an amendment, the committee will probably gather to consider it. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u39	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, participates in the deliberations. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Yes.]] Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government was very enthusiastic about the Senate's initiative to allow people with disabilities to operate in the world of people with disabilities, i.e. to drive cars. I would just like to say that we are still talking about the fact that people with disabilities who have adapted the car themselves for the exam and for later driving will be exempt from this charge. I will just explain that, of course, the position of the government was prepared for the project, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2017. The Sejm adopted this law at the fiftieth ninth meeting of the Sejm. If you have any questions, of course, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u41	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki, you're welcome. Then you're Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, the question is in line with this convention, which I formulated in my questions to the Senator rapporteur. You raise an interesting and disturbing issue at the same time. Namely, the exemption from the fee applies only to those persons. You are right here, of course, because you are moving in the matter of the law, which should change a bit of the amendment of Senator Rulewski, adapted their car to enable them to drive it. The question is therefore different: how high will this fee be for people with disabilities using a car on the basis of the operator you listed? And is there any possibility... 'Cause I don't know if there's a relationship between a full-time and a disabled person's fee, but is this charge for a disabled person due to another construction of this car, will, don't give God, higher, or are these equivalent, identical charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u43	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u44	If you don't mind... Today, according to my knowledge, people with disabilities have borne 50% of these costs. We're going a little further and we're releasing them from the entire fee. According to my knowledge today the cost of the whole exam for a disabled person is 280 PLN and after taking into account 50% This is PLN 140. We release the disabled person who adapted the car to his disability for the exam and subsequent operation, with the fee. She won't bear such a cost. Unfortunately, I have a lack of knowledge as to whether the disabled person's exam is in some correlation with the full-performance exam. I can write that question in writing... [[You're welcome.]] ...answer, because I don't have that kind of knowledge today. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u45	You're asking Senator Gazweda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In addition to the question I asked earlier... I understand that a vehicle adapted for a disabled person can be taken for the exam that this disabled person gives. It is understandable that the entire adaptation process by the accredited body must meet the safety requirements. I also understand that if there is a vehicle in the database that will enable this test, this vehicle will be delivered from this base in some way, whether by this person or by an organizational unit. What if there's no such vehicle? The normal test shall be carried out in such a way that on the right hand side there is a position that allows the examination to be carried out. And that is what I am asking: will these vehicles have to undergo such a procedure to adapt to this exam, enabling it to be carried out safely? I don't know if the Minister understands me. The normal car has 2 stations for its operation, which is that which allows the tested driver to drive the vehicle, and on the other hand, which allows to control the course of the exam, because it is an exam during normal traffic on the road. And the other person can use the clutch and the brake pedal just to be safe... [[Mr. Senator, we know all about this. I'm sure the Minister will too, so maybe he'll answer now.]] Sorry about that. But the point is, is it going to be information, or is it going to have to be this adapted vehicle?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u47	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! A car that goes on the road and to which an examination is carried out shall not be fit to carry out such an examination. He must be completely, fully prepared. That's what the different rules are talking about, isn't it? [[Can I ask you one more question?]] Yeah, of course I do. I would just like to add, by the way, that voivodship road traffic centres also cooperate with the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and this adaptation of cars is co-financed by PFRON. So it's a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u48	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law introduces only 2 amendments: it relieves costs and creates this register. In fact, the Constitutional Court was simply about making it possible for disabled people, of course, to participate in road traffic. And now I'm going back to those vehicles. There could be three cases here. Suppose the owner or driver of the vehicle is disabled at the moment. Well, maybe he can use this base. Theoretically, a car can be rented e.g. from the driver training centre. Driver training centres, if they want to train disabled people, must have adapted cars. And there is a third entity, namely the Voivodship Road Traffic Centre, which carries out the exam. And that is what my question is related to: do voivodship road traffic centres have cars adapted to those most common needs of people with disabilities who have various problems, e.g. Leg weakness? Well, it's clear that these people have to do all the work manually, with their hands. Do these centres have cars like this, and don't you think they should if they don't? They should be adapted mainly... The more that such a car must be double adapted: first, to the disabled It's a remark about Senator Gavyda's research. And secondly, for the exam. Maybe it would have to be... I don't know, maybe not so much an obligation as to encourage the voivodship centers to simply adapt two vehicles to the most common diseases of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u50	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the senator's question, I would like to say this: that is why we are creating this base of institutions that have such cars. It could be WORD, and training centers. The owners can be different institutions, and that's why this base is being built. We ask the Minister of Economy to build this base through PIMOT and make these cars available. Of course, it would be desirable for WORD to have such cars, but I suspect that this is beyond their financial capabilities. Well, the cost of exams would go up again. Right? So that's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u52	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u53	I'm still digging up this topic I've been asking Senator Pekkis about, which is, I think, a fundamental issue. They won't all be served by WORD, not by the state, but there are people with disabilities who would like to invest, they bought a car, only that if they bought a adapted car... My question is therefore: don't you think that the adaptation of such a car should be supported by the state, which is to be financed from the National Health Fund? Is there a solution in this bill? And will you support such an amendment? That was the third question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u54	If you don't mind... Of course, the government would very much like to support such an amendment, but there is no such thing in the Act. We should also consider what I was just talking about, so what is the participation of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in this process. Right? So it would have to be checked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u55	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u56	The question I asked earlier was the last one. I apologize to you, Minister, and to you, but this is a very important issue, also in the context of Senator Czerwiński's statement. I think, Minister, by continuing this thread, that it is worth it at national level... The question is whether the Minister of Infrastructure should not be the beneficiary of such measures and whether PFRON should not create such a budget line. After all, we know the most common diseases. Perhaps these measures would only partially cover the cost of manufacturing or adapting such cars. It would be good if there were different cars in various voivodship traffic centres. After all, there can be an exchange between these entities. Right? The availability of these cars would be much greater. Of course, we can take such a legislative initiative as the Senate as a group of senators, but the question is whether it would be easier for the resort to come up with such an initiative, after having consulted PFRON before, with the Minister of Family, Work, Social Policy and possibly with the Voivodship Centres of Road Traffic. You could arrange such a trilateral meeting and try to approach this problem in a systematic manner. I think that this would be an even more far-reaching solution than what we are looking at today, which is a consequence of de facto not of the authoreflection of the legislator, but of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's sad, I want to be blunt. I think this proposal is very interesting and worth considering. I don't know what you think, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u58	Nothing to add, nothing to say. I think the initiative is worthy of support and we will take on this responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u59	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you beautifully.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Slugocki. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Libicki will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that this law that we are debating today is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and it was our initiative, because we are the Chamber that has undertaken to implement the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'd like to say two things. First of all, I would like to thank all the institutions and bodies involved throughout the legislative process for implementing this law. I would like to thank the Ministry, the NGOs, but in a special way I would like to thank the representatives of the voivodship traffic centres because they behaved very noblely in this matter. It turned out that this amount from which we release disabled people using their own car on the exam was not really large and in the work of the committee the representatives of the WORDs declared that they were ready to cover this amount with their own resources. And it was a very nice gesture. I would like to say here that the environment of people with disabilities and I personally value it very much. Of course, it is neither a large amount nor a group of people is large, but it is good that the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out this and that today we are fixing it. And that's note one. And here's the second note. Since Senator Rulewski has tabled an amendment, I would like to say that we are implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment in this particular area. In this respect, in order to eliminate the fee for part of the practical driving test for those persons who use their own vehicle on the examination. Therefore, we here go a little beyond the matter that the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out to us. Besides, the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities may not be every year, but it is generally involved in financing the purchase of vehicles, so here we will mix two matters. Because if we were to bring this in, this law would suddenly include a fund and we're going to talk about a slightly different issue than the one concerned. So if I could appeal for this, I would ask Senator Rulewski to withdraw this amendment. Alternatively, we can try to regulate this with a separate legislative initiative. I am very much in favour of this, but the point is not to obscure the image here and, so to speak, to refer strictly to what the Constitutional Tribunal was talking about. So that I support the committee's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. I thank Senator Rulewski for his noble initiative, but I think it would be better if we settled this case. 'Cause she's worth taking care of. In a separate mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u61	Thank you, Senator. At the request of the Civic Platform Club, I will announce a recess until 11.30 a.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 00 to 11 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u62	I'm reopening the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: the second reading of the draft resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u63	I object to the introduction of a draft resolution, so to speak, Hungarian in the manner in which it was done. I see no reason why the draft resolution, and this content, should be included on the Senate's agenda today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u64	Okay, so we're gonna vote. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Just a moment, Mr. Marshal, I'll just get there...]] Okay, we'll wait. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 43 were in favour, 17 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] I state that the Senate has accepted the proposal I have made and that we have completed the agenda by these two items. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor... [[Senator Flork.]] ...Senator Flork. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Yes. Mr. Marshal, I'll be grading...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u65	All right. High Izbo! Senator Filip Libicki was the good spirit of this law on the amendment of the vehicle management law, and he is mostly to be thanked for the fact that we are proceeding over this law. This is a short amendment, but, as it turned out, we had to devote a lot of time to the discussion. This bill is actually two points. She has already gone through the whole legislative path in the Sejm, and it should therefore be taken into account that the amendments that we are going to want to introduce into this law may not go beyond the scope of the law, because that is the result of the provisions. So we can change only in this respect, which is included in this law. What's the bill about? There was a lot of confusion here, so I would like to stress once again that this is about two things. First thing... Or maybe the other one... I'll start with the first one. The online database of centres that have cars for exams. It was mentioned here that there was an amendment in the Sejm so that another minister, the minister responsible for social affairs, could run this base. The Act states that this is to be done by the Minister responsible for economic affairs. This amendment did not pass in the Sejm, and therefore it remains that this base is to be led by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. At the committee meeting, the Minister said who is likely to run this base, PIMOT. Here's the question of whether this is exactly a happy deal, etc., but this is another matter for discussion. That's the one thing. It's a base. I'll tell you why she's needed. The second thing is the fees. This bill only applies to one case. It does not apply to a category B theoretical driving test for disabled persons who must have a adapted car for the examination, because in this case there is a fee of PLN 30 per examination and this fee must be paid. The important thing is that the disabled person was 50% exempted from the practical exam fee, which means instead of 140 PLN paid 70 PLN. This bill changes that, such a person will not pay those 70 PLN, only the exam will take place in the voivodship road centre without charge. Of course, the regional traffic centres will bear these costs, because the examiner must carry out this exam, but there will be no charge for a simple reason. Well, the tests of people with disabilities, which must have cars adapted to their diseases, is very little, that's probably a hundred percent a year. So the fact that these people will not have to pay the fees, these 70 PLN, is an improvement for people with disabilities. But the question of an examination car is quite different. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to passing an exam in voivodship traffic centres by people who need to adapt this car... Of course, they can buy a car earlier, without having passed the exam yet, they can try to adapt it to the requirements, because the voivodship traffic centres do not have cars adapted to this type of test because the requirement to have a whole range of these cars that would have to be adapted to the relevant diseases would be impossible to meet. Therefore, there is a solution that the person who passes the test can, of course, adjust the car he buys earlier and may come for the test by such a car. But they don't usually do that. As a rule, they use cars in this resort where they learned to drive, mostly because they had to study somewhere and this car had to be adapted. Therefore, these people had to bear the costs of renting this car anyway. If they've come to their own, they don't pay any costs, and if they rent a car from a driving training centre for the exam, they have to pay for it. At the committee meeting we said that these costs are higher than the costs of exams, that they amount to PLN 200 Of course, there's another way, but that's not in the bill. If someone wants to pass the exam for this reason, that they bear the costs, receive funding, that is PFRON, there are other ways to try to receive this funding. But the law itself exempts this person only from this fee of PLN 70. So we have the opportunity or have our own car and then we don't pay, or have a car that's not at the disposal of the passerby, which needs to be rented, because the voivodship traffic centres are not able to have cars adapted for all kinds of diseases. And that's basically the case. Now there are about 9 thousand training centers in Poland, driving lessons. Not all centres have cars adapted to teach disabled people who have certain diseases. Depending on my condition, I need to find a driving training center that's gonna have a car like this so I can take this course. Therefore, this online database is needed. Up until now, it has probably been that these people have been doing well, because as far as training centers are concerned, the register is kept by the governor, it is supervised by the voivode, but it runs the governor, and it was possible to obtain such information there. But what's important is that these diseases are different so that there's an Internet base, and that everyone can find a place where they can find a resort with a car like that that, where they can take the test. Since there are 9 000 centres in Poland, not all such centres lead, as many as they run, you will need to find and choose the right center in which you would like to pass this exam. So to recap: this bill is very simple and very short. The first point is the register of centres, so that if I want to pass the exam, I know where I can possibly report, a register that will be updated and kept by the minister responsible for economic affairs. That's one thing. And the second point is that the person passing the exam will not bear this fee of PLN 70. And that's the whole bill. It is practically impossible to make any changes to this law, because it concerns only those two cases that have been discussed. The rewrite went through the Sejm, went back to the Senate. I think that all of us who are in the Senate really care about having as many people with disabilities pass exams here we're talking about a category B driving licence, which is a driving test. • so that there are as many of them as possible to encourage them and that they do not bear the cost. You could move on, because since we fired them from those 70 zlotys first it was 50% , now there will be nothing, i.e. zero, you could e.g. consider whether to exempt them also from the theoretical examination fee, which amounts to PLN 30. Well, you could go further, but I am convinced that this bill will be examined in this regard, but still to support people with disabilities when it comes to funding, to look for new paths. Well, mostly these are the opportunities to benefit from PFRON. But you have to do everything you can to make sure that as many people with disabilities can use these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Me?]] [[You're saved...]] [[About what?]] [[Voice from the room: No, he has tabled an amendment.]] [[Ah, correction. I'm sorry, it's my fault.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal to Senator Rulewski. [[Voice from the room: And the speech was given by Maciej Łuczak.]] And you made a speech to the minutes, Senator Luczak. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 742, and the report of the Commission In print No 742 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 6 March this year, we held a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, at which we examined amendments to the Law on Water Law. The Act introduces the following amendments to the Law of 20 July 2017 on Water Law. First of all, cases initiated but not completed before the date of entry into force of the said Act concerning decisions referred to in the Act of 3 October 2008 on the making available of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, specifically concerning 4 such cases: first, decisions on building permits, decisions on the approval of a construction project and decisions on the authorisation of the renewal of works, issued under the Act of 7 July 1994; second, decisions on the authorisation of road investment under the Law of 10 April 2003 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public roads investments; third, decisions on the authorisation of public airport investments within the meaning of the Law of 12 February 2009 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public airport investments; fourthly, decisions on the authorisation of investment under the Law of 8 July 2010 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public roads investments shall apply before 1 January 2018. In addition to the article. 545 of the Law of 20 July 2017 on Water Law is introduced to lay down rules on the handling of cases initiated and not completed before 1 January 2018, as regards the imposition of administrative fines and the deferment of their payment and the proceeds from those penalties. The existing provisions apply to these matters. Within a period of not more than 36 months from the date of entry into force of this Act, the Provincial Environmental Inspector shall issue an application to the European Parliament and to the Council for a period of up to 36 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. On the basis of the existing provisions in force prior to the date of entry into force of this Law, administrative fines for exceeding the conditions laid down in water licences and authorisations for integrated conditions relating to the quantity of water collected and the quantities of waste water collected, their condition, composition, mineral percentage reduction of concentrations of substances in waste water and the weight of substances in waste water discharged per unit of weight of raw material used, material, fuel or product produced which occurred until 31 December 2017. In addition, the existing provisions apply to cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, not mentioned in the previous provisions, except that the higher authority within the meaning of the Law Thus, the purpose of this law is to amend the provisions which were in force before the date of entry into force of the Water Law, i.e. in the above cases. before 1 January 2018 This procedure is due to the fact that there have been many interpretation errors, which caused confusion and informational chaos. Through this amendment, the legislator intends to straighten out the legal situation and bring the rules into line with the current situation. I'm asking the High Senate to adopt a bill without amendment. Six senators voted at the committee meeting: 4 were in favour of the bill without amendments, 2 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Piotr Florek.]] Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this law of water law is a very fresh law. The question is whether you discussed it at the committee meeting about why this law did not immediately accept the principle that the existing rules apply to pending and pending cases. Wasn't it going to happen? What suddenly happened that so quickly, just after the bill was passed, it had to be amended? Could you give me a broader explanation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This was not discussed at the meeting of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u71	Are there any more questions? [[There isn't.]] I don't see any calls. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A brief amendment, so a short statement. We support this amendment. It is essentially orderly, it does not change much, but it is necessary for clarity of the rules, especially from the point of view of entrepreneurs, in the context of ongoing proceedings and possible penalties. This concerns not only the imposition of penalties, but also, and perhaps even above all, the possibility of sacrificing the already ongoing environmental inspections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u73	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The company or institution Polskie Waters employs more than 5 thousand employees. It turns out that none of these employees Unless something's changed in the last few days. There is no employment contract and, according to the Labour Code, it is not possible to enter into work before signing the employment contract. This is breaking the basic provisions of labour law. Are these people, these people who come to work, employees of Polish Vodka? What's going on out there? I have submitted this issue to the State Labour Inspection because workers or rather non-workers who go there have come to my office to apply for work, but do not have important contracts. In such a situation, according to the Labour Code, as I said, they cannot take up work at all. This amendment to the Labour Code was in 2016. They shouldn't apply for work before receiving employment contracts. How should this situation be treated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. All people who work in Polish Waters have employment contracts. [[Since when do they have these contracts?]] All the people who work have employment contracts. There wasn't a situation where... [[So in the last two days, these contracts...]] There was no situation for an employee to take a job without an employment contract. Unless these are people who did not work in Polish Waters. [[Polish waters were created on 1 January. Right?]] All persons working in Polish Waters... [[So the day before that, employment contracts had to be made.]] ...have and have up-to-date employment contracts. [[So all these people have misled me?]] I can't relate to that because I don't know the situation. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. In addition to transitional provisions, 1 material provision is also amended. This is the need for the value of the property to be determined by the property assessor. What does that tell you? Is it because this, I don't know, would seriously endanger the procedure?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u78	Thank you very much. This is essentially about shortening time. In addition, this document, in our opinion, is not needed. The valuer's submission does not bring anything new to the proceedings. The documents that are presented in the procedure are sufficient and allow to assess the potential value of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u79	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u80	Thank you. Minister, were these rules so vague That the Law of 20 July 2017 on Water Law must be amended now, and to such a small extent? Why is that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u81	I confirm that this change is necessary and necessary for both Polish water and companies that are parties to the proceeding. It will allow for uniformity of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u82	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am surprised by the reply concerning employment contracts, because the information that reached me was such that employees or persons who are related to Polish Waters do not have such contracts. The proof of this was supposed to be, among other things. I don't know what these structures are called, because they're a little different now than they used to be. I don't know if it's a sink or a basin. All persons who are potentially employees You're saying they have employment contracts. They prepare decisions, but these decisions are not signed because they do not have employment contracts. They can't make decisions like they used to. They prepare draft decisions which are imported or sent to Gdansk. There's a director who's been appointed to his post. In his case, the nature of the contract... He is the only one signing all decisions concerning the whole river basin, the water catchment area managed by Gdansk. Here's the thing. But if, as you say, these people actually have contracts, then there's something abnormal about the fact that this is the formula of these workers' work. That's the first question. Second question. I'm asking them, by the way. I have also written a statement to the Minister on this matter. This is the issue of charging for small fish ponds. They had a legal water law permit and were exempt from fees if they complied with the rules. But it turned out that in Gdansk small fish ponds began to charge quite high fees, in the order of twenty few thousand zlotys. Is this the way it is, or has it been withdrawn from charging these charges? I'm asking because the arguments that fish pond owners received... They were told, "We will charge you a fee, you will pay the money, and if you do not pay, you will appeal, for you are entitled to the court's way of explaining this matter." Unfortunately, it was a common practice, supposedly incompatible with the decisions previously issued to joint owners. Is this practice still being applied, or have you withdrawn from all of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u84	Thank you very much. I'm referring to the first line. I understand it's more about power of attorney than about employment contracts... [[Job contracts. Definitely employment contracts.]] ...and the question of signing decisions at different levels. Indeed, there are different categories of decisions that can be issued at different levels. Some are issued at the water catchment level and some at the regional management level. E.g. issues relating to tariffs relating to water and waste water shall be dealt with only by the directors at regional level. And maybe that's the situation here. As for the contracts, all I can say is repeat the declaration that the employees have contracts. If there are any situations that the senator knows about, please go to the president or to us, and we will certainly take care of it. However, I'm telling you this with stubbornness. There are no such situations. As far as the joint situation is concerned, I don't know exactly about the kazuzu, so we could use a description here. This is certainly not the practice used in Polish Waters. If there was a single case somewhere, and the senator was reacting, it was definitely solved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u85	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you very much.]] No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for your answers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the senator... [[Senator Secretary Waldemar Sługocki: No one signed up...]] No senator signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the meeting... But there's an amendment... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Was there an amendment tabled? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Civil Records, the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing Public Tasks and certain other laws and the Law on Civil Status Acts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 747 and the report of the Commission In print No 747 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting on 13 March, the Commission dealt with the Act amending the Act on Civil Records, the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws and the Law on Civil Status Acts. The Senate Legislative Office submitted two comments to the bill. The first remark was a technical remark, consisting in replacing the word "or" with the word "or "or." The second point was such a remark not supported by a specific amendment. The attention was... about some legislative correctness. That is how your legislator defined it, and in this regard she had reservations. The bill amends a few laws. It is generally intended to serve to introduce... more and more areas to be covered by the information and IT system of citizens in the 21st century. It is about the increasing spread of digital techniques. When it comes to different actions... I can say, for example. it will be possible to make electronic statements on the choice of the name of the child, it will be possible to obtain electronic acts, e.g. the birth certificate of the child. There will also be an opportunity. And it's like a new competence to assign PESEL numbers to parents in the birth certificate. You will also be able to obtain temporary check-in certificates via the internet. This will, of course, be done using certain security features of an electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. That's one thing. And the second thing that aroused a little controversy. Namely, it is a change... to extend access to the civil status file for the services, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service. Two senators took part in the discussion on the bill. Mr Zientarski asked why this draft law, which should not be controversial, was controversial in the Sejm, which was also reflected in the vote, because I think 284 Members were in favour and about 140 were against it. The representative of the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Digitalization, the Deputy Minister, explained that these controversys were about changing the way in which access to the civil status file was obtained. And that was the main reason why it aroused controversy in the Seym. The second person to speak was Senator Florek, who also spoke on the scope of the duties. The Senator has taken over the amendment of the Legislative Bureau and has also tabled some amendments himself. They were at a committee meeting as if they were constantly modified by the Ministry and with the participation of the legislator. There was a request for adoption of this law without amendments, which received a majority of votes: 3 senators were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. Mr President, Senator Florek has tabled a minority request, including these amendments, including an amendment taken over by your legislator. Some of the amendments tabled by Senator Flork were positive, and on this 1 amendment. I don't know if it was the 1st amendment, or if it was the 2nd amendment, because it was as if they were still being determined how to formulate these provisions relating to the access of services to these files. The Ministry submitted a negative position. Finally, I would like to emphasise what the Minister has also emphasised. I want it to sound good. This is not about, as the Minister has assured us, any extension of the remit of the special forces. This is about changing the way these files are accessed. To date, it has been carried out on such a basis that the service must have applied in writing to the head of the civil status office to provide certain information that is of interest to the service in connection with the conduct of certain operations and operations. From now on, this will all be automated, and it will take place on the basis of a certain data transmission. These services will be able to download specific information, but of course there will also be a procedure involved. It's not gonna be done on a voluntary basis. The point is that the way these data are collected has changed, but the scope of the data collected by the special services has not changed. That's it. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u87	Thank you very much. I would ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u88	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A minority request has been filed. I'll discuss it briefly because I think it's quite important and it's worth taking some time. The Act amends the Civil Records Act It's an art. As Senator Frost has just said, these are important, important matters. Of course, we all support the use of these technologies, the registration of the birth of the child, the online handling, the obtaining of various documents, etc. Of course, we all support it, that's the right direction. The Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws is also amended. 2 of the Act, and of the Law on Civil Status It's an art. 3 laws. And now I'm going to quickly discuss all the amendments one at a time. Amendment 1 concerns the amendment to the title of the law in connection with the deletion of the article. 2. The new wording of the Act is a law on amending the Civil Records Act and the Law on Civil Status Acts. She fell out of that name. I'll be right back. The amendment of the Act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and certain other laws. The second amendment concerns Article. Point 1, point 4, paragraph 4. 5. Senator Frost has already signaled it here. It was a proposal to amend the Legislative Bureau that I took over. The point is that the words "or signature" are replaced by "or signature." Certificates issued in the form of an electronic document shall bear a qualified electronic signature or a confirmed signature, i.e. a trust profile of ePUAP, only that it shall bear one of these signatures. In this case, a separate alternative should be used, by using the "or" coherent. At the committee meeting, the Minister's opinion was also positive in this respect. The third amendment concerns the deletion of Article. 2. It was also the Legislative Bureau that raised this issue. I felt the same way about it. According to paragraph 92. One amending law covers only one law. Deviation from this principle is only permitted if there are undoubtedly thematic links between the amended laws. This law amends the Civil Records Act, the Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws and the Law on Civil Status Act. In the case of the amendment of the Civil Status Records Act and of the Civil Status Act, there are thematic links between the two legal acts, but the amendment of the Act of 10 January 2014 amending the Act on the ITisation of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and certain other laws aimed at postponeing the deadline of 15 May 2018 to 30 May 2019, implementing and ensuring the correct functioning of the ICT system serving proceedings before administrative courts, is not linked to either the amendment of the Civil Status Records Act or the amendment of the Civil Status Records Act. Such changes are contrary to the principles of correct legislation. The Minister at the committee meeting said that the government proposal for this change did not include that it was submitted by Members during the procedure of the law in the Sejm. The fourth amendment concerns the deletion in Article. 3 point 1 and modification of point 3. Paragraph 1 adds to the Law on Civil Status Art. 5a as follows: The data from the register of civil status of the Minister responsible for computerization shall be made available as Senator Frost has already mentioned here. - Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Bureau, Military Counterintelligence Service and Military Intelligence Service. Of course, these are to be made available only in terms of their statutory tasks. Access will be by means of data teletransmission devices, of course, once certain conditions have been met and a single request has been submitted to the Minister responsible for IT. The records shall be accessed by the staff of those services. Amendment concerning the addition of Article. 5a was proposed by the coordinator to the special services and not by the Minister for Digitalisation. These services will receive direct access to the entire database, including: Also for important issues, that is, sensitive data. And so far, the law has been enshrined in the article. 5 in Section 3 of the Law on Civil Status Act, that access to the Register of Civil Status has the Minister competent for Information Technology and also the Minister competent for Home Affairs. The consequence of deletion in the article. Point 3 (1) will be amended. 3 pcs. 3 pcs. In point 3 of the Article. 45 words in those entities referred to in Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 is about those entities that I mentioned .. is replaced by the following: And here are all these entities, namely the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the SKW and the SWW. This record shall allow the services concerned access to copies, certificates, data relating to the persons indicated in the register. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 45 In addition to this content, which was previously added: the State Protection Service, the Police, the Border Guard, the Prison Service, as well as the Military Police Department. So these services will also have access to these files on this basis, not on the one that these special forces want. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth amendment concerns the deletion of point 3 in Article. 5, which is the consequence of the deletion of my previous article. 2. After deletion of the article. This point of the Act would have to be deleted. And now for the last amendment, six. It concerns the amendment of the Article. Point 5, 4, i.e. the entry into force of the Act. It is stated in the Act that points 4 and 7 of Article. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. However, the problem is that in Article. 3 does not have point 7. The correct entry is: Art. Points 4 and 6 of Article 3 shall enter into force on 1 June. This amendment was also supported by the Minister at the committee meeting. This error is due to the procedure in the Sejm, because one of the points has been deleted, but this record has not been corrected, which is an obvious error. At the committee meeting, these amendments, including those approved by the Minister, were not voted out because Senator Waldemar Bonkowski proposed to adopt the bill without amendment. Three senators voted in favour of the proposal, against two, one senator abstained. The minority motion submitted by me and Senator Piotr Ziientarski is a clear consequence of this vote. Bottom line, I'm gonna say three more sentences so I don't have to speak anymore. Art. 1 improves the functioning of the records. We're all right to support him. Art. 2 is to be deleted, because this provision should not be included in this law, that is probably clear. Art. 3 needs to be changed. It's about accessing civil status records. PiS wants to control everyone and everything. It's another bill that makes him want full control, after the laws that were adopted, all those laws and personnel, and those that change access... I'm not gonna replace them all because there were a lot of them. Of course, by supporting part of this bill... We can support it if it turns out that this most important point will be removed from the bill and if not, then of course we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u89	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digitalization Karol Okoński: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I would like to stress that this law is in fact conducive to the electronicisation and acceleration, improving contacts at the interface of the state administration to the citizen. This is the essential spirit of this law, so I think it's because of this prism that we should look at it. In addition to the child's birth registration mentioned here, it will allow, as it is included in the information here, also to record, during the transmission of the child's PESEL number, the parents' PESEL numbers, and the storage of this information together will also allow the acceleration and building of new e-services, which will remove the need for certain data from citizens, as they will already be entered in state registers. So that I would ask, through this prism, to look at this law, not through the prism of the aspect mentioned here, to enable the services to access the data. As I stressed, because I said this already at the committee meeting, we do not change the scope of this access, but only change the mode and improve this access. And here at the end... It will also be more tighter, because thanks to the fact that we connect two IT systems, we will have a detailed audit trail available: who when asked about the data. This in the case of the paper process, which was in force until the present time, was simply not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u91	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? Senator Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u92	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question. I agree with your argument that electronicisation will undoubtedly improve the process of relations: the administration of the citizens. But I have a question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 it is mentioned that certificates will be issued in the form of an electronic document and shall be endorsed by a qualified electronic signature or by a signature endorsed by a trusted ePUAP profile. I would therefore like to ask what access to these electronic services looks like in particular parts of the Polish country. Has this level already been unified and if not, is there anywhere else? There are white spots in Poland, which means is this access difficult there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u93	This is a matter which is not directly linked to the law, only generally with the National Wideband Plan and with access to the Internet. These activities, which are undertaken in the framework of the work carried out in connection with the deployment of a broadband network to each holding or at least a network with adequate capacity, are at the moment financed from the first axis of the OP PC project. The intention is that in the coming years, by 2020, this number of stains will significantly decrease. And because there is also wireless access through mobile networks, in practice we can recognise that in a few years, in fact, each citizen will have access to these services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. This answer satisfies me, but I do not agree with the first part of it that this case is not the subject of a law. Because since we're making a bill that allows... Right? I understand that we wouldn't have created the law if there weren't such technological solutions. Since we are creating laws, I understand that we want to provide access to these services. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u95	In this sense, these changes are linked. That's right. [[Sure. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u96	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u97	Thank you. Minister, I mean the amendments, the first amendment. You supported it at the committee meeting, i.e. that the entry should be either or not, and also the last amendment concerning an error in the law, i.e. the provision of These are obvious corrections. I would like you to respond to them because it turns out that there is a motion for a law without amendments, which is with such obvious errors. And I would like you to comment on the principle of legislative technique, Minister. Because the act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and some other laws... The amendment concerns only one case, i.e. the date of entry into force of the Act. It is about shifting the deadline from 15 May to 31 May 2019. And it's an IT system that handles proceedings before administrative courts. So this delay, as I understand it, is to delay computerization, to handle proceedings before administrative courts, right? Is that why we're moving this deadline, as it turns out, by a year and two weeks? I'd like you to respond. For example, these 3 amendments. Do you think that they are legitimate, or should this really be in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u98	As far as these amendments are concerned, let us call it legislative and formal, in my opinion their introduction is not necessary for this project as a whole to function. So in this sense, I don't find them critical... That is, from the perspective of the entry into force of the law, the absence of these amendments will not affect the effectiveness of this law. As to the question of linking the modification of the date of entry into force of the IT system serving the proceedings before administrative courts, this link is due to the fact that the contacts between administration and citizens... The change of date is intended to enable the preparation of a solution that will be of adequate quality, appropriate performance, to ensure an adequate level of safety. Such a solution, as far as I am concerned, would simply not be possible due to the current state of progress. We want to provide a solution that is effective and effective for citizens. Therefore, a change in the date of entry into force of the Act. Well, as I say, it is generally part of the process of digitising public administration, and in this sense I see this connection. Thank you... [[4:6.]] Well, that was my first comment that this change wasn't critical. That's what I think. From the perspective of the interpretation of the law and the effectiveness of the law... From the perspective of passing this bill... So that I will accept any decision of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What shows that the IT system serving proceedings before administrative courts is not yet in operation? Was that deadline, which was in the 2014 Act, too ambitious, or something in the process? Was there piloting? Because maybe it's better to move the deadline if something doesn't work to the full, than then have problems like this with CEPiK 2. That's the first question. Second question. What about this CEPiK 2? Are we gonna be okay... I'll admit, the idea itself is good, but the realization isn't very good anymore. And we're just losing it because of those people who are queuing up in county offices.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u101	The situation may be so similar that, in fact, in the case of the implementation of the CEPiK system due to errors in the software, the process of handling citizens, especially during the first period, has been significantly impeded. And now efforts are being made, both by the Ministry of Digitalization and by subcontractors, i.e. the Central Centre for Informatics, the Polish Securities Printing Works and all other stakeholders, with extensive and close cooperation with the oldities, to systematically correct these errors according to the priorities set with the oldities. As far as I know, because we're also going with the old-age reference visits to find out what the situation is on the first line, there are no such cases at this point. If they are, it's really sporadic. The fact that a matter cannot be settled and that the citizen is simply sent away and invited again. However, due to some delays and the extension of the process, queues have increased in some cases and the number of cases handled may be lower. But we also see that, in general, the number of issues in the area of communication, especially those relating to vehicles, has increased by at least a dozen percent in relation to the previous year. It simply collided with the implementation of a new system with an increased number of cases to be dealt with in offices. So that, taking into account these experiences and the fact that there are problems with the contractor of this system for administrative courts, we are calling for such a decision to postpone the deadline and thus avoid the situation that errors will have to be corrected when the system is implemented, it will be at the production stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u102	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you an additional question. Would it not be possible to adopt such a standard that such projects will always be carried out in a pilot way, i.e. In some institution or group of institutions, on a smaller scale? And only if it works out, then we realize it on a larger scale, not so that we introduce it across the country and it just sits down, among others. because of this large scale.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u103	I mean... With the approach to implementation... Let us remember that as far as the CEPiK project is concerned, we also have the second part associated with the driver's area, the part of the vehicle is implemented, the rest of the driver's part. We are thinking as much as possible about this way, in the period before implementation, when the system is prepared, to simulate on it some actual actions taken in ancient times, so that, let's say, under laboratory conditions, we can pick up certain things that may then cause problems. Therefore, this implementation schedule will be different from that originally planned, also due to the experience gained. That is why the proposed change, which will reach the senators at the right time, but at this moment is at the stage of inter-ministerial consultation. At all, we have such a request. Maybe it'll be a standard for the implementation of systems. In order for such large, complex projects not to set a specific date, but to announce the readiness of the competent minister to implement the system in good time, which allows the rest to be prepared, which simply gives some flexibility in making this final decision to start implementation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u104	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u105	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! This bill is a government project. In particular, as far as the first part of the population record is concerned, all the changes you are proposing are very important. But I'd like to ask you about the article. Two in the bill... Was this a change in the deadline for computerising proceedings before administrative courts, too, your initiative? And if it's about art. 3, regarding the introduction of service-specific access, was that your ministry's initiative, or did someone else report it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u106	As regards the amendment relating to the revision of the deadline for implementing the system serving proceedings before administrative courts, the amendment itself was tabled in committee by the Member. We have responded positively to it, but one of the Members was the initiating party in the legislative process. As regards the functionality related to the provision of teletransmission access to services, this was the change which occurred at the inter-ministerial consultation stage, which was notified at the stage of the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers by the Minister for Coordinator. During the consultation we worked out this final text together, the Council of Ministers adopted the law in this form and directed it further to the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u107	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[It's, it's...]] [[There it is.]] Oh, Senator Frost. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to refer to Senator Flork's statement as rapporteur because it contains words that are false, that we are extending the powers of the services in this law, that the Law and Justice in general want to control everything and... First of all, it's not law and justice, it's the state. Today's PiS rules, someday someone else will rule... Here we introduce some kind of mechanisms that increase... they don't even increase the authority of the service, it's just a little bit different the transfer of data will take place, but the services can get the same data as today. We're getting into these modern techniques, so we're eliminating paper circulation. As the Minister said, and yes, taking this data from the civil status file will leave some electronic trace, which is sometimes even more durable and can be easier to control. But we can't say here that this, I don't know, PiS is going to control somebody more about this bill because it's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u109	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 566 and the committee's report In print No 566 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I took part in the honor of presenting the report in Senate printing No 566 S, concerning printing No 566. The committees discussed this item on 13 February, including the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Marshal sent this submission to the committee on 21 July 2017. I would like to say that this submission aligns the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 20 April 2017, in which the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second sentence of the Act of 14 March 2003 on a national referendum in so far as it excludes the admissibility of the reopening of proceedings and Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The third sentence of the Act of 15 September 2000 on a local referendum in so far as it excludes the admissibility of the reopening of proceedings is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 states that everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court and Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 that the law must not close anybody's judicial path to the investigation of violated freedoms or rights. I would like to remind you that these articles, as regards, respectively, the Local referendum law and the National referendum, concern a situation where, within the meaning of press law, materials relating to the referendum are disseminated in the press, and in particular posters, leaflets, passwords and statements, or other forms of referendum campaign, and contain false information. Anyone whose rights have been violated in this way, as a result of false information being given, of course has the right to refer the matter to the court. Art. 35 deals with a similar problem... The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that in the records he challenged... These records sounded so that... the third sentence of the article. 35 said that there was no appeal at the decision of the Court of Appeal. When a lawsuit was filed with the district court, within 24 hours, the appeal court could be appealed to and the appeal court issued a judgment within 24 hours. Also with regard to the National referendum bill... This provision, which has been challenged, is the second sentence, which states that the decision of the court of appeal does not give rise to a legal remedy. There's an appeal, there's a legal remedy. As far as the definition of these 2 institutions is concerned, what is a legal measure, what is an appeal, the legal measure is a broader concept than an appeal and the legal measure contains all possible measures which the law grants to the entitled party. Of course, we're talking about complaints, appeals. But as you will note what we propose in the case of these contested provisions as regards the submission of the committee, you will note that it is a matter for the judgment to be executed in such a way that those contested provisions, in which the Constitutional Tribunal points out that the right of defence is denied, that this right of defence is closed at the stage of the appeal court, to modify accordingly in such a way that there will now be a provision: the order of the court of appeal, that is to say, which is the end of the investigation process, the judicial process, is not entitled to a cassation complaint. So it is left in the record only and only as far as the legal measure is concerned, the appeal, the cassation action, that is, the action is not entitled to, but in that case all other means of defence which the law grants, i.e., of course, complaints, appeals and all the other means that we can find in the act. In the same way, in the second contested provision, with regard to the national referendum, we put in place a similar solution, i.e. a legal measure and an appeal, we are replacing accordingly with a cassation complaint, so we leave all other solutions, of course. This is how we want this sentence to be executed. Of course, there was a discussion at the committee meeting indicating that, despite the fact that so far it was not possible to appeal against the appeal court's order, because everything in referenda mode, i.e. in electoral mode, took place quickly, and within 24 hours it was possible to file an appeal, within 24 hours, as I said, the appeal court had an obligation to do so, of course it did not prevent us from using Section VI of the Civil Law Code in which we are talking about the reopening of proceedings, and it was, of course, possible in the cases provided for in that section to demand the reopening of proceedings. So that there were no obstacles. With regard to the opinions we have received, I would like to draw attention to 2 opinions. This is the opinion of the Court of Appeal in Warsaw, which was negatively affected by this solution. The Court of Appeal has held that the current legal solution provides for a two-instance procedure and, as is the two-instance situation, that is to say, the right to appeal is retained. At the same time, the possibility of reopening electoral or referendal proceedings is contrary to the specific nature of these proceedings, which are characterized by speed, and very closely connected with specific elections. The National Judicial Council also disagreed. The other opinions were positive. I think it is very important at this point that the opinion of the Minister of Justice, who said that the project would adapt the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I think that this opinion of the Minister of Justice was very important in this regard, but the committees would agree as to the fact that this solution found in this printing is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and makes it possible for the interested parties to take advantage of the possibility of appeal against the decision of the appeal court. Of course, I'm asking you to accept this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u111	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Stanisław Gogach. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Jackowski.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, did I get that right? I mean, the essence of this amendment, this initiative is that we delete the possibility of cassation, but the duality is maintained. Yes? That is, if a person lodges any objections under this law to materials used in referenda, national or regional campaigns, and has reasonable grounds to claim that the information given is false, he shall submit it to the district court. After this has been decided within 24 hours, if he wishes to appeal against it, he shall refer it to the Court of Appeal, and this special measure shall no longer remain in the form of a cassation procedure. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u113	As far as the contested provisions are concerned, the Local referendum and the National referendum act were just as a fellow senator said. Within 24 hours of the decision of the district court, we can appeal, and within 24 hours, the appeal court makes a decision. And there's no appeal from that. According to the provisions which I quote here, the decision of the Court of Appeal shall not be subject to a legal measure and shall also be immediately enforced. I've defined a legal measure, haven't I? This is the scope of all the possibilities offered by the law in terms of using... Well, it's all the legal means granted to the entitled. And now it's going to be that out of all these institutions that have a legal measure and an appeal... an appeal is a similar institution. So out of all these institutions, we leave a cassation complaint, which is this extraordinary appeal... That is to say, we leave, as far as denial is concerned, i.e. the cassation complaint cannot be used, while all the other means of defence that the law grants will be available. And so far it's been impossible to use any means of defense. It's just that the whole defense ended in an appeal court. [[I'll ask you another question. So now you can use the cassation complaint? Mr. Senator...]] No. Mr. Senator, I don't know if you have the print in front of you... [[Yeah, I'm looking at him right now, 'cause I got him right here on the computer.]] As for the second sentence and the third sentence respectively... It is a provision which says this: the decision of the court of appeal shall not be subject to a cassation action; it shall be immediately enforced. And so is the second bill. He's not entitled. But there's no information that they don't have any other means of defense. As regards the legal measure and the appeal, the cassation action is one of the many means of defence which are available to the entitled party. And we refuse the rightful If you can call it that colloquially only a cassation complaint, and all other funds can of course be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u114	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u115	That's another question. Has the High Commission analysed these proposals in the light of the revised Press Law? Why am I asking this? Well, the authorisation institution has been changed in press law and at the moment, if a journalist in extenso quotes a person's statement, which may, for example, be quoted. include obvious untruths, obvious elements of ignorance, let's say, an official, I don't know, a governor, mayor or president, e.g. vulgarism, it If he literally quotes it He has the right to do so. And if someone uses that statement, theoretically consistent... Well, if he quotes it and uses it for example. in a referendum on the dismissal of the mayor or president, it is actually such a person who has practically no way of defending himself that it was said in emotions that she could not correct it. Because from a formal legal point of view, all the conditions were met. Someone took advantage of the fragment, I don't know, in the footage against... because they're in favour of recalling a certain uncle, mayor or president. And so my question is: has the High Commission also analysed such situations? And they can happen, because we know that the emotions associated with the local referendums are mostly about the issues connected with the cancellation of the office of the governor, the mayor or the president. They're pretty big. And the argument, which is used, or the materials on this subject, which are in public space, also express these emotions. And here, I think, is a situation that would require some kind of analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u116	I think it would be for the court to leave an analysis of all the legal acts that consist of... which are also related to referendum campaigns. But the committee doesn't, of course... There was no such question, no such question at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u117	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft law at issue? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u118	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! There is no government position on this bill. However, as the Ministry of Justice, we strongly support your regulations, because it is important to remember That the designer is the Senate here. Why do we support this? For a very simple reason. You cannot deprive a citizen of the possibility of using the entire procedural instrumentarium, which is provided for in the code of civil proceedings, this institution... In particular, it is an institution for renewal, which is regulated in detail in the Code of Civil Procedure. This is an instrument that should be used as much as possible. A very detailed justification is given in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which addressed this issue and which showed very clearly, having examined this problem, that such rules cannot be submitted, even the speed of such proceedings... Let us remember that the question of referendum needs to be dealt with quickly. If it appears e.g. Untrue information in this leaflet, if anyone comes to the district court, the district court has 24 hours to deal with this case. Then you can appeal and this also takes place very quickly, within certain deadlines provided for by both laws, i.e. Local referendum law and national referendum law. And the court of appeal has 24 hours to make a resolution. And according to these two laws, there was a cut. There was no way to appeal any further. Why? Because it was said that the speed of proceedings requires that at this very moment the entire procedure, which was followed by a district court or later by an appeal court, be terminated. And now I want to tell you that this was a mistake. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed this out, said that the deprivation of this instrumentarium, i.e. in the system, in the procedural area, was the possibility of bringing an action for renewal, deprived... This could translate into a material layer, i.e. certain powers of any person who would have the right to lodge such a complaint. There was simply no rational reason why in these two laws there would be no possibility of using the application for renewal. And yet it is possible, according to the Civil Procedure Code, to file such a complaint within 3 months of the day the person learned, for example. That there was false information. And according to the concept of justice within the time limit laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure If I remember, it's 10 years since that order came into force. It is possible to lodge such a complaint. Why not? Well, that's what's in line with the idea of justice and such an internal order of such proceedings. The speed of proceedings must not really deprive a person of the right to make such a complaint. The Constitutional Tribunal had no doubt about this. I would therefore also ask that you senators Although we are debating your project However, they took into account our explanations, the rapporteur's senator, and my own, that it is precisely that we are giving the opportunity to bring this complaint again in certain situations, when suddenly it turns out that the facts, certain circumstances, the means of proof which were submitted... They weren't known before. The party has the right to lodge such a complaint. Or even in the case of other circumstances which would normally invalidate such a decision. Well, let's give it to a courthouse member who shouldn't be involved. So? And we're gonna deny the party the opportunity to file such a complaint for re-initiation? It is known that he must be entitled to such an instrument. I would therefore very much ask the Senate to respond positively to this proposal. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the following question for the Minister. If there's a referendum, this whole procedure is fixed in time, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] The procedure may resume after a binding decision has taken place in the referendum. So it's just going to be, let's call it, moral satisfaction. In other words, let us look at the practice of these referendums. As far as I'm concerned, most of the referendums are in the appeal mode of the mayor, mayor or president. If we all counted statistically Well, some of them, of course, after meeting those attendance thresholds, which are, it will turn out that they have effects in the form of an appeal or a non-revocation. Yes? And the case is closed in that sense. But if somebody gets called off and he's hurt for some procedural reason, which the Minister mentioned. I don't know, there was a person who didn't provide impartiality in this decision, and there's some reason to reopen the procedure... So what if that person reopens it? And so it is already devoid of function, and this is a change that is irreversible. Am I right? Is that what it has, let's call it, a moral dimension, and less so formal? The legal dimension also has that, of course, because this person is exonerated if these allegations were false, but the effect of the appeal has already taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, that's why you asked the question you asked, among other things. Senator. If there was a cassation complaint, it would be of a suspensive nature in this case. Indeed, because of the speed of these proceedings and the dimension that you have just mentioned, it would never be acceptable in such a situation. But the resumption is a completely different situation. Remember what is written exactly in the second sentence in the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 laws. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The referendum law 1 and 3 state that if distributed, including in the press, within the meaning of press law, material relating to the referendum, and in particular posters, leaflets, passwords and statements or other forms of campaigning contain false information, each of whose rights concerns the outcome of the proceedings referred to in paragraph 1. 2. has the right to file a request for a decision to the district court: prohibition of dissemination, loss of materials, order for correction, order for publication of replies, order for an apology, etc. etc. Of course this can happen long after the referenda. That's the kind of satisfaction you were talking about. But that does not mean that we are to deprive the party of the possibility of making such a complaint. Until now, this person has been deprived of it. Suddenly it turned out that for example. The flyer contains false information, but it was really deprived, except, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, the mode that has been in operation so far... After all, she may have found out many years later, or several years later, about something like this and demanded that the procedure be resumed. The same rules apply to other proceedings. So the question is, of course, whether the party should be able to do so or not. We assume, however, that she should have this possibility, even though it is a very special type of procedure, so fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u123	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u124	Thank you very much. But I'll be back. Because I'll admit I was against this solution. This is related to the Press Law, but it is closely linked to this amendment. Why? Now in Polish law we have adopted such a solution The opinions in the House were divided in this respect. If a journalist quotes a person's statement in an extenso, that statement does not need to be authorized, so that if the journalist retains such a statement, he will record it to himself, then he cannot be accused. Now it might turn out... There may be a situation where someone is simply speaking colloquial, saying stupid things, not knowing a case or using an uncensored word, or taking into account someone's address, a remark that he shouldn't... If there was an authorization institution, in the existing sense, he could defend himself, he could say that the statement was unauthorized, etc. At the moment, however, this possibility is no longer possible, because the journalist will say: please, there is a recording, this person said so. And this could be an obvious element in the referendum campaign against a given person. Therefore, I am simply wondering whether it is appropriate to return to this and rethink the Press Law Act, because much of it... I dare say that a large proportion of those who act as the mayor, mayor and president do not know the details of this amendment to the press law, its elements that may act against them. I am not defending anyone here, but I would like the Polish legal system to create some possibilities in terms of elementary rationality... I am afraid that, in the absence of an amendment to press law or a review of press law, unfortunately, these elements of defence that we are expanding here, as the Minister noted, And rightly so, as a matter of principle, I support it. In fact, they can be quite illusory. I don't know if the Minister shares my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u125	I'll be honest with you, I don't know the regulations, so it's hard for me to relate to that. Of course, the system should be consistent. I'll be honest with you, Mr. Senator, I'd have to take a look at these regulations. On the other hand, we are indeed the legislator, and if there are indeed any discrepancies, then we should create a system so that it is as coherent as possible. In this particular amendment, these two laws, I can say that the point is simply to face justice and Mr. Senator said that he agrees with it as much as possible. Does this have an effect on the mayor's appeal? No. It doesn't matter. But justice and the consistency of the whole system make such an instrument available to a person who can apply it. The court will, of course, examine this in non-trial mode. And there's no rational reason to give up this institution. In fact, he pointed out this, and the Supreme Court examined it very thoroughly. But I can't exactly answer that question because I don't know the recipe. So it's hard for me to answer that question here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u126	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. [[Sorry, Mr. Marshal. Mr Hermelinski asked for the floor, he was among the invited guests.]] Mr Hermelinski would like to... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'll be brief...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Thank you so much for letting me speak. I'd just like to say briefly that the case seems to me... I don't have the authority to give an opinion, but I think it's obvious. I would like to stress that this is not just the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which the designers refer to, the ruling on the signature K 10/15. This is the decision that then initiated the High House project. Already in earlier case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, e.g. the K 7/09 signature judgment of July 2009 also raised the same issue. This concerned the state of law at that time, the electoral ordination to the Sejm, the electoral ordination to the parliament, as well as the law on the election of the President. As regards these provisions, the Court also challenged them. Those were the rules that closed the way for extraordinary remedies. The Court found that these provisions were incompatible with the Constitution because they closed not only the way to the court, but also the way to appeal. In this case, The Court also found that the lack of possibility of reopening proceedings infringes both Article. 45, as well as Art. 77 constitutions. Similar constitutional models were expressed by the Court in its judgment on the signature K 10/15. There are also earlier rulings. In order not to take the time of the High House, I will also mention the signature SK 32/01 and SK 16/14. I mean, the pages... These were complaints, and the complainants raised inter alia. the question of too short a time to appeal against the decision of the district court to the appeal court. Gentlemen, the senators were right to say 24 hours, and the Minister also stressed it, but it was sort of an obiter dicta. The Court also raised this issue, the issue of the absence of a judicial remedy, the lack of the possibility of challenging final judgments. I think it was Senator Jackowski who emphasized that... indeed, it can be said that it is already a bit Sorry about the expression. After lunch, mustard for those who would like to challenge the final judgment of the court. Well, nevertheless, the question of defending honor and honor is important. Undoubtedly, someone would like to take advantage of this opportunity, especially since the principle of objective truth in judicial proceedings is of great importance, and there may be various reasons for reopening the procedure. The rules on the resumption of proceedings contained in the Civil Procedure Code cover a number of issues. Well, for example. it is referred to a situation in which any circumstances or means of evidence were subsequently discovered which the party could not benefit from in the proceedings, the appropriate one, so that is the name. After a while, something came out, and it's hard to expect the complainant not to benefit from it and defend his honor or good name. And if the sentence was obtained by means of a criminal offence or based on a forged document... There's a few so-called ones over there. appropriate restitution reasons. Indeed, it is difficult to deny the party the right to do so, to use this emergency measure. Senator Gogacz quoted the opinion of the court of appeal. I don't know her, unfortunately. I didn't see her. Maybe it's on the website, maybe I missed it, but as for the parts that the senator was quoting, I don't think the court of appeal is right to say that this will prolong the proceedings. Well, of course it will, because that's the essence of an emergency measure, whether it's a cassation complaint or a retrial complaint. Time limits for bringing this complaint, this measure is quite long. After all, if the court finds that the action is justified, it may repeal the judgment or even both judgments and settle the matter itself in substance, and if the judgment is dismissed, the whole proceedings will be reopened, so the question of the speed of proceedings is no longer relevant here. It is only about the applicant getting satisfaction, which is going to happen anyway. Probably a few months, a year or even two years after the referendum or after the election. Well, I'm referring to those previous convictions. It was also a good question, Mr.... [[I'm serving water.]] Oh, thank you very much. I'll have one, thank you very much. The correct question was also the question of Senator Jackowski, who asked whether the cassation procedure was being deleted, because the wording proposed by the Senate might seem that way. Since it is said that the decision of the court of appeal is not subject to a cassation appeal and that it is immediately enforced, it can be felt as if it had been, had been granted, and now has been cancelled, but has not been. In both laws, the content of the legislation was clear. The decision of the court of appeal shall be final and shall not be subject to any legal measure, i.e. an appeal or an action for renewal or any other ordinary or exceptional measure. Thus, reading this provision a contrario, since there is no cancellation, is entitled to at least an action for the reopening of proceedings. This decision seems right to me for all my reasons. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Senator Jackowski.]] You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have this question: is your practice a result of this? Will you confirm my knowledge about this? That most of the local referendums concern requests for dismissal of the mayor or the president? What's the scale of that? During the year, how many such referendums do you write down as the State Election Commission, how many such referendums are held in Poland? I'm talking about a row of grandeur, not some detailed statistics. What is a row of greatness? Because so that we also have an idea of what this law of ours is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is true that most referendums are precisely about the dismissal of executives of local governments. But I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna give you the numbers. I wasn't prepared for that question. I can determine that, and within the day, two, three days, Mr. Senator or Mr. Marshal, send an answer. It seems to me that from the point of view of the right to court and from the point of view of the right to a fair procedure, because this is also an important issue, it does not matter much. Although I don't underestimate the senator's question. Whether it's 100 accidents or 50, or even one accident. Even if one such accident happens, as I see it, and I look at it a little bit as a judge of the Tribunal at rest, so I've always looked at it... Even if 1 person were to be harmed by a defective recipe, it should be given the opportunity to obtain satisfaction. I'll prepare the answer and give information to the senator. I'm sorry, but at this point I can't give it to you, and I don't want to juggle numbers that I'm not sure about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u131	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u132	I just want to clarify. I had the impression that the judge had the impression that my question was as if it were depreciating the subject of this amendment... [[Chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermelinski: No, no.]] ...but I also absolutely share the view of the President that, even if this were to happen in the first instance of injustice, it makes sense to amend it as much as possible. I mean, in general, the number of these referendums, what kind of government is this? the size of the year. Maybe I could clarify my question and then this written reply would be easier for you. Namely, let's say, since 2014, so in this term of government, how many such referendums in the country were there? Then we'll know if it's a constant, because there's 50, 100 of these referenda I'm throwing these numbers right now. Whether it's increasing or shrinking or there's just a difference here. I do not mean these aspects, whether there were legal cases during these referendums, because this is already a complicated matter and of course I do not expect such an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u133	Sure, of course. As I said, we will prepare an answer, one which, I hope, will please the Senator and the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[President of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński: Thank you, too, thank you very much.]] Like I said, I opened the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, I would like to remind you of your commitment to the President of the State Election Commission, which is currently being discussed by Senator Jackowski... I would like to remind you of the President's obligation to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jackowski. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amendment of the law "Cooperative law." I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No. 465, and the committee's report In print No 465 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Committee, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I took part in the honour of presenting the report contained in the senate print No 465 S of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Legislative Commission on the draft law contained in the print No 465. The Commissions at their joint meeting on 14 February 2018 examined the draft law submitted by the applicants at first reading and request adoption without amendment of the attached draft law. That's it. As Mr. Marshal said, The draft which adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 June 2015, the signature of Act K 25/12, and the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15 July 2015, the signature of Act S 5/15, which states that the provisions of the Act are incompatible with the Constitution. The purpose of the bill, which implements this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, is to abolish the possibility of a smooth, i.e. an easy, transformation of labour cooperatives into companies governed by commercial law. This led the committees to decide to propose the execution of this judgment in a manner which is clearly described in the printing. As far as the judgment is concerned, the Constitutional Tribunal has first of all pointed out that it is incompatible with the Constitution of the Article. 203n §3 of the Act "Cooperative Law " in so far as it concerns notification by the notice. This is the case when the management board of the labour cooperative informs the members of the cooperative of its intention to adopt a resolution on the transformation of the cooperative. It shall do so twice, in an interval of not less than 2 weeks and not later than one month before the date of adoption of that resolution. Just what is important is that the Management Board of Labour Cooperatives, which is to be recast, will attach to this notification a draft resolution on transformation and a draft agreement or statute of the transformed company. And that, of course, does not raise any discussion. The problem is with the further sound of this recording. Namely, while in the first part of the provision, as regards the announcement of the intention of the conversion, there was a condition for the addition of statutes, contracts, resolutions, but in the following part there is a provision which states that this does not apply to the case in which the notice is announced. Therefore, if the members of the cooperative do not receive individual notifications, they do not receive a draft resolution, etc. The record was challenged in the part that allows the information about the transformation to be transmitted also by means of an ad I don't know, adverts in the press, maybe by putting out different information in display cases. And this is very different from the first part of the record, where it is said to include these prints in the information about transformation. And that, of course, was questioned. The second article that was questioned is an article. 203o §2. That's where the problem is... As regards the transformation of labour cooperatives into a company governed by commercial law, the problem concerns members of labour cooperatives who do not participate in this transformation. And those who do not participate in this transformation, under this very article. 203o may receive up to 10% the balance sheet value of the cooperative. Well, these records were explained by the fact that if those who do not participate in the transformation, i.e. do not enter the company's commercial law, they received more, then perhaps this capital would be too small or would reduce the attractiveness of the new legal entity, the company's commercial law. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that this was contrary to the principle of justice. Why do people who, as members of a labour cooperative at a time when this labour cooperative is being transformed do not want to participate in this, do not receive the total share of the cooperative's balance sheet? - Same as the others? In this way, those who choose to create a commercial law company receive more, and those who do not agree to do so receive 10%. And of course that's been questioned. Also an article that concerns... Art. 203u §4 and §5 were found to be incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution in so far as it does not provide for a re-evaluation of the members' buy-in and paid-in shares and for an action to establish the buy-in value. That's also... And, of course, the recommended solution is that under Title II of the Law This means that in order to create a new entity, which is a company governed by commercial law, we must first eliminate the labour cooperative. And it's only after the liquidation that you can create, sort of from the beginning... It is this moment of liquidation or this fact of liquidation that the principle of proportionality, justice, as regards members, will be preserved, that all will receive what is associated with liquidation. And what they're gonna do with the capital they're gonna get, it's kind of another case. And this is a recommended solution to just walk away from the transformations, to just eliminate first and then, if you create it, create it from the beginning. The joint committees ask me to accept the proposal contained in the printing, which I have already presented here, so that, in the Act of 16 September 1982, the cooperative law... Like I said, Section VI is being repealed. Art. 2: The provisions of the Act also apply to the process of transforming labour cooperatives into a commercial company started before the date of entry into force of the Act... There was a discussion here, too. And there's the article. 3: The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u136	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized Senator Lydia Staron to represent her. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u137	Yes, Mr President of the Commission, Senator rapporteur: first, remove the cooperative in order to be able to form a company. Very clear rules. Or best not to eliminate at all and let the cooperative movement develop. Yeah, but you know, there are forced situations, there are optimization situations. What's gonna happen? And that's the question. When a part of the cooperative wants to be transformed into a company and the rest is to function on a cooperative basis? Does the bill answer that? Oh, I repeat, such situations also occur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u138	Mr. Senator, the purpose of this amendment is to reduce the number of transformations of labour cooperatives. I'm sure they're very much needed. It is the trend that has, however, taken place that has been reduced. Here, in the impact assessment of the regulation, we have the information mentioned... e.g. The liquidation of 1 thousand 334 cooperatives in the period... in 1998, 2001, 2008... Anyway, it was such a very growing trend. And the point is that, however, labour cooperatives, as a special legal form of the functioning of this type of institution, are certainly very much needed, we are interested in the fact that they simply last. All the more so because these provisions, which could be made on the basis of these transformations, i.e. the sixth section Our job is to execute this judgment, this judgment. This is the first part of the question I'm saying. You also asked what would happen if some members of the labor cooperative wanted to transform... [[Create on parts of the property e.g. the partnership.]] That would have to be checked exactly when it comes to the cooperative law. When it comes to the ways in which... I'm sure it'll be on the basis of resigning from the work cooperative. Yes? If anybody wants to take out the property he deserves as part of the cooperative's balance sheet, then I'm sure he'll be... I don't exactly know the procedures that apply if someone quits. If he quits, it means he's taking away the part of the assets he owns or he's earned. If there's a rule It's about this general principle. That first we eliminate the labour cooperative and then we create a commercial company, it could be the same here. And what he's gonna do with that capital Whether to open a commercial law company or any other legal entity This, of course, is another matter. [[I have another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u139	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u140	You said, rather as a justification, but, as I recall, I'm sorry I'm not precise. In the records it also fits... As you know, all economic operators are equal to the cooperative is also an economic entity, especially the labour cooperative. The constitutional principle of freedom of business applies to all. Is the claim that we do not want to lead to the transformation of cooperatives into companies Perhaps it's the other way around. Isn't that a violation of the principle of freedom of business? Was there a discussion about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u141	Mr. Senator, what we're questioning is kind of a special form of creating a commercial law company. Please note that it is assumed that the work cooperative will not cease to exist even for a moment It's either a labor cooperative or a commercial law company. There will simply be this continuity, continuity not only formal, but also material in the sense of capital, which the labor cooperative has developed. We are talking about justice, freedom of business. Then how do you explain the fact that you have so-called. non-participating members of the labour cooperative, and they will always find themselves, can receive only 10% ? This is argued by the fact that if they could obtain what they were entitled to on a pro rata basis from the total balance sheet of the labour cooperative, it might turn out that this property would no longer be so attractive as to create a commercial law company. This is, as it seems, a great injustice and the Constitutional Court has rightly pointed out. Corporate law... Anyone can start this activity, but there is a question of the capital on which they can start this activity. No one is, of course, defending that the respective resolutions of the boards, the statutory boards of labor cooperatives, because here we are talking about such entities, concerning liquidation or transformation... No, the transformation isn't, because we're suggesting that there's no more transformations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u142	Thank you very much. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u143	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! There is no government position on this matter, but we, as a resort of justice, support the solutions proposed by the senators. It's a senate project, after all. For at least a few reasons. The first one's like this. I also refer to the previous point, in which I also had the opportunity to present the position of the government or to speak on behalf of the government. That this is about the idea of justice, the idea of social justice. The Court in its judgment and in its decision Because in this case there was also a judgment, and a resolution a few years ago. The rapporteur has clearly pointed out that this kind of smooth transformation, like what is at stake, may be contrary to the idea of justice, in various areas, because it may in fact deprive some of the people who, for example, have no influence on the cooperative's assets. they created these cooperatives. So there was an entry, these people had a stake in the cooperative, they should have a share in the balance sheet surplus, but they can't have it, because, as the Court put it, after a very thorough examination of the case, e.g. the notification of this smooth transformation is communicated in such a formula, in such a way that some members of the cooperative simply do not obtain information at all about the fact that the labour cooperative is transformed into a company of commercial law. As a general rule Here I refer to what Senator Rulewski said... Because I, too, regret that cooperative work is simply failing and that needs to be made clear to itself. Although it is still a strong pillar. There are over 20,000 people in it, but there were 10 times more. Today there are more than 500 cooperative jobs, but there were over 2,000 of them. It can be said that in the various European Union countries cooperatives are today a very strong pillar of the economy, giving a few percent of the gross domestic product. In Poland this result is not weak, but it could be better with it. In the case of this change, which took place a few years ago, it was mixed up with some things. Because a labour cooperative is a labour cooperative, and a company governed by commercial law is a company governed by commercial law. What's the difference between them? Well, the difference is that in the first option, there's a person's substrate, and then there's capital, and then there's a commercial law company... Well, what's the most important thing there is? The most important thing is profit, capital, and man, the personal substrate, is second. And that's very important. It's true, isn't it? The Constitutional Tribunal recognised the various disadvantages of these solutions, which were simply transferred from the Commercial Companies Code to cooperative law and brutally pushed into the cooperative law formula, i.e. something which in terms of construction does not resemble commercial law companies, because these are simply aimed at achieving profit. So all of a sudden, there are laws that say you can have a commercial law company, if you have a cooperative, or if you create a union of people, a labor cooperative, because you can transform it. Of course, you can do all this... It's just a matter of how do you do it? Well, there were some important things there, e.g. this mentioned share in the balance sheet surplus, a fair valuation of the assets. And that's not what happened after the shift. There was a possibility of appeal. As the expert did it, it's... Where do we appeal after that? Why wasn't the court route foreseen? There were various possibilities here, cases that were questioned. And now the problem could be solved in two ways: or it could be fixed in accordance with the recommendations of the Constitutional Court, i.e. to simply improve these provisions, or to be able to take the second way, much more drastic, i.e. make a cut and go back to the state that was a few years ago. And the Senate accepted this second solution, going beyond what the Constitutional Tribunal expected. But it seems that this solution is better, precisely because of the construction of the cooperative's work and the construction of the company's commercial law, i.e. It's completely different. Of course, there is one question: it concerns a transitional provision. So this is about the issue of the transformation process that has already started, when there is no entry in the register yet, and we're probably going to have a 'cause that's all that's going to show. The new rules in this respect. What happens when the transformation process has already begun? This matter was discussed at the committee meeting, but it was accepted... ♪ 'Cause you gotta remember ♪ the fact that the judgment and its directional or signaling order had already been a few years ago, and it was known that the changes would proceed in this direction. Anyway, it's a case that wasn't brought up a few weeks ago, but we've been discussing it for months now, and it's not an emergency, so it could have been prepared. We, as the Ministry of Justice, support these solutions. We believe that, in line with the idea of justice, a change should be made here, i.e. a return to the rules that were in operation a few years ago. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u144	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request for the item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u145	Minister, you emphasized the word "righteousness." It's just a little reminder. I was in an extraordinary cooperative commission, where exceptionally luxurious conditions were created for transformations without any charge, even notarial ones, members could become owners of labor cooperatives. As it turned out, it turned out. It's not anyone's fault. It's their fault. What about credit? The co-operatives who turned cooperatives into companies because that was clearly the market interest. Minister, the question is, do you understand this justice? That's your narration. As a mechanical restoration of cooperatives, or as the Constitution says, as an equal between all actors? That's the first question. Two. Why do you mechanically, by means of a law, want to impose on the economy your views and views of the government? However, shouldn't the market decide what organisational arrangements are important, also for co-operatives? The question I've already asked. What about the division? Some of it pays to lease the company because the company was founded. What about the cooperative? Finally, Minister, do you not violate the rules when imposing forms of business? You're talking about it in the Senate. I don't know what's in the records. Aren't you violating the principle of freedom of business? Because this cooperative is a private economic relationship, based on principles other than other entities, a relationship where, as you said, it decides the voting algorithm rather than the participation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u147	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! This is a senate project. This isn't a government project. Of course, I'll explain the reasons why I have this position... [[But you support him.]] Of course, of course. I support you with my heart. I read it very carefully... I had to understand the idea of a cooperative movement. Previously, I knew only craft cooperatives or housing cooperatives better. Cooperatives are a specific, specific form, e.g. for disabled persons. Right? I read the judgment of the Constitutional Court, in order and in justification. I encourage you to do the same. The answer to your question is right there. What is a cooperative? He's a voluntary relationship. On the basis of the provisions which confer the right of association, the persons concerned are brought together and, as part of the cooperative employment relationship, provide specific work, receive remuneration, participate in the distribution of surplus, etc., etc. But capital isn't the most important thing here. I've read various articles. Why should work cooperatives be established? To protect people from exploitation or humiliation. Of course that doesn't mean that I think that. This applies to commercial companies. I say the labor cooperative is something else. I also want to say that I don't impose anything on the market. It is up to you to decide whether or not we should return to the regulations which, it seems, were good and protected the workers who formed the cooperatives. They also protected against sucking property out of the cooperative. You were talking about it, asking the senator if there was a partial transformation. There's no partial transformation. Of course, the cooperative can bring to the company an acquisition in the form of a company, it can be formed on the basis of the assets and the personal substrate of the previously liquidated cooperative, it can transform the cooperative labour into a company based on the provisions of Chapter VI of Title II of Part I of the cooperative law. Here's the whole case-law list. But, after all, it is appropriate that if we want a commercial law company to be established First, simply eliminate the cooperative, not suck it out of the estate, and yet in a way that sometimes contradicts the idea of justice. And you know best that some of the people who formed the cooperative were part of it, suddenly they're deprived of any part of this property, they don't have access... In this mode, which is interesting, since 2011, i.e. since when... because it was the result of action, among others. Mr. Palikot's committee. It was therefore concluded that this freedom should actually be postponed, among others. also for labour cooperatives. Of course I'm not saying that all transformations were done in a way contrary to the idea of justice, but they could have been. Because if you don't individually inform the members of the labor cooperative about what the project is, what it's supposed to be like, how this transformation is supposed to look, then how are they supposed to know about it? E.g. persons with disabilities. Well, that's pretty important. I do not wish to impose anything here, Senator, the market will of course defend itself, but let us protect in the name of this justice just those people who created cooperative labour. Why should we say: here are market conditions now? So? This recipe, which no longer works today, that only up to 10% they may have participated Was that fair? Well, there was this recipe, only up to 10%. they may have participated in the distribution of the assets. Was that fair? Well, it wasn't fair, and you know it. So, to recap, I'm going to say this: the cooperative is something completely different. Capital in second place, person in first place. Company A little bit different. That's why I think these rules are good. And regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal stated that it is simply non-constitutional in the world, both in the judgment and in the decision, where it signaled such problems, even paying attention to this decision, in order to verify as soon as possible what is in Polish law, as soon as possible, because it is contrary to constitutional values, with equality of entities, with justice... So I strongly support these solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you have any idea how many cooperatives have been transformed into companies since 2011 in this liquid mode? That's the first question. How many are in the process of transforming right now? This is about these transitional provisions. And because we've been struggling with this project for a long time, because the first project came out on April 4, 2017, which means it's about to be a year... Is it possible that these cooperatives, which were to use this mode, will simply be able to use it? 'Cause I think a year is enough to transform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u151	Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. As far as I'm concerned, 3%. cooperatives have been transformed into companies governed by commercial law. I have no record of how many cooperatives are involved in this transformation process. I only have the data in the OSR, I remember this data from the OSR, that it could be, in terms of resources, about 90,000 zlotys, so many resources involved... And that third case that the senator said... It has been taking so long and the time since the judgment and order passed and since you took this initiative that today, it seems, will not be a problem from the point of view of those cooperatives who want to transform themselves. It seems to me that the ones that were about to evolve have just changed. I think the national council will have details. We as the Ministry of Justice don't have that kind of data.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u152	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u153	I would like to persuade the Minister to a certain distance from all forms of economic activity, because none of them are perfect. Otherwise, we'd only have one form. And I would like to share your opinion, we have the same opinions when it comes to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which tells us how to achieve the liquidation of cooperatives or the transformation into a company. There's full consent here, because there was sucking... There have also been cases where the crew has not been notified. The president was acquitted, there were hundreds of such examples when he took out his shares, bought out his shares... But I'm getting to it... And here's the deal, Minister. But is it such a mechanical claim that we won't let the cooperative be destroyed? even then I'm already adding that to myself when they make their economy worse, or else the results... including the pot, because the cooperative is also subject to bankruptcy law... And the second question is, as if against what Senator Czerwiński said. How many cooperatives, of course labour cooperatives, were created at that time within the framework of this general freedom and equality of actors?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u154	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u155	Dear Senator, I have been dealing with economic affairs for 20 years, managing one of the organizations, so by nature I simply had to have contact with various forms of doing business. I was just talking about the craftsmanship, because there's a craft cooperative there. I deeply regret that this has fallen, that it has fallen horribly since 1989 and... Yeah, but a lot of people were interested in wealth. This is where the legislator created the chance that this estate, as you said, would be simply taken over. Of course, it didn't have to be, but it could have been. And in this situation, this should not be the case for the sake of social justice. At first... Until 17 years ago there were over 2,000 cooperatives, today there are about 500 of them, there are slightly more than 500 cooperatives. I can't tell you how many cooperatives have been created lately, answering that question you've addressed to the senator. But I would never allow myself to deregulate what's on the market. The market can regulate itself. I am not talking about the fact that this process must be stopped at all costs, because the cooperative is also subject to market law, as we know very well. either it has profits or it has no profits or it divides profits between shareholders or it doesn't. It's obvious. It's the market that checks it out. I don't have the right to do that. On the other hand, I have a duty... we have a duty as legislators. 'Cause as an MP, I'm part of it. also the legislative authority to protect people from the fact that if a transformation is actually carried out, it must be carried out fairly. It has to be fair. That's the point. [[Yeah, reliable, reliable.]] And that's all it was. Maybe I was wrong, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u156	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Senate Marshal and is included in print No 736 and the committee's report In print No 736 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present a report by the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The committees at their joint meeting on 6 March 2018 considered the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading and requested it to be adopted without amendment. This draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure responds to the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court, which was adopted on 8 December 2017. The election of the Supreme Court jury by the Senate in a secret vote is envisaged. The purpose of these amendments is to respond to this legislative delegation, but not only through formal reference to this requirement, but also by such provisions in the Rules, which the choice, the whole procedure, the possible appeal of jurors or the addition of jurors will take into account. And now the basic issues included in these changes. After indicating the number of jurors by the first President of the Supreme Court, the Senate Marshal will announce on the Senate website the procedure for reporting these jurors and the terms and models of the documents which will be in force in connection with this procedure. I would remind you that the right to apply for jury candidates has associations, social organizations, except political parties. and groups of 100 citizens. After the marshal's appointment with the Supreme Court, the Marshal will refer this list of names to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission shall, after examining those notifications and whether they comply with the law and the procedure for the selection of jurors, submit to the Senate, in the form of a resolution, a list of those candidates who do not meet the requirements or whose notifications have been received after the deadline. A positively verified list of jury candidates will be directed by your marshal to the Chief of Police to obtain relevant information on the candidates. Such a list shall be put to the vote in the Senate when returning to the marshal. This will be a secret vote carried out in a special way, i.e. the senators will not be able to vote for, against or abstain; whoever is elected as a jury will decide on the majority of the votes for. Thus, each senator will have the opportunity to put on the list of jurors up to as many indications as many jury will be possible to select by the High Senate. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure also show how the procedure for dealing with jurors who will not be put to the vote will work. It shall be determined how long these documents will be kept and how they will be destroyed if they are not received. The procedure also provides for a way of carrying out supplementary elections and the appeal of the jury. All of this will be in accordance with the law on the system of common courts. I would also like to inform the High Senate that the opinions of both the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council on the subject of the proposed amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure have passed. The two authorities do not comment on the draft amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u158	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicant. I remind you that the applicant has authorized him to represent Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Senator Rybicki reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u159	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was at the committee meeting and I know how the rapporteur was presented on behalf of the applicant, but I have one question to which the answer could illustrate the course of the committee meeting. Were there voices during the debate at the joint committee meeting that indicated that the source, the Supreme Court Act, which, as a rule, forces the Senate to amend its rules of procedure, to supplement it with the rules on jury selection... Was there any indication during this debate of the reason why some senators felt that this amendment would be wrong? The Supreme Court Act according to many legal backgrounds is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u160	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator President, Such voices, of course, sounded during the meeting of the joint committees. The Senators, who argued in this way, pointed to a possible conflict of laws contained in the Law on the Supreme Court adopted last December as unconstitutional... These voices later sounded in the vote on the changes adopted, because the senators who presented them did not support these changes in the Rules of Procedure. They considered that, since they had taken the view that the Supreme Court Act could raise constitutional doubts, such changes in the Rules of Procedure could be regarded as a danger that they might be considered unconstitutional. The majority of the joint committees did not share these concerns and voted in favour of these changes. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the views of the first President of the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council on these changes are positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u162	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the Senate's Rules of Procedure was forced by the provisions of the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court, according to which the Supreme Court's jury is to elect the Senate of the Republic of Poland from among the candidates submitted by citizens or through social organizations. This law on the Supreme Court forces the Senate to amend its Rules of Procedure, and it should be pointed out once again that for many legal environments, legal authorities, the amendment of the Supreme Court Act is incompatible with the Constitution and that, in the future, those provisions of the Senate Rules, which will be amended, enforced by an act of higher order, which is the act of the Supreme Court, have the form of a resolution. They may be questioned, just as their cause will be called into question, or the Supreme Court Act itself. But let's get to the point. What does this bill force on the Senate? She's forcing a jury on the Senate. We introduce this institution into legal order, proposing that in the Supreme Court, the highest judicial authority in Poland, the social factor, the so-called. the folk factor, co-decided on the most complex, most difficult legal issues. And as I understand the demand that jurors be present to a greater extent during meetings in regional courts, so I believe that the decision that they will sit in the Supreme Court, co-deciding on matters relating to disciplinary sanctions against other lawyers, judges, lawyers, have taken an active part in all of this, often without legal education, i.e. not being prepared to rule on such a high level of substance, is a bad idea in itself and may have very damaging consequences for case law in Poland. We're changing the rules. I mentioned this a month ago, six weeks ago, when we also changed the rules governing our conduct, our work, by introducing a rule that eliminated secret ballots. This was a bad example of urgency in the work of the Senate, which caused by political decisions from the outside of the Senate in an extra-fast procedure crossed out secret ballots, although it was already known that the Law on the Supreme Court had to enter the legal market on April 4 and that therefore it is worth waiting and doing, in colloquially speaking, the remanent of our regulations, to change it complementaryly and completely. Unfortunately, we did differently, which is not a good practice in working on regulations, because the rules are some value, it is our mutual agreement and it is worth respecting its provisions. I move on to the legislative proposal itself. She's obviously right, because otherwise she can't be. It's prepared properly, but it's about matter that's not right, it's not obvious. It will impose an obligation on the Senate and on the Senate Chancellery to select jurors. This will be a heavy burden, especially for the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, because it will be her who will accept, analyse and propose to the High House a lot of nominations. It could be a dozen or so people. The Supreme Court will decide what number it will be. This obligation for the Senate to select jury must be fulfilled in a specified time horizon. It's such a timeline, it has to be done by July 3rd, so I think that after this regulation has been adopted... It will apply, as will the Supreme Court Act, from April 4th. Well, and the law firm, and the committee, and the Senate are waiting for a lot of work. About the records themselves I'm not gonna quote them. Chairman Elephant did it competently, so I will no longer refer to them. They are simply the obvious result of the duties that the bill imposed on the Senate. Bottom line: we're changing the rules, forced to do so by a law, which is questionable whether it's constitutional, so it's some kind of paradox. We choose the jury who will decide, participate in important decisions concerning very complicated cases, without being prepared for it. We select them in secret mode, newly introduced into the regulations, from which we recently deleted the secret mode. And that's a paradox. Therefore, the Senators of the Platforms will vote against changes in the rules, due to concern for the quality of the law and precisely for the unconstitutionality of the law, which is the source of changes in the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u164	Thank you, Senator. You're still a senator, aren't you? [[No, first you're a marshal.]] No, I'm waiting. Maybe somebody's gonna change me. Nobody's gonna change me? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Good. High Izbo, now I'm acting as a senator, not as a marshal. What I'm saying is that I'm watching... we're watching some kind of weird dance over the rules together. A month ago, we changed the general rule that provided for all personnel voting in the Senate to be secret. Now we have a new initiative and we are discussing it again, although the situation has been known. The amendment to the Supreme Court Act provided for the secrecy of jury selection. And this case was referred to here. The rules, as a regulation of principles and internal structure, including internal order, should be as permanent as possible. Treating him as a tool for the majority of politics to... to change him at any time when it is. In a specific case, I find it wrong, reprehensible, which we should not agree to. The kind of voluntarism we've been showing lately here in this House... And this is not an initiative that comes to us from outside, from the government or from the Sejm, but it is our initiative. Such voluntaryism, showing that everything in the rules can be changed, breaks certain canons of legal stability, the stability of the system that is in force in the Senate. I am against this change also because of what Senator Rybicki was talking about, which emphasized constitutional doubts about the Supreme Court Act. But I would like to stress this stabilization function, which meets the Rules of Procedure for the House, for the Senate. I therefore request that the resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure be rejected. It is not possible to make changes on a monthly basis in the same way, in this case in the personal voting system. Now that you've voted, since the PiS voted public elections in personal matters, let it be public elections. It was your voice, the voice of the majority. You voted it out, and I stress that. I therefore request that the draft rules be rejected. Now please take the floor of Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a certain In fact, with great discomfort I listened to these last statements. Why? That's because of the words that have already been said. On the one hand, it is concluded that the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure results from the need to comply with the provisions of the Supreme Court Act, which enters into force. And I think we all need to confirm that. On the other hand, listening carefully to these statements, especially Mr Rybicki's statements, it must also be stated that the proposal is legislatively correct, and that it is both the project itself and its inclusion in the system of law in such a way that there is no difficulty in implementing the Supreme Court Act. Well, in this situation, it's actually difficult to understand the call to vote against this change or not to make that change. I must say that it sounds a little awkward to make ex-cathedra here in this House a statement about the unconstitutionality of the Supreme Court Act. Well, legally, as long as this is not confirmed by the Constitutional Court, the law cannot be regarded, especially by the House, which is the Senate, as non-constitutional. It's a mess of order. Of course, there is a presumption of constitutionality of the law as long as it has not been found to be incompatible with the Constitution. And any other approach to the case is simply a usurpation of a task or competence that the Senate does not have. In this situation, it is a little bit like the announcement of voting against a bad habit, which has recently existed in public space, calling for non-compliance with the law. We have a similar situation with the National Judicial Council, where certain persons or bodies are trying to ensure that the law that is in force cannot be applied. Each institution, each body, including the High Chamber, the Senate, shall have its powers, rights and obligations. It seems that the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which, of course, I support, is a need for a moment and our duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u166	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The obligation to amend the Rules of Procedure is a prominence of the Law on the Supreme Court, in which the institution, which has so far not functioned in law, has been introduced. Therefore, the Senate will be required to choose the jury who will sit in these new structures. Therefore, as the law very precisely defines the way in which jurors are appointed, amendments to the Rules of Procedure of our House are necessary. So I would suggest that we focus on the substance of the case, not on assumptions, assumptions and political concepts, and that we not decide on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of acts of law in Poland, because, as my previous speaker mentioned, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, there is a principle of presumption of constitutionality in Poland. And lately, there's this fashion that if someone doesn't have an argument, they start using an argument about the unconstitutionality of a solution. And this is about clarity, not only in political environments, but also in other environments that are currently involved in the interpretation of constitutionality. It can even be said that there are many people in Poland who are outstanding experts in constitutional law. Now, I'm gonna get to the point. Well, High Izbo, it's a really difficult duty to make a jury choice, because this procedure is strictly described in the bill, and also when selecting a jury. there are often different types of allegations which may be made by applicants to become jurors. I can share my experience with the High Chamber here. Well, I was president of the Council at the time. Warsaw. There was a system at the time that the courts were based on jury and council. Warsaw selected hundreds of people to various levels of courts operating in the capital city of Warsaw and competent for the capital city of Warsaw, i.e. not only regional courts, but also district courts. I can assure the High House that this was a huge challenge because the statutory procedures that were in force at the time and which are in force now are very restrictive. They impose an obligation on the appointing authority making such a choice, in this case the Senate, to fulfil certain conditions, strictly prescribed by law. It must also be borne in mind and it must be borne in mind that those who apply for a choice, and who are not elected, may later question the results of the vote in appeal. So as to the substance of the matter, that is the scope of our amended rules, there should be no doubt, because in the interest of the Senate, it is in the interest of the Polish State that there should be no doubts here and that there should be full compatibility of the regulations and procedures in them with the obligation imposed on the Senate in this regard by the Law on the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u168	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Senator Czerwiński wants to speak. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I do not question the need and necessity to amend the Rules of Procedure and will in no way try to question the constitutionality of the law which is in force and which the Constitutional Tribunal has not challenged. I would just like to point out one thing. Namely, in this new law on the Supreme Court, requirements are imposed on candidates for jurors. They are referred to in Article. 60. And one of those requirements is that... aha, and in art. 59. And one of these requirements in §3 of point 1 is that the juror has only Polish citizenship. This is new. This means that this institution, which will check the formal requirements, and in this case this institution will be the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, will have to check whether the juror... back: whether the juror candidate meets this requirement, i.e. it has only Polish citizenship. And that's gonna be very difficult, because right now I think the only way to get a candidate's statement is just because there's no such thing as a certificate... The requirement that he has Polish citizenship is obvious, but that only Polish citizenship... Well, that would mean that such a candidate would probably just have to make a statement. I don't know the procedure that... Of course, there are checking procedures, but there is a question of which authority to turn to to determine whether a person has only Polish citizenship. It's not so obvious to me, and that's what I'd like to draw attention to, because with this... Well, maybe not so much problems, because maybe candidates who will apply will have only Polish citizenship, but there may be a problem with the formal fulfilment of this condition, i.e. checking this exclusivity as to the possession of Polish citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u170	Thank you, Senator. There's no more volunteers? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I would like to inform you that Senator Borusewicz has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. Ah! Excuse me... You too? [[No, but when you're done with the marshal, I...]] In a minute. I know what's going on, yeah. Okay. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Senator Elephant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u171	Mr Marshal, I propose that the joint committees be obliged to submit a report so that it is possible to vote on the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure at the current Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u172	Thank you. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. [[Objection, Sławek. Why don't you object?]] [[Voice from the hall: I do not object.]] Senator Jackowski reporting... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Good. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Print No 756, and report No 756 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020, print No 756. The Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Agriculture Committee on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020 in order to consider it after first reading. The committees yesterday... excuse me, on 13 March they considered this project, made some comments and amendments and asked for these amendments to become a single text. And that single text was voted out. We have passed a resolution on it. If the High House permits, I will allow myself to read it, so that it is already binding in nature, as to how this resolution sounds. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the negotiation of rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020 The Senate of the Republic of Poland closely follows the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) within the European Union after 2020. As part of this exchange of positions, the Senate of the Republic of Poland believes that maintaining a common EU policy for agriculture and rural areas and its financing from the common budget will significantly contribute to the effective fulfilment of the Community's public objectives relating to food production and social, economic and environmental dimensions of agriculture and rural areas. This concept of European added value of EU policy is very strongly emphasised in the discussions in the European forum, especially in the discussions on the future multiannual budget of the European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland therefore calls on the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council to ensure that, in the course of the work on the EU budget, the transitional difficulties facing the European Union today do not obscure the fundamental needs of its citizens, which are met by the implementation of the common agricultural policy. The Senate of the Republic of Poland considers that the key to the implementation of the priorities of the future common agricultural policy is to ensure strong and fully Community financing of this policy from the budget of the European Union. The budget of the European Union's common agricultural policy should reflect the growing scale of the challenges facing European agriculture today, linked to social expectations, environmental requirements enshrined in European Union legislation, as well as economic pressures in relation to the processes of globalisation and the liberalisation of the Union's trade policy. The proposed changes in the method of financing direct payments in the context of the debate on European agriculture, involving the introduction of co-financing from national budgets, and especially voluntary ones, could seriously jeopardise equal conditions of competition in the assessment of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, the Senate of the Republic of Poland demands a level playing field in the single agri-food market. In order to achieve this objective, inter alia, it is necessary. moving away from historical criteria for the allocation of direct payments through the final completion of the process of equalising the level of direct payments between Member States. The maintenance, still in force, of an unfair system of direct payments violates the principle of non-discrimination between citizens on grounds of nationality. 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU) and infringes the prohibition of discrimination between producers within the Union (Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union). Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Treaty). The Senate of the Republic of Poland has already expressed its position on the subject by adopting a resolution on 16 February 2012 on calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland and the European Parliament to act actively to simplify the common agricultural policy, competitiveness and progress and to introduce equal and non-discriminatory rules for the distribution of direct payments to farmers between the Member States of the European Union (M.P. poz. 111). The Senate of the Republic of Poland also recognises the need for an active policy to stabilise agricultural markets, strengthen the bargaining power of agricultural producers and processors in the market chain and introduce more effective instruments for managing production and price risks. EU agriculture is now increasingly dependent on variable prices for agricultural products linked to global markets and climate change. This situation is detrimental to the sustainability of farmers' incomes, hinders their long-term planning and new investment, and discourages young people from joining the sector. The Senate of the Republic of Poland believes that the common agricultural policy should further support the incomes of small and medium-sized family farms. These farms are an important part of the European agricultural model and decide on the socio-economic viability of many rural areas by maintaining jobs. They produce environmentally sustainable production and create added value by producing food based on regional traditions so important for maintaining Europe's diversity. The Senate of the Republic of Poland stresses the importance of rural development support policy within the framework of the common agricultural policy (the so-called "common agricultural policy'). The second pillar of the CAP). It believes that the financing of this part of the common agricultural policy should be strengthened, that the harmonious criteria for allocating the EU budget to this pillar should be maintained, given the continuing diversity in rural development levels and that the other EU policies for the development of these areas should be properly committed. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to take into account the conclusions contained in this resolution in the work on the future of the common agricultural policy for the period after 2020. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's it, I think, that's it. If I have anything else to add, it is that we are now at the stage of the preparation of concrete documents by the European Commission as regards the budget, as well as the common agricultural policy. Commissioner Hogan announced that he would announce it soon, in May. And the Commissioner for Budgets announced that at this stage We can all do everything we can to convince the message that has already been announced in November last year. This message indicates certain elements that should be found is such an indicator. There's some threats in there. As you can see, we have concerns. Therefore, the Polish Sejm has already adopted in a similar version... Therefore, I ask the High House to adopt this document, called a resolution, which would also support Polish agriculture and, I think, our entire country, because agriculture is a very important element of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u174	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski came forward with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, do I have a good feeling that this draft resolution came out of this resolution, after the committee meetings, a passage addressed to the President of the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission... Did this part actually fall out? 'Cause I'm sorry, but I don't have that committee report. And the second question is, if it fell out, what were the reasons behind it? Because that would point to the right addressee of the requests contained in this draft resolution. [[As I said... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u176	There you go. Yes, yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u177	As I said, the joint committees have developed a common position and in this common position was a proposal to respect the marshal and not oblige him to submit the text of this resolution. There is a different wording of this paragraph. It reads: The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to take account of proposals. This is the short version. It was omitted that the Marshal was authorized to pass it on. The senators thought that you basically knew what he was doing, and you didn't have to write to him to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u178	Senator Jackowski wants to ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u179	I understand this way of thinking, but I understood it so that originally this draft resolution was supposed to consist in the fact that after the House took it, I trust that unanimously the Speaker of the Senate would have a delegation to send an official letter with the attached text of the resolution to the relevant addressees. This document would then take on the characteristics of some position of the Polish Parliament, which could possibly be taken into account in further work on the common agricultural policy or on the principles of creating a common agricultural policy or not. But it's a separate subject. I do not know whether it has been established at the moment that the Marshal will simply direct the text of the resolution to these institutions or not. And then this resolution a little bit, so to speak, would hang in the air. So that the senator would like to say... Those who've been going in the direction that you shouldn't go to the marshal... I mean, I share that point of view. But will this mean that the Marshal will send the text of this resolution from the automatic machine and, in principle, the resolution of the Polish Senate to the institutions that should receive this document?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u180	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u181	In our understanding... the senators have decided that, since we are discussing this issue, while we are talking about it, Mr Marshal will listen to our voice, he will do so, I will say, the intention of the senators and will send it to the bodies that are mentioned here, namely the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council. I believe the marshal will listen to our voice. The Senators of the 2 Joint Committees considered that the project that was prepared by the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development does not have to be literally written down. [[And this resolution will be sent to the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister of the Polish Government should know the content of the Senate resolution.]] [[Right.]] It's understandable that since there's a Minister of Agriculture who listens to us... We asked him questions at the agricultural committee meeting and at the joint committee meeting, we participated in the work on the document, we worked together. The government is actively involved in all of this and is helping us. We understand that there is no need to add more here, because all this information is the result of cooperation with the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u182	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u183	Mr. Jackowski asked an important question. I even agree to that question. How will you send this resolution to the European Council? It's a set of premieres. I think it is necessary to include the President of the European Council, without mentioning the name. Here's a question and a problem. The Senate refuses, or at least most of the senators, the recognition of the President of the European Council. So how do we do that? We don't recognize him, but we're sending a letter to him. That's the first question. Two. Has this resolution been consulted with our MEPs? That's an address too... If they were to support this effectively, it would have to be discussed with them in some way. That's a procedural question. Now, here's the substantive question. I think that's the rule all over the world, and it's not just about creating a budget. You are instructing us here that in order to apply for an increase in funds, you must indicate the source. Unfortunately, there is no indication in this resolution. You don't tell me where the money's coming from. In this resolution I don't know who is the author of it, but there's a contradiction. It's written there... I will read this carefully: despite the difficulties that exist in the Union I understand that this is about Brexit etc. We want more. Well, there's a contradiction here. Another question. Can you describe... You're a very good expert on farms, micro- and macro-. How is it that we demand compensation, and ourselves... How much do we give these payments to the farmer against other countries, including, of course, free pensions, free health benefits, budget subsidies mentioned here, or other social benefits? How much do we differ in terms of competitiveness and income, say, from the Czechs or even Germans?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. [[May I?]] Yes. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u185	As far as the lack of resources is concerned, I would like to draw attention to something that I have already informed the High Commissions about. Not long ago, we attended a meeting within the Visegrad Group with the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate. Previously, there was a meeting of industry committees, among others. the agricultural committee on which we adopted a joint declaration on the agricultural situation, seeing the prospect of negotiations. That's the resolution, that's the position. As you wish, senator... It is signed, among others. by me and by the chairman of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture, Mr Sachaika, and by the other presidents of the Visegrad Group's parliaments. There is also a general position of agricultural ministers, which was previously signed in the Visegrad Group. There is also the position of the Marshals of the Sejm, the Senate, the presidents of the parliaments of the Visegrad Group. It is such a general document summing up different policies, so that it is already going on. The Minister for Agriculture was recently, if I recall correctly, in Latvia, where agriculture ministers also expressed a similar position. Everywhere we can, we are strengthening the lobby to maintain a strong European Union budget. I, too, have already talked about this in Brussels many times. Even Commissioner Hogan has made it clear that funding needs to be increased in the face of these two major losses, i.e. exits... Well, Brexit's going to reduce revenue by about 30 or 40 billion. And there's a case that's also very important... Well, now we're talking, among other things. about migrants, for whom we will also incur higher costs. I've talked about it many times. Even if Poland spends billions more on a contribution to the European Union... Well, we can only finance the common agricultural policy from the European Union budget. Therefore, any money that influences the budget will come back to us. As I hear the German minister who says he will not object to increasing funding because of the fact that these funds that go to our country and are supposed to equalise our chances to their level, also return to Germany, I think everyone has an interest in it. The Prime Minister of the Polish Government has announced that he is ready to return to financing... Because I'll remind you that three perspectives before that were 1.2%. Today we are talking about 1%, and the Prime Minister of the Polish Government declared that Poland is ready to raise the premium to 1.2%. The discussion concerns whether up to 1.26% , or up to 1.1% This is the discussion in the European Union, and we are at this level right now. Therefore, we are all talking about increasing these resources. At the moment, there are so many debates in different countries and places that we all know what this is about. I think it makes no sense to write this down because the Polish Prime Minister's declaration was public and in the Union such talks between different countries are binding. If the Prime Minister said so, I think that... we have always said, we have often said in Brussels that we must force finance ministers to act, who are preparing the budget. But if the Prime Minister's already talking about it, I'm not thinking about the Minister anymore, because it's the Prime Minister himself who decides what the budget will look like. Poland faces it, the Visegrad Group faces it. I think that the country that is most resisting is France, which is very much benefiting from the common agricultural policy and, in principle, does not want to raise its contribution. It is the French who are most resistant to raising it. And when it comes to equalization... You were asking about the equalization. Well, evening out is what we're writing about. When we accepted this in 2012, we considered that no one could be discriminated against in terms of place of residence, country, location. Farmers cannot be discriminated against in this respect. We want those odds to be equal. The policy that had previously been pursued in the European Union has changed a number of times, but the basis was to maintain payments so that consumers have lower food prices. Let us remember that the money that affects agriculture may not be, but then the consumer will have to pay more for food, because the farmer will have to sell his product at a higher price. Well, the surcharges equalize these levels. If we didn't have these subsidies, these costs would be double. First of all, they compensate for lower prices that are beneficial for consumers. Well, these payments make it even, that's a supplement. Some say it's thirty, forty... Well, it's different how it affects agricultural production, but one more element needs to be taken into account. The so-called rule applies all over the world. protection against imports, i.e. The name is briefly, clearly and clearly Customs duties. Customs can no longer be used in certain cases and therefore applies worldwide And in the United States, and elsewhere. - different forms of support to reduce production costs. Well, the European Union, by applying this principle, limits the influx of... Liberal economy Let's call it liberal trade. It affects that prices in China, India, Brazil or other countries are low. We want equal opportunities, but we import those products, and these subsidies help to minimize these differences. I don't know if I'm making this clear. [[It's bright.]] That's when it's this... Because often these funds, these subsidies that farmers take, take over industry, processing and consumers, and farmers are just part of lowering prices directly to the consumer. In other cases... I am sorry, but let me be clear: if the European Union had withdrawn from payment, the European Union would have lost, not Poland, the European Union would have lost in global competition. Don't the U.S. do that? States As my calculations show, well, I get information They pay more than Europe, to which they do not want to admit publicly, but there are various forms of support. Similarly, different forms of support are within the European Union. The different countries also have earlier historical rules, and I can even give you a few examples, such as hoppers. Hoppers maintained some previous payments, historical ones, they were allowed to pay for hops there, and in Poland they were not allowed to pay for hops. They obtained this consent before entering the European Union. Today you can say yes, because the English are still here, they haven't left, Brexit hasn't quite... Great Britain has different discounts, different types of support. Everyone has this element. And what they had before they entered the European Union before they signed the treaty, they left as their acquired rights. And that's the element: they have better payments because they got historical payments. We got historical payments at a very low level, counting... I mean, in the calculator, because that's how we counted... In short, we can say that we do not prolong the discussion, that e.g. in the case of France, the yield was calculated on 60 quintals. This is the rate of aid up to 1 ha. And in Poland it was a 29th comet something. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: 28.]] And I say 29, let it be over and over again. So the conversion rate was half as low. And as we look at the envelopes now, we see that we have 3 billion, and they have almost 6 billion. This difference is based on the conversion we got. And she should be evened out, historically we should no longer bear the costs that they... Well, the previous policy was that they flattened into the national average... It didn't quite work out, and they still want to flatten, so they can take what's more, take what's less, add. There is no idea that 100% will be treated equally. So that's why there's this dilemma, and that's why we're saying that you can't continue to use historical payments. After all, we have been in the European Union for so many years, we must respect all the requirements that are in the European Union, the rights, all the principles of safety, phytosanitary, veterinary, environmental, according to the law, we must respect many, many of the elements mentioned here, because we are a member of the Union. That is why we are asking that payments be treated equally and not historically. [[In addition, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u186	Excuse me, Mr. Senator Jackowski is next, then Mr. Senator. [[...I'm...]] Well, because he's from a different group than I am, which of course I prefer... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator about the effects of this resolution. As a senator, as an expert on this issue, on the structures and procedures that are within the European Union in the field of the common agricultural policy, he assesses the opportunities... I understand that this resolution will echo the position of the Polish government, which not only declares this argument, but also presents it in the forums responsible for the common agricultural policy. How does the senator assess the chances that the proposals contained in this text will be implemented in the perspective of 2021/2026? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u188	Thank you. [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u189	Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. In the European Union there is a powerful lobbying that operates... It is lobbying either state or lobbying lobbyists who are registered in the European Union. Many companies, many other institutions lobby all the time, all the time, in Brussels or in Strasbourg to get what everyone wants, the best. The role of our country is to develop principles that are beneficial for us, and the more different institutions the Polish government supports, the greater is the support of our Polish position. I can say, on the basis of previous experience, that these resolutions, as you have seen, have been taken into account and they have given more resources to the European Union, those which have been announced in the communication or even in the documents that have appeared, to the policy for the years 2013 and 2019. There were over 1 billion more in those documents, if I remember correctly, I might be wrong about the amount of money than what was negotiated. So we say that we are at the stage of the documents in which it will be included, how much will be written in the prepared budget document and the common agricultural policy. Then, of course, the Council of the European Union decides, as a last resort, what will be the provisions. And even though it was very positively negotiated by the previous negotiators, and it was done twice, because I remind you that once they stopped and did not complete the negotiations, they repeated them twice, they negotiated less than it was written, than even the European Parliament... Because I remember Mr Wojciechowski, who was vice-president, how they put the proposals and how there was even more money proposed for the common agricultural policy for Poland in documents than the decisions made. So this lobbying was positive because Poland even had more opportunities, but the Council of the Union did not agree. And it was sad for me when the MEP, and today the chairman of the European Parliament's agricultural committee, publicly said that this government sold farmers for EUR 500 million for cohesion policy. That is what I heard in his statements as then a Euro MP of PSL. He said that he was sorry that Tusk had taken away the farmers by adding more resources to cohesion policy at the expense of agriculture. But these are internal fairs that at this point It happened to us, and we lost our resources. And yet, one can say, by saving the situation, the Minister of Agriculture of the previous government changed its functioning to save this situation, applied a variety of payments. Smaller farmers then gave more resources, the greater Less, not the average that was before, was the reference to the size of farms, i.e. capping, as we call it, was applied in Poland. Well, these are the elements of the internal distribution of the budget, but the European Union has given the opportunity to transfer funds to one way and the other: from cohesion policy to Pillar II and Pillar II to Pillar I. Poland applied the principle that from the second pillar it moved funds to the first pillar, saving low direct payments. Hence the rural infrastructure lost on this and rural development went by over 4 billion less due to the fact that this money had gone into payments. But that's internal policy. At the moment, the European Commission is saying that it would like to prepare, as the Communication shows, the possibility of choosing and applying measures within internal policies. This is detailed, and I don't want to explain it right now, because we don't know what the document will be yet, but if you're asking for it, then the Minister has it written down on the points, it says many times that this possibility will be. We in this resolution are afraid that it will not be so that they will give us the opportunity to apply nationalisation of policies which will consist in countries being able to finance, because then the poorer countries will not find the resources and the rich, the rich, the resources will finance and again will be uncompetitive. So this confusion is what we're talking about. And I think that this resolution at first also says that we cannot lead to, as I call it, a nationalisation of politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u190	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u191	Yes. If it's hard for you to say, because these are analytics... I asked what part of the so-called. Hidden financing of agriculture... which is part of the direct payment and how it is developed in other countries. In other words, by adding to farmers, or actually financing all insurances for them in whole or in large part, we equalise these opportunities. What is part of this surcharge? Two. I understand that Mr. Marshal is not going to see the President of the Council, I do not know if, as Senator Jackowski suggests... Because there's no deputy there. Then who are you gonna hand it over to if you don't recognize the Prime Minister... the head of the European Council? And the third question, or rather, such a request, because you are aware of it... The Union has announced a departure from the policy of direct payments to social subsidies due to food surpluses, uncompetitiveness, etc. Is this the new budgetary perspective being taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u192	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u193	I'll start at the back. Yes, there are many ideas. We haven't seen the final document yet. The communiqué mentions him, but it doesn't have that kind of translation yet... We care about what Commissioner Hogan said at many meetings. Besides, he comes to Poland, he will be in Jasionka on March 23, 24th at a big conference where he will be... at which he was invited, initially counting, probably 7 ministers. I don't know how many agriculture ministers are gonna make it. It was said that there would be ministers from France at this conference, perhaps from Germany, Spain and other countries. There will also be Commissioner Hogan and another Commissioner has announced that he will be, but I do not know if he will be. There are meetings on the initiative of the foundation... I often call it the commemoration of Józek Ślisz, as you remember, the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. There's an annual award for them. Józef Slisz, whom we want to honor... And there will be representatives of the ministries, etc. We're showing that we're in negotiations until the documents come out. Although, as I said, the document is a document, and then, at the end of the day, the Council will make a decision which will be final. It's a question of aid. I would like to point out that we should talk as little as possible about how much subsidies we use so as not to show the so-called. external financing. We should do this for one reason. Well, if historically, once upon a time, the payments were made by those... 'Cause they had a lot of subsidies... But we had subsidies, too. Please note that there were huge subsidies during the time of socialism. Please note how much milk costs. I remember that. In the store it cost PLN 2.90 and my milk was bought at PLN 5. That was the difference in payments. [[Only then there was no market.]] After entering the... After the changes after 1990, all these subsidies were taken from people, the free market was left behind, destroyed, taken away, handed over... We can judge it differently. I don't want to discuss what happened in the 1990s. But we are in the European Union. We've won the support system on the so-called. Social issues, we are talking about the KRUS. As you know, there are 16 billion every year when it comes to funding, of which about 90% funding is from the state budget and around 10% It's made out of contributions. Please note that we, fighting for the KRUS, fought for it then... And almost 2 million ha were taken away from farmers for so-called. The PFZ, as far as pensions are concerned... It was about 2 million ha. We thought at the time that no insurance was taken, because, please note that there was no insurance for farmers. One could say that until the time of Gomelka there was no insurance, farmers had to pay themselves etc., etc. There's been abuse. That's what I call it. They didn't want to go to the collective farm, to the cooperative, calling it Polish, to the pegeers. It was harassment. Now we've decided... We fought already in 1990 to create the KRUS, the insurance system that is in France, Germany, Austria. He's a lot like him today... You can talk about its various elements, but it still works. And we thought that since farmers couldn't cover themselves here because there were no insurances, now they have to be paid from the state budget to pensions. Well, that's historical arrears. Firstly, there are 2 million ha that have been taken over, and secondly, there is an element that we often raise, or funds for which they paid, etc. That's what we've been saying many times. And now the question is, how many are insured and how many are retired? Well, I guess there's more pensioners than insured people. As a result, farmers are unable to pay the same contribution as in the Social Security Office. And this is also, as the senator said, one of the elements of the failure of the Polish farmer not to impose such high charges on him. This is the support that was agreed in Parliament. And I think that neither you have a grudge, nor I have a grudge, that such support is due to pay pensions to those who have not been able to pay for... Today, almost 30 years later, it is now 30 periods of contributions for the farmer to pay, and before that he had not. So the state has added, and to this day it has added, to those pensioners who are taking pensions, because no one has paid them these contributions. This is, you know, a historic, historic thing that we're dealing with. And all that social stuff... As a farmer, I am opposed to being financially financed by someone. I want to work. My fellow farmers also want to work and have fair pay. They don't want social. They want to function, they want to have the prospect of continuing to operate in agriculture, they want the young generation to take over these farms. We still have many young farmers in Poland, but in the West they are almost gone. This famous program of the Farmer looking for a wife was invented in the West because they don't have those wives there... In Poland, too, there is a problem. How do you want to keep young people in agriculture if you don't give them a long-term perspective? And that's where we're talking about these perspectives. If that's enough for you, Senator... I don't think there's any need to justify it anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u194	Good. Mr. Senator, I have the following question. It's a long resolution. [[Right.]] Tell me exactly what's going on. I understand that right now there's a tendency to cut or add in agricultural subsidies... And here are, I understand, differences. If you could explain it and tell me what the differences are, what countries it's all about, and if that's what it's all about...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u195	As Commissioner Hogan said, it is now his job to maintain the 2 pillars of the common agricultural policy. One of these pillars is direct payments and the other is support for rural development. That's how farmers do it. And rural infrastructure has the opportunity to co-finance from the project, which is entrepreneurship, because from the second pillar also entrepreneurship or non-agricultural or other... And these two elements are what we're talking about. What Mr. Marshal said... One of the basic elements is the financing of maintenance, and if you want to maintain it, you need to find a source of funding. These are the two elements. And here we say, we repeat, we quote Mr. Marshal, together we passed on 16 February 2012 this is our position. That's what we've been saying before. This position was announced in the Polish Monitor. You were also acting, speaking. This was addressed to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission. And you spoke at the time. We're repeating exactly the same elements here. That farmers cannot be discriminated against by country, place of origin, etc. So we're reminding you of this previous resolution, and we want to secure it. These things are, let's call it short, while the text itself is quite long, because we just want to justify it. And that was the offer in the Seym. In the Seym they adopted such a formula. Ours is with a slight correction, but it's almost the same as in the Seym. So that there are no different resolutions, so that the Sejm doesn't have a different Sejm, the Senate has a different... We wanted it to be a homogeneous, similar approach. And so it was done, Mr. Marshal, as you remember, also then, because on the basis of this resolution, a similar resolution was adopted in the Seym in 2012. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u196	Are there any more questions for the senator? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u197	Yeah, I do. Please give respect, one number, about of course... If we accept that this resolution will pass, how much would we gain?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u198	Mr. Senator Rulewski, you defended Polish peasants in Bydgoszcz... You remember. You defended them, along with these peasants, fighting for the rights of these peasants to be respected. It's the same thing now. We defend against, let's call it, this assassination. I'm just saying it. A reduction in the financing of the common agricultural policy. That's the main goal. Oh, and equalizing competitiveness. These are the two goals. Whether we get it or not... What of the fact that the Commissioner, who was the Commissioner of the budget, Lewandowski, then adopted a document about very good financing for Poland, since we got less, because, let's call it, negotiators in the Council of the European Union, i.e. prime ministers of governments, have lowered what was in this document? But that's what negotiations are all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u199	Are there any more questions for the senator? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Would a government representative, Minister Zarudzki, like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for the adoption by two committees, joint committees, legislative committees and agriculture, of a resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. I will mention only the motto of the priorities of the common agricultural policy from May and the actions of the government and the Ministry concerning the common agricultural policy. Government's position on the European Commission's Communication of 30 November is an important tool, which means that the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy are equally important and protects the interests of Polish agriculture, ensures rural development, or 93% the area of this country. I think he's an important tool for the Prime Minister to negotiate the budget... This is an important time. On May 2nd, the budget framework will be announced on May 30th... I came back from the talks in Brussels yesterday and there was such information that at the end of May there would be a few hundred-page schedule on what, how much and on what terms... This support of the Sejm and the Senate strengthens the negotiating position of the Prime Minister, who will negotiate these principles. That's one thing. Secondly, it puts us and the resort in such a strong position when we talk regionally to other countries when we try to look for concrete solutions on this basis, which will mean that Poland is an important player at this stage of negotiations. And I think these effects are invaluable. The question of how much we will gain from this resolution is the question of the length of the string. It's gonna be so much... How much we have depends on where you cut it. And we're at an important stage. And first of all, we care about competitiveness... What you mentioned to the senator. I'm just gonna take this part briefly. The idea is to make Polish agriculture competitive, we want to keep the budget at least at the same level This is a very important statement. We're talking about keeping small and medium-sized farms. We mean that if, in the new programming period, every half of the Commission's communication talks about environmental and climate burdens... a farmer does not have to bear the cost of this. The farmer must have security, compensation for... so that nitrogen doesn't leak, ammonia doesn't go, so that CO2 doesn't... Well, these are very important things. Moreover, when we talk about subsidies, let us not talk about billions for agriculture, because in fact there are 760 thousand small farms. That's 10 and 20 thousand support in the case of low prices for agricultural products, high costs of inputs, fertilisers, plant protection products, so that we equalize... Sometimes it's all the agricultural income that it is. And so that the senator would have cheap food in the store... That's really how it works. This mechanism worked. All these years it's been working, and God forbid anyone even thought... that the first pillar of payments, market regulations, and the second pillar of rural development, so-called. the rural development programme has been retained in force. I feel very satisfied and believe that the Senate will adopt this resolution by acclamation, it will be a strong support for the Ministry. Because in direct conversations, if we're talking... We're gonna have a meeting in Jasionka and the commissioner... And his associates immediately say, What text? What does it involve? And what's written down? What do they pay attention to? It's really following. Yesterday I experienced this in the European Commission during a nearly two-hour conversation with Minister Plewa, on which his colleagues said: and you said it, and you said it. We're active, we're important. You can say "partner." At the moment, we want a meeting within the Weimar Triangle to seek common interests so that this common agricultural policy is kept at the best level. And not everything is so clear. We have to fight for it, and that's what a resolution is for. Once again, I would like to thank the High Senate very much for taking this decision and personally Senator Chróścikowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u201	Wait a minute, Minister, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the government representative present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u202	Mr. Marshal, I want to repeat the question, this time maybe... As you know, in the European Parliament, as in Poland, but the importance of this is greater, there is a budgetary debate. This letter can be sent, I suspect that a few countries send such letters, if not all, but actually it will be decided by the MEPs. And the question I have already asked is: do you meet Polish MEPs? There's been a meeting like this, isn't there supposed to be a meeting like this? With everyone, of course, because I think there may not be any division in this case, not even reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u203	Thank you for that question. Recently, at the European Commission's headquarters, there was a meeting of a representative of the Ministry, I was present, a representative of the European Parliament, the chairman of the agricultural committee, representing all the Members in this procedure concerning the common agricultural policy, Mr Siekierski, so he was a representative person, and was the Director-General of DG AGRI, Mr Plewa. And of course we are talking, of course we are communicating, and what is more, our position and position of the European Parliament... Because there's a parliament resolution and it's consistent... I am also as if I have been positive about the strength of the budget, about at least such a budget... It can be said that it looks as if the European Parliament has read our resolutions, read our priorities, in the sense that it is also in such a good European trend... I can make it available to the senator, it concerns the budget, the need to strengthen the role and importance... it concerns the transformation of generations, it concerns risk management, it concerns the added value of the common agricultural policy, the funds, the equalisation of funds. It's very important. The funds in terms of competitiveness in terms of historical data, this is what the senator has already said... I'll say that this cooperation is, it could always be better, but if there's a need for bilateral direct contacts, they're like they're... Well, I think that the chairman of the European Parliament's agricultural committee is a representative person to know and be able to submit our position, which does not mean that we have to agree with everything. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u204	Thank you. Does the senator have another question? [[No, I didn't get the answer to that question... it's simple.]] Please. [[The question was: have you met with Polish MEPs?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u205	Okay, I'll answer that. [['Cause I don't hear...]] As far as I know, Mr Siekierski is a Polish parliamentarian... [[Voice from the room: But this is one...]] [[But not times 32. We still have...]] [[Voice from the room: We have more.]] [[Voice from the room: 51.]] Mr. Senator... [[You're a farmer.]] [[Minister, please, as you can, answer...]] [[...with everyone, because everyone decides about the budget, not one Member of Siekierski. Maybe it'd be better, but he doesn't decide yet.]] I think we have direct contacts with Senator Kuzmiuk... with Mr Kuzmiuk, if necessary, with other parliamentarians... I'm not gonna name them right now. These contacts are in working mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u206	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna ask you straight, because, I see, you're circling these questions and answers, gentlemen... Let me ask you straight away: when you participate in the negotiations, do you meet with the Minister and representatives of Poland, with the MEPs of the Civic Platform on the common position of the whole Polish group, regardless of the... important issue, what did Senator Chróścikowski talk about? Say yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u208	We do not meet with representatives of the European Parliament... with representatives of the Civic Platform. Anyway, I don't. But I'm not the one running the whole process... I can't speak for the others. And if such an invitation and it is necessary, then I do not rule out that it could happen. We haven't had that kind of signal so far. I'm open to this conversation. [[That's it.]] [[The question is, Marshal Borusewicz...]] There's one more thing I'd like to say. Well, to me, the most representative person... And I have met Mr Axierski, who is a representative in the European Parliament, on several occasions in the Committee on Agriculture. And we meet at different levels. This, in my opinion, is the perpetrator, the most competent person to pass on a position, discuss and as if to lead a mutual search for the best solutions here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u209	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u210	Minister, I would like to tell you that such the most authoritative people in the European Parliament are in the Committee on Budgets. And I know that there are definitely 2 Poles there. I talked to them. Both of these oppositions, which you call a total opposition. This committee is crucial. And I assure you, if you want to meet them, they will come to this meeting. But the initiative should come from the government, because the government has proposals and ideas, and the strategy of these negotiations. So I'm paying attention. And I still have a question I didn't have time to ask the senator, he's more of a politician... [[A unionist.]] A politician... [[I'm a union guy, by the way.]] Yeah, a union guy, by the way. And I'm gonna say... But I'm gonna ask you this question. Well, PiS declared... and accused the previous government that it didn't make the payments even. He declared that after the election it would lead to equal pay. Did it happen or not? Have there been any changes in the proportion of the payments? [[We know what's going on. Why ask like that?]] And what is the chance that this will be done by the end of this term of office of the Polish Parliament?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u211	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u212	Thank you. I'd like to get back to the first part. As far as negotiations are concerned, it's like it's happening around the so-called. trilogues: European Commission, European Parliament and Council of Europe. And those negotiations activities that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also conduct... We're dating, we're talking about the so-called. the multiannual financial framework. These actions are being taken with us, there are meetings. And the Prime Minister will be in financial matters after preparation and after consultation, also with the Ministry of Agriculture... We're working hard on all of this. But the effect is that... we're talking about the so-called. the trilogue, i.e. those decisions concerning the last form of the provisions... Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Europe. That's the first line. Second line. I understand this political part of the second case. Minister Jurgiel has spoken on this subject many times. And here, seeking to compensate for what we have already talked about, to compensate for the EU average... I know that Minister Jurgiel called for a... He's bringing it in right now... I believe there are matters with the former Minister of Agriculture to determine what words and what content it is. I don't want to settle this here, it's like in the Minister's information I'm gonna let it go. As far as direct payments are concerned, there is no doubt that equalisation of direct payments, equalisation of conditions of competition, is the elimination of historical payments. As it was said, we cannot rely on the fact that if they were calculated according to the amount... the reference yield... 60 q and the reference yield... 28 q... that these are the conditions of competition. We're looking for the best possible solutions. I think farmers understand that. And when it comes to political decisions, it is not, I think, the competence of the resolution. The competence of the resolution is to take care of the interest of Polish agriculture. And I think that's what we should all be doing. Because I am convinced that all senators, regardless of the political option, care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u213	You're asking Senator Blackbay one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we agree that everyone here should care about solutions concerning equal amounts of subsidies for Polish agriculture. I think we're signing off on this. However, I have the following question. Minister, if we negotiate at European Union level... Because during his speech, Senator Chróścikowski spoke about equal values, about matters relating to the sharing of common principles. My question is: if by contacting not at political level, but at official level, you feel any Don't give me that. - Pressure? - Yeah. Do you feel any suggestions regarding the approach to Poland, i.e. such a way of dealing with cases that, since we have a. I am talking about the interpretation of the European Union The problems of the rule of law... In the opinion of the Minister, can this translate into money from the European Union in any way? That's one question, very important. And I think we're all trying to make sure that doesn't happen. That's first of all. Second... Oh, that's the second question I'll ask later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u215	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u216	Thank you. I would also like to refer to this earlier topic and as if to stress the issue of compensation. Minister Jurgiel in the Seym, when the bill was being proceded, was very specific about it. I am unable to repeat exactly what matters of compensation are like, the rules, so I refer to the transcripts of Minister Jurgiel's speech, where this matter has been presented very precisely. So much for all the unnecessary speeches that do no good in terms of the new programming period. This is the first case. Second thing: rule of law. On the contrary, and I will say this: Poland is respected... I can say it for myself, because right now, I'm at Minister Jurgiel's office... Minister Jurgel meets, goes to council meetings, we're looking for allies, e.g. within the Visegrad Group plus 3, recently with the Baltic States... We want to resume the meeting... Recently I was in Paris, where I met with the French Minister and he expressed great satisfaction... He will also be in Jasionka, if he arrives, because it is already after the renewal, the government is already approved. To meet as part of the renewed Weimar Triangle. I think these actions will be quite quick and efficient. I'll tell you more: it's the opposite. And thank you very much for this question, because I can say with full responsibility... Anyway, somebody who's been tracking the agribusiness and our news coverage on the website knows. 'Cause it's hard to argue with facts. That is, we are respected and as if other matters do not complicate our search for good solutions. Poland, as a large country in this part of Europe, plays a leading role here, which is respected. Let me be clear: Minister Jurgel is a respected Minister of Agriculture and is looking for contact I'm saying this with full responsibility because I'm attending these meetings... It's us that other people come to, recently former Spanish Minister for one day, Minister of Romania... We're looking for more... More ministers come to meet, talk, there's press conferences. And it's documented. Come on, we're working... Some of the things about the two-year financial framework are closed, so we need to look for good solutions, and climate creation and the creation of common objectives... Of course it's not that everything is perfect and that we agree on everything, but we're looking for compromises. And this search for compromises is a respectful approach to Poland. And other factors I say with full responsibility... It is as if we continue, and I don't think we're gonna get off this road. This creates a good translation, because time is short, the more that we process quite quickly. There will already be a financial framework in May, there will be details at the end of May, legislative and legal decisions are to be made at the turn of June and July, so we actually need to start preparing for the new programming period. And we're in the third full year of agricultural affairs, e.g. under the Rural Development Programme. There are many challenges, but I think we work very hard, we don't spare ourselves. I hope my answer is quite exhausting. I say it with conviction, and I know the facts confirm it. The facts confirm it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u217	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u218	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, I am pleased, I am really pleased that you have so many good contacts, because only in bilateral meetings and talks do you build certain trust. And I'm saying it's good. But that's not what I asked, Minister, because... well, thank you for the information. I ask again, so simply, please say yes or no. Are you guys... Because there are conflicting different kinds of information, and I am interested in the information from the front line, because this concerns Polish farmers, and after all it will be very important. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I already answer...]] Did the State in the context of the talks, not at the interstate level, the Minister said about the Minister of Romania, France, and this is very important, but I ask something else. But when you talk to the officials of the European Union, you feel what is happening around Poland without getting into the details of who is right about the rule of law? If so, that's good, and if it's not, it's good. I just want to hear this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u219	Definitely not. [[Definitely not?]] Definitely not. [[Good.]] I'm saying this and I can look deep into my eyes, because even if I had... I'm looking for someplace... Officials came to us because they visited us, we went to them, we looked for different partners, we contacted them directly. I'm in a situation like this... [[Okay.]] ...in leadership... On the contrary, we are accepted. There is definitely no such situation. [[Mr. Marshal, may I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u220	The question is... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but the Minister came to my word with an answer and I didn't have time to ask the second question I wanted to ask. But this...]] Then finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u221	Minister, that's very good. I have another question, if the Minister could assess this: what is your assessment of the possibility that in this term of office, which is probably the purpose of all of us present here... What is the chance, according to the Minister, of equalizing subsidies to Polish farmers with payments to farmers in the European Union? Can you honestly tell me if you can see that this is possible, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u222	Mr. Senator, I'll answer your question. Do you know the convergence process? He's going on. Do you know the convergence process? Equal to the EU average? He's going according to plan, which is to compensate those who are above average... Poland is on the level of... The average is about EUR 268. The convergence process, which is such an attempt to align direct payments and equalization continues and continues... Here's what I'm going to say right now: as far as the details are concerned, I can send the senator a message on what the convergence process is and how it goes and that there's no interference here. I'm telling you, it's still going on. Moreover, on the basis of this, we are also looking for solutions for a new programming period. But it's all... There's gonna be a national strategic plan, a little bit different possibilities to model funds, that's what we find out. At this point in time, with regard to this programming period, actions relating to the compensation of payments to a certain level are still ongoing and are taking place. This is not a question of whether it is possible, because they are, in this period by 2020, to continue the convergence process, to compensate for direct payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u223	You're asking Senator Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u224	Minister, these meetings are so many, and I'm sure you're one of the specialists, because you, on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, are responsible for this negotiating plot, you can say, the preparation of all these things... I have a question: in connection with this, for the next meeting... Because yesterday I received documents from Brussels, which they signed, among others, I repeat, the President of the European Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, that the 24th Parliament meeting on the CAP and negotiations is in Parliament. Do you already have an invitation like that? For from the Sejm there are to be 2 persons, from the Senate 2 persons and we are to participate in the preparatory act, the act before the publication of the document. Do you already have that information or not? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: These meetings are many. We actually go to Brussels every week.]] 'Cause I'm gonna have to send two people in a minute... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Is the twenty-fourth also on the calendar? When it's time...]] April 24th. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki:...I will verify it. Because really these invitations to Brussels are...]] And so there is another element that Siekierski was talking about. And why do I say Siekierski? Because Siekierski is the person who and we as negotiators with the European Parliament know this He's a responsible person. Before Italy was responsible for the negotiations, now we have a Polish representative who is responsible for agriculture in the European Parliament, it is easier for us. As you know, DG Director, Plewa Director, is a Polish representative, former Deputy Minister of Agriculture and negotiator of Poland's accession to the European Union in the field of agriculture. We have the most important people. And if we're just discussing it right now... [[You speak nicely.]] And we personally, Mr Minister, me, Jurgel or many others meet very often, not to say that almost every two weeks, or sometimes more often, or less often, well, different. [[Mr. Senator...]] So this cooperation continues. And I think, Minister, that it can be said that when we talk about negotiations with all parliamentarians, apart from the official lobbyist documents, I call it, because in the European Union lobbying is not a crime, it is about lobbying in a positive sense. We will enter into negotiations with the whole Parliament, as colleagues say, with the parliamentarians, only after we have developed a position that will be known. Because today we're just talking about wanting, but let's not talk about details, about what needs to be changed, what needs to be introduced, because we're waiting for these documents. Whether it is or not... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u225	Mr. Senator, that wasn't a question, but it was interesting. [[But I'm done with the question.]] It was interesting. So why don't we give the floor to Senator Rulewski now, the senator will ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u226	It won't be interesting, but there will be a question. Minister, you said that Poland is respected, that respect is shown by officials... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: This is how it happens.]] ...and ministers. I think there is a vice versa, even though there are other voices here that the Union is trying to take away our sovereignty, that officials rule this Union, regardless of national... But I'm asking you substantively, because that's even what I promised you to the marshal. Senator Chróścikowski, as well as you, mentioned a little bit about difficulties. It's diplomatically understandable. I'm gonna have to go deeper on this. As you know, probably last year customs duties were abolished, the European Union abolished customs duties against Ukraine. [[Quota.]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Quota.]] Quotas. But you also need... industrial, I think. But okay, quotas. And here's the question: how is this going to affect what you are worried about here, the competitiveness of our market? It's especially about products like, as I recall, sunflower, wheat and probably corn, but I might be wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u227	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u228	That's a good question. We know from the farmers we have reports and we monitor very closely... That's the problem... There are, of course, problems, there have been attempts by Slovakia to smuggle in different ways, we have become the destination country. There was an increased quota. And what we can do is any formula... We're monitoring it. Action and customs are being taken, and our services are connected... so that it is not transferred to Poland, only that this quota is for the entire European Union. We monitor, I want to say that we have a lot of support for agricultural organizations here, we monitor each case individually. And for today... Of course, this problem may occur, but he's not a threat. I don't know the details, but I know that we're doing what we have to do to ensure that this situation that has happened is not a threat to our market. So far the prices are at such a level that this threat does not occur, but the vigilance of everyone is here as if they were entitled. And I think that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u229	Your question is Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u230	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I would ask you to answer the first question now, and to the second question, rather in writing, because I doubt you have the data on you. The first question is: which countries have, like us, a vision of the common agricultural policy that will support us. Of course, in your opinion. And which have a completely different vision, which means that they will, so to speak, interfere with the adoption of what we want? That's the first question. And second question. If you could, please describe, as I am saying, rather in writing, how much money in individual years, maybe during this programming period, which is at the moment, we have received from the Union But all of them, not just those for agriculture. And how much money we've paid. And what's the difference? And eventually when we can become a net payer, if the trend is what it is right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u231	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u232	Thank you. I will, of course, answer the second question in writing. As for the first question, which countries... Well, that depends on what... Because it's not like... of course, the old countries of the Union. I am thinking of the old countries that have created the European Union since the beginning. They have historically a completely different situation, other agriculture, at a different level, also in terms of technological adaptation. And we have the least in common with these countries. and these are countries such as Germany as France, Italy, like the United Kingdom, the Netherlands But that doesn't mean we're not looking for an agreement with these countries, because that would be irrational. And which one do we have most in common with? That's easy to say. Of course it's Central Eastern Europe. Well, Central Eastern Europe, for well-known historical reasons Because of certain situations that have arisen after 1989, due to some transformations. We have to say yes... Because one thing is important here too, namely that until 1989, if I remember correctly, there were only private, individual farms in Poland, and they were like a dam against the communist authorities, defending values, as far as tradition is concerned, about history, supporting these values, and after 1989 they felt a little uncomfortable. So our situation is quite unique, for example because of this one only fact, i.e. that we did not start certain changes that had started elsewhere in the 1950s, with huge subsidies, due to further elements of the common agricultural policy. So we can say that we have common goals. Only not always all, with one country we have more, with other countries less With the countries of Eastern Europe. We have the least in common with the so-called countries. Western Europe, which followed a slightly different mode and their agriculture, was at a different level when we met in 2004 in the European Union. That's the general way. You could talk in detail about each country, separate each country's specifics, but in general that's how I can answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u233	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Once again, I am returning to the issue of equal subsidies. I know it's hard to tell when exactly they're gonna be. However, I would like to say this: I am not interested in the issues of the whole convergence programme and the whole process, because you are from this and you, I see, are a fantastic professional here, but I am interested in what I should say... I come from very strong agricultural areas in Poland, i.e. from Powiśla and Żuław, so various kinds of meetings always raise questions: what do you do, what do you do? Without pointing out a political addressee, would we, as farmers, receive equal subsidies? This has been discussed in the previous term of office, and it is also being discussed now, because this is important. Anyway, you're talking about it, too. If you have the support of people like Mr. Siekierski, as I understand it, the MEP or Mr. Plewa, who was the negotiator, then I ask: well, when, if not in this term of office. I am talking about the financial term of the European Union, am I not talking about this term of office? 'Cause that's the question that comes up. Therefore, Minister, please tell me, please use the word 'I estimate', 'I suppose' or'some kind of vague term', do Polish farmers have a chance in this financial term of the European Union to align themselves with other farmers in the European Union or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u235	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u236	Thank you very much. I know there are meetings... I know these areas, these are extremely agricultural areas, and I know the farmers there. And I believe that at these meetings, apart from these topics, there is also an opportunity to talk about the proposal in an electronic version, to support through the opportunities currently available through the Rural Development Programme, the use of support. Right now we're going... Well, modernization, restructuring small farms, dairy cattle... I think farmers have a whole range of opportunities to benefit from support when it comes to equalising competitiveness. The second point is what you are going to do, which is a level playing field in the single market. I will use this parliamentary resolution that we have here, because it is a big determinant for me, and I will appeal to Minister Jurgiel on direct payments at the Sejm's sitting for the second time. And I think that's the most appropriate answer on my part, because she's precise. I don't want to duplicate it and skip something. In order to achieve this objective, i.e. the conditions of competition, it is necessary to read this, because it is very clear Departure from historical criteria for the allocation of direct payments by the final completion of the process of equalising the level of direct payments between Member States. And further: the maintenance of an unfair system of direct payments still in force infringes the principle of non-discrimination between citizens on grounds of nationality, Article. 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union and infringes the prohibition of discrimination between producers within the Union, i.e. Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd treaty. We'll stick to that line. In answer to the question, I refer for the second time, as to your previous questions, to the transcripts of the Sejm meeting. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u237	You'll ask the senator, won't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u238	One last question, I promise... [[I have a question too.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but on this subject, I have a question... [[Yeah, me too.]] Mr. Marshal, last one. Minister, thank you for informing me that there are other topics at meetings with farmers from Powiśla and Żuław because I did not know, you know that they are talking about it. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to thank you for what Minister Jurgiel has said that you will pursue this, etc. I'm gonna ask you one more time... If you do not want to answer, please say no or use a different sentence rather than tell me stories about things that are mostly known. We know what the Polish government is trying to do. I will support the Polish government in these efforts, which I want to declare immediately. Minister, I'd like to ask you one more time. Would you like to say whether, in the upcoming EU perspective, I am talking about the budgetary perspective of... I know we're gonna try to do that, and so on. This whole stream of activities that the Minister has quoted... I am signing my name, but I ask you to tell me whether Polish farmers have a chance in this upcoming financial perspective of the European Union Do you see such an opportunity? In order to get even in competition, could that be a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u239	Mr. Senator, thank you so much. With great respect to the senator, I'm going to say yes right now. I'll look up the transcript of the Sejm meeting and send you an answer as soon as possible, which is tomorrow or Friday. I wouldn't want there to be a double vote when it comes to direct payments. Minister Jurgel presented this in a precise and exhaustive manner. And I'm gonna stick with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u240	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u241	Minister, I'm sorry, but Minister Jurgiel isn't here, you are, and that's why we're asking you. [[Maybe we should take a break.]] I want to ask you how much these agricultural subsidies are in terms of averages right now. Does the Ministry of Agriculture have any idea here? I understand that the idea of achieving an average within two years is impossible or unrealistic. I get it. But does the Ministry have an idea of what level it wants to reach in the next budget? That's the question. And one point. I heard that agriculture before 1989 in Poland, in the Polish People's Republic was private... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I was talking about individual farms. Much, except for the PGRs...]] [[80%...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture Ryszard Zarudzki: 80% to 20%, yes.]] Exactly. And that's what I wanted to see. Because I heard it was private. Well, it was that 20% It was... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: State, but I was talking about...]] ...state or cooperative. [[Minister, wait for the question.]] Well, individual farms were private, Minister, that's clear. If you... Because you didn't explain it. I have a question. Who can we count on in this case, which countries, apart from the Visegrad Triangle? What, for example? Spain? Do we have business with Spain? I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you Is this kind of country... Well, Spain belongs to a group of countries of the old Union. Can we count on any other countries from the old Union? Because here is the matter of an alliance, an alliance beyond the Visegrad Triangle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u242	Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u243	If this is about what level we're trying to reach, right now... [[No. What's the level right now?]] 248 euros per hectare. The average is 248. It's not that simple, Senator, depending on... that's the average. On average, it's 248. [[You mean on the...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The EU average is 268. The EU average is 268. [[The EU average is...]] 268. The convergence process I'm talking about is to get from 248 to 268. And those countries that have more than 268, which is 280.290, are supposed to go down to 268. It's like the ones downstairs... It's even more complicated. It's 90%. mean, but in general it's more or less... And these are real numbers. Let me repeat: 248 is the Polish average, 268 euros per hectare is the EU average. And it has to be as if... And the convergence process is to bring this to this amount. It's like one thing. As for the structure of farms before 1990, 1989, as I said in some simplification... What was that all about? Well, the specificity of Polish agriculture... Let me rephrase that. Where were individual farms outside Poland in the socialist countries? Nowhere. That's what I'm saying. There were 80% of them in Poland. While there were PGRs everywhere. And for that reason, this transition, these subsequent transformations... Well, it's like it's conditional that agriculture's a little different. In the Czech Republic 130 ha is the national average, and in the Czech Republic 10 ha is the national average. We have our own... We have to respect this agriculture, farmers have to feel that this time of history for them is also something positive at the moment, because different things... I come from the farm myself, and I know what it was like. I was in the village where there were 5 ha of PGRs, and for some years it was about 15 ha, 20 ha, to take away farmers. What pressure it was, what resistance it was. There have been events in Bydgoszcz, other than that of his time... Those were difficult times. So sometimes farmers have this feeling that they were so tough against... Not only the workers, what was there about before, but also the farmers. And that's what honoring Mr. Slim next week is for. And I think that's also the dimension that's worth talking about. About the fact that farmers were against the system, too, and very strongly opposed that reality. As for the question, which countries specifically... Say the question again, because I don't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u244	Well, I feel like... Well, which countries of Western Europe can be an ally? Of course, there are different divisions, even net and recipient payers, that's such a basic division, but... do I think Spain might be such an ally? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Mr. Senator...]] And are there other countries outside Spain? Portugal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u245	Let me rephrase that. In general, and it really is. We don't have any enemies. This is the first case. There are no countries that would definitely... We're looking for common... Because each agriculture minister, such as Germany or Poland, realizes that agriculture is different. We exchange opinions, talk and look for common points on different issues. Let me put it this way: the level of development is different, of course, but each country... Germany pays more attention e.g. for the protection of the environment, i.e. for the emission of ammonia, for nitrogen emissions, for the use of plant protection products. So we are looking for solutions within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which will bring us closer together, so that we will have one goal at this stage of development. And France? France also has its objectives, linked to the first or second pillar. Let me put it this way: there's no such thing as... I'm sure it's Ireland. Here we have a very good translation. From smaller countries, I think, there are individual topics, because this is quite... If we refer to the European Commission's communication... We have allies, but it depends on the area. And that's where we're looking. That's what I'd say. And that's kind of fair to me. Because we don't have any enemies, which I can definitely confirm. There's no such thing. There's a compromise search. Commissioner Hogan has all this in common, but I'm sure Poland is in the group that counts in this game.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u246	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will put this question slightly differently, although it is undoubtedly about the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy after 2020. Isn't it the case that Poland is pushing a little bit on the margin of the game by the future budget of the European Union? This is in the context of, for example, relations between Poland and the European Union, Poland and Hungary. Is it not also a bit so that our attitudes will lead to the fact that Poland's participation in the future budget will be much more difficult? As we all know, the common agricultural policy is the largest part of spending in the European Union budget, although it has evolved and today cohesion policy is equally important, and from the point of view of Poland it is a much more important part of the transfer of funds from the European Union budget to national land. But are you also trying to build relations with the Ministry of Development and a common front of negotiations? Because we also know very well today, Minister, that in the 2014-2020 perspective a lot of expenditure and a lot of investments in rural areas are being made thanks to the involvement of the European Regional Development Fund, and especially within the framework of regional operational programmes. Today, the Minister for Agriculture, in your person and in the person of the Minister, Jurgel is cooperating with Minister Kwiecinski and are you together preparing a common negotiating front with individual Member States in the European Union, whether in bilateral relations or multilateral relations, or relations with the European Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u248	Thank you. There are two aspects here. Now I'm talking about this period, and then I'm going to get to the right question. At the moment, together with the Ministry of Investment and Development, we are naturally members of committees every now and then. This concerns the Partnership Agreement... This involves the spending of funds. So we're tight. The Partnership Agreement is binding on us, isn't it? That's all the resources, including the funds. And that's why we're in direct relations now. We are discussing, we are looking for good solutions when it comes to spending money. As regards the new programming period and, of course, the multiannual financial framework, there is a team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs headed by Minister Szymański. I am a member of the permanent European Committee, so-called. KSE. Transfer to this team of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Development and Infrastructure, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology 'Cause 2 ministries are connected... That's where we meet. What are we preparing? March 27th... This is a specific dimension, these are specific teams... As vice ministers, we work on two levels. Minister Jurgiel joins when important things are already agreed. Then we close up and the ministers themselves... And we, as vice-ministers and our experts, are preparing a position for the Foreign Minister with a contribution to the negotiations on the financial framework and for the Prime Minister to the Council meetings. And this is the second very specific dimension. We discuss and prepare challenges, conditions or arguments, e.g. on why the EU payer is to pay for Polish agriculture. Yes? The arguments... and we're also doing an information-promotion campaign. Above all, we are working on a position which is later presented by the Foreign Minister and by the Prime Minister during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. So this work is at expert level, vice-ministers and ministers. She's been going on for at least a year, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u249	The senator is asking a supplementary question. Please. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I don't know if you followed me, and if you did, how much did you follow... In the second half of 2011, Poland led the Council of the European Union for the first time in the history of European integration. And Poland has given tone in terms of cohesion policy. We were such an informal leader of the cohesion policy group. As part of the work that has been done, as I mentioned before, we then built a loop between the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy in order to negotiate properly. If we were losing... France's position was strong, which you know perfectly well. Spain was slightly weaker, but an area-related country with a view to implementing the common agricultural policy. Germany, of course, was also not meaningless here. We were building information flows and, as a matter of fact, headed the negotiating position, so that... If we lost our advantage under the common agricultural policy, we immediately built up our advantage in the framework of the negotiations in cohesion policy. Are you guys here today, too? The information you provide is important. But is there a negotiating strategy yet? How much is Prime Minister Morawiecki trying with you today, with the appropriate ministers, to create a negotiating position to make it flexible? The point is that we should be able to build an argument and keep in mind that if we lose in one area, we should build an advantage in another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u251	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u252	Thank you. This is a good question: the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. I'll answer that. The resolutions taken by the Sejm and the Senate support the common agricultural policy. It is equivalent to cohesion policy. This is really important. This is our inner, not just the outside, conviction of the Ministry. Thank you again and I hope that the resolution will be adopted. Minister Kwieciński himself, at meetings on the multiannual financial framework, argues that cohesion policy is equivalent to the common agricultural policy. This is a very important information that creates us as if equal conditions for cooperation. Let me remind you that other DGs are negotiating a common agricultural policy. Cohesion policy has its own negotiation procedure. And somewhere at some point, we'll meet. This is the minister's domain and the question of the multiannual financial framework. Let me put it this way: this stage is important and there are no concrete decisions yet. They'll be important at some point, but the direct ones... If there's any agreement... Some of the things agreed in the work of the Multi-annual Financial Framework Panel are classified and some are generally available. This is happening at ministerial level and under direct arrangements between ministers. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u253	Are there any more questions for a government representative? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you very much.]] I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski and Senator Czarnobaj. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm resigning right now.]] Good. We'd like to say that the senator refuses to answer in writing. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union. Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is included in print No 757, and the committee's report In print No 757 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a joint report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Legislative Committee a report on the draft resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union. The joint committee meeting took place today. A resolution was tabled on it, which is the response to the resolution adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, the National Assembly, on 20 February 2018. Since this resolution is relatively short, I will allow myself to quote it as a whole at this point. It is a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of today about cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union. On 20 February 2018, the Hungarian Parliament, the National Assembly, in the presence of the Ambassador of the Republic of Poland, adopted a resolution entitled: O supporting Poland in the face of pressure from Brussels. In this resolution, the Hungarian Government called on the Hungarian Government to support Poland's position, not to allow it to violate its rights guaranteed by the EU Treaty, and did not accept such proposals as would restrict the exercise of fundamental rights deriving from its membership of the European Union. In addition, the resolution invited Hungarian Members of the European Parliament not to support such a proposal from the European Union institutions, which supports the introduction of a procedure initiated pursuant to Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude to the Hungarian National Assembly for the adoption of this resolution. Initiation of the Art. 7 The TEU is an unjustified and dangerous attempt at political pressure and limitation of national sovereignty in matters which remain in their exclusive competence. The Senate of the Republic of Poland assures our Hungarian brothers of its support also for their aspirations and actions aimed at building such a European Union, which is a community of sovereign, independent and equal states, respecting each other's traditions, culture and distinctness. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. We in the Senate Club of Law and Justice held an internal debate initiated by Senator Czerwiński, and decided that on such an unprecedented resolution of the Hungarian Parliament In fact, this resolution was quite strong. We should, just as the Senate, answer. Well, this is an unusual situation, because it is rare for another country's parliament to express such strong support for another country by means of a resolution. In this Hungarian resolution Because it needs to be addressed as a basis for this whole initiative Our centuries-old relationships, these special Polish-Hungarian ties, our common state foundation more than a thousand years ago, the foundation based on Christianity, and later, many times intertwining, the history of both nations, both countries, as well as very strong ties already existing in modern times. Here is an example of the year 1920, the Polish-Bolshevik war, when Hungary strongly supported Poland, 1956, the struggle for freedom, democracy and equality that we have already fought in completely contemporary times, and the current situation in which our countries, as members of the European Union, try to follow their individual path and strongly emphasize their sovereignty, their distinctness and the right to self-determination in those areas where it is clearly guaranteed both by our Polish constitution and by European treaties. We all know how it looks at this moment, what these relations are between the Polish government... what is the attitude towards reforms of the Polish government, especially in the area of justice. There is a strong dispute in this area between the Polish Government and the European Parliament, the European Commission. From the point of view of our political environment, as well as the Polish government, we are unfairly accused of violating the rule of law. We have many reservations about how our reforms are perceived by the representatives of the European institutions, of course we also oppose the launch of all these procedures relating to the alleged violation of the rule of law in Poland. At the meeting of the committee, two positions were outlined: the position of the Senators of Law and Justice who support this resolution, as well as the Hungarian resolution, and with great appreciation, and with some emotional load they approach this joint Polish-Hungarian alliance in the area of the European Union, and the position of the opposition senators who have expressed a decisively critical opinion on this resolution. Senator Borowski said that in this resolution there is nothing to change, it is such a resolution of parliamentarians, Senators of Law and Justice, so let them take it, there is nothing to discuss here. There were requests to reject the resolution in its entirety, and there was also a request for an amendment, but such an amendment, which basically... The third paragraph of the resolution would be limited only to thanking you for drawing attention... I can no longer remember the exact words that Mr Rocki used at this point, in any case this amendment deprived this paragraph of the specific content, i.e., well, of the context in which all this is happening, i.e. the words about the unjustified initiation of the Article procedure. 7, a dangerous attempt at political pressure and a reduction in the sovereignty of our country, all of this would be gone. Well, then this resolution would lose its character, at least I as its author wouldn't be able to sign it. In the end, the resolution was adopted in the version in which it was presented, taking into account one of my own amendments. And I still allowed myself to make one brief amendment during the proceedings, but one of a stylistic and editorial nature, not of substance. That's basically all about the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u255	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Mark Pak to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You were the first to sign up for Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u256	Mr. Senator, the draft resolution speaks of the initiation of proceedings under Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. It's in the article. 7 are 2 different paragraphs, paragraph. 1 and 2. One says that it can end with certain sanctions, and another says that a procedure is being initiated for serious suspicion that the rule of law is being violated, etc. It's also included in the treaty. Why in this resolution there is no indication of which paragraph this procedure referred to in the resolution refers to does not indicate which paragraph of the Article. Seven's up? Is it conscious that this is an oversight? I understand that you followed the Hungarian resolution, where there is no Hungarian resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u257	Right. Mr. Marshal! Senator! Indeed, here we do not make such precise legal distinctions, because that is not the purpose of the bill. This bill is not intended to describe in detail... Sorry, resolution, this resolution is not intended to describe in detail the legal problems related to the rule of law procedure, this resolution is in fact courteous, the nature of the response to the Hungarian resolution. In the second paragraph, the Hungarian resolution is partly cited, actually these are quotes from this resolution. In general, the Hungarian resolution refers to the article. 7. The essence of this resolution is to thank the Hungarian Parliament for such unprecedented, expressive, concrete support and to provide the Senate of the Republic with such support for the Hungarian party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u258	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to thank the senator for his initiative in presenting this resolution. I would also like to stress that we are debating it and, I hope, we will take it on 15 March, namely on the 100th anniversary of Hungarian events, the Spring of the Peoples in Hungary, whose hero was General Józef Bem. We know that in Budapest there is a big rally with the participation of several thousand Poles. Prime Minister Orbán personally thanked the Poles for this joint solidarity. My question is this. As an applicant and as a representative of the applicant group, do you agree with this statement: "Hungary and Poland are like eternal oaks that grow from different trunks, but have intertwined roots, but the existence and strength of one oak is a condition of another oak. Today, when Poland is strong, Hungary cannot die, and when Hungarians are strong, they can help Poland. Respect for Poland and respect for Hungarians? Mr Orbán said these words today in Budapest. Do you, as an applicant, agree with those words... [[But does this have to do with the text of the resolution, Senator?]] It is related because there is no justification for it in the resolution. And I'm asking if the senator agrees with that statement that was made on... [[Voices from the O.R.: Don't do...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u260	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, allow the applicant to respond, then there will be applause.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, it is difficult to disagree with these statements. I also have an emotional attitude to Polish-Hungarian relations, perhaps even more to those of the contemporary ones than to those of the ancient ones. As a senator from Krakow, Senator of Krakow's Land, Podkrakow district, but a citizen of Krakow, I have felt this sympathy many times, this warmth from representatives of the Hungarian people. This is indeed a living relationship, it takes much longer than the procedure initiated by the European Commission with Article. 7, these are already established long-term relationships. Besides, our political environment has repeatedly benefited from such good political and social energy. And that's why I'm signing off on it. I even consulted with Senator Żaryn the content of this resolution and wondered about enriching it with some emotional content. However, I found that due to the courtesy nature and the reference to the Hungarian resolution, it no longer requires expansion. I wanted the resolution to be short, solid and non-inspiring some terrible controversy. Of course, I understand that it has aroused political controversy, but it seems to me that it is not an aggressive or exaggerated resolution. But, of course, the opposition has the right to disagree with her.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u262	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u263	Mr... [[Senator.]] Mr. Senator. I'm so sorry. [[Everything's in front of you.]] I mistook you for your father. [[The voice from the hall: But the father was a senator.]] [[Voice from the room: I'm also a Member.]] Mr. Senator, you praise this resolution very much, and it's terribly incomplete. She doesn't say anything about everything that is absent from the resolution of the Hungarian National Assembly, and what we know in Poland. She does not say anything about repeated violations of the Constitution by the majority ruling in Poland, including the Senate and the Seym. He doesn't say anything about not publishing the Constitutional Court's judgments. He doesn't say anything about appointing double judges and making the Constitutional Court a dummy. It does not say anything about eliminating one of the principles of our European and Atlantic community in Hungary and Poland, which are the rules of the rule of law. He doesn't say anything about restricting the freedom of action of the NGO, etc., etc. Why do you praise her if she doesn't show what is the hardest and most important thing in Poland at the moment, and what should the Hungarian Parliament defend?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u264	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The resolution doesn't contain all the elements you're talking about, because these elements are... [[Lying.]] They concern the assessment of the situation in Poland, but the evaluation of your and representatives of total opposition, not mine. I have written this resolution on my behalf and, I think, the environment of Law and Justice, which, I believe, will support it and even support it at the joint committee meeting. I am aware that, in assessing the facts and the legal situation, we are essentially, in the polar sense, different. In this resolution, I am talking first of all about the fact that it is the actions of the European institutions and their views that are contrary to the values which have been at the heart of the European Union. In this House, in plenary meetings, as well as in committee meetings, particularly the Foreign Affairs Committee, which I am a member of, I have repeatedly stressed that the European Union is currently in a very deep crisis and is moving towards a dangerous and very uncertain direction. From my point of view, this is at this point the most important problem of the European Union. This is about the future of Europe and our membership of the European Union. [[Oh, finally the truth.]] Somewhere in my heart, I have hope. It seems to me that the Polish government's relations with the European institutions have recently aroused the hope that there will be some reciprocity here, that we will really start to listen to each other seriously and see the bipolarity of the assessments. Because if we do not start, it will only aggravate the European crisis, this crisis of relations, and it will harm both Poland and... [[They're here for the ……]] ...the European Union. In fact, to a large extent this crisis is caused by the opposition, which... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...in a very instrumental way... [[Speaker's no place for jokes.]] But, Senator... [[Mr. Senator, please limit yourself to answering, it might be more...]] Okay, I'll sum it up. I have included in this resolution what I think is most important from the point of view of our relations with the European Union and our relations with Germany... with Hungary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u266	Thank you. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, a senior colleague's advice: as the marshal said, don't start on topics that cause even greater... [[Mr. Senator, question. The discussion will be.]] But wait a minute, Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question. [[Ask me a question.]] I'll be right there. It's just a matter of value. As we approach this question mark, I'll say... Senator, there's a saying: show me your friends, and I'll tell you who you are. [[Come on, let me see.]] I understand that we want to express our friendship. or as if cementing the Polish-Hungarian friendship on the basis of common objectives, as I understand it, against the actions of the European Union which, in your opinion, are illegal. I understand that this friend, going further, Mr Orbán and the Hungarians are the Russians. So let me ask you straight away: why is there no link here between what is the essence of Prime Minister Orbán's activities, that is, playing against the European Union and the community of interests with Russia? I think we should talk about it. I do not say in what context, but we should refer at all to this element of friendship. [[How can you say that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u268	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u269	Senator, on the advice of a senior senator's colleague not to open another front, I will limit myself to the answer that you misinterpret my intentions in this resolution. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Science didn't go into the woods.]] [[Because it'll be all interpretations...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u270	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u271	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Of course, the senator knows how sensitive we have been going on foreign policy lately, how much controversy has been caused recently, a few days ago by President Duda's statement suggesting some kind of dependence, equality... sorry, equality between time of partitions and participation in the European Union at the moment. And regardless of you, I'm sure the best intentions are here, because we know each other well, unfortunately this resolution somehow fits into this... [[They're just grades.]] ...a rather frontal attack against Brussels. And I would like to ask if you, in any way, consulted the possible consequences of this resolution with anyone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because I remind you that Minister Szymański last time he was here, in a very diplomatic way, but he firmly agreed with Prime Minister Olszewski's words about our recent historical policy, in which he is the primacy of trying to achieve maximum benefits in diplomacy. And in our foreign policy, once again, we are a little bit cornered, and that is why we need to rely on Hungary right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u272	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Once again, I will stress that I do not see this resolution as a resolution, as you said, somehow strongly embedded in this confrontational or difficult tone of our relationship. On the contrary, I believe that this resolution is very subdued and very mild. Halfway through this quote of the German resolution, in two sentences refers to it... [[Voices from the hall: Hungary.]] [[Of course not German.]] Excuse me, Hungarian. All I can say is that, in fact, in such a working way, I also consulted with a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u274	The question is Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the senator whether the adoption of this resolution will strengthen relations with the Visegrad Group, in which there are still Czechs and Slovaks outside Hungary. Visegrad Group's intensive work is seen in the European Union. This is why the question is: will this resolution strengthen the position of the Visegrad Group?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u276	Well, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this is a rhetorical question. Yes, it will. Any such statement by one of the highest state authorities, a constitutional state such as Poland, must strengthen relations whether it's bilateral or in a broader context. And I think the Visegrad Group needs this kind of reinforcement. The authenticity of this group and the perspective that arouses my hope for development... The point is that here these relationships are true, there are no artificial emotions in the fact that thousands of Hungarians can relate in such an emotional and warm, positive way to Poles And you, too. I therefore feel that these are measures that have a positive impact on relations in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u277	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u278	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions, one historical, one current. Namely, would you agree with such a thesis that since the Polish-Hungarian heritage is so rich and mutually reinforcing The historical past suggests that there is also a deep tradition of mutual diplomatic contacts and mutual support. It is every sovereign state, including Poland, that should not give up this heritage, should not be against this heritage, and even vice versa, i.e. Should it be derived from it? So this resolution may simply fit into, in the present reality, into this great legacy that we have thanks to the generations that live before us. And maybe that's why the opposition shouldn't insult those past generations that may not necessarily come here today and argue with the opposition. That's the first question. The second question is also for you, Senator, but also for the opposition. Would you express such inner satisfaction, Senator, if it were found that at least one paragraph of this resolution was supported both by us and by the opposition? Let me read this paragraph. The Senate of the Republic of Poland also assures our Hungarian brothers of its support for their efforts and actions to build such a European Union, which is a community of sovereign, independent and equal states, respecting each other's traditions, culture and distinctness. Do you think we can count on a consensus in this Chamber, at least as far as writing this paragraph is concerned? Or does the discussion in the Legislative Committee so far suggest that your possible optimistic view of this draft resolution must be rejected in the context of this paragraph? [[And the rest, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u279	Tough question, but answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start by answering the second question. I think there was a chance at the joint meeting of the joint committee, because Senator Rocki's amendment was headed for such a very strong... well, actually to remove the third paragraph, but as for the rest, it was Senator Rocki who did not object. So maybe there was a chance for this proposed resolution to be adopted without that third paragraph, but there would have to be a vote, there would have to be an amendment. It was a small chance, but... theoretically, it may have existed. And as for the first question, of course I would not like to enter into other people's shoes here, such as your professor's, and such historical, very ambitious reflections, but I think that in the discussion about Europe, about the European community, precisely this Polish link is missing, our work, which is connected with the relations of Poland, the Crowns, with those of our neighbours from Central and Eastern Europe, with the East, with this eastern lung, which John Paul spoke about, for example, II. We were too eager to accept the vision. I don't know how to say that. Germanocentric. At the expense of the perspective of Central Europe, we have adopted a vision of countries such as France, such as Germany, which definitely gives the tone of European integration, from the very beginning. If we are to speak seriously about partnership between European countries, Member States, equality and full European integration, we should also draw on the heritage of countries such as Poland, such as Hungary. This is, of course, a broader problem, and this is not just a problem as to whether we will have better financial, economic, political conditions in a group of Member States. This is precisely the kind of cultural, historical, religious heritage. This in the European Union all the time, I think, is missing, and that is why I believe Once again, I would like to stress that. That this living relationship between our nations gives hope that we will complement and grow. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u282	You, Senator, of course, know that there was a time when everything you dreamed of was being realized, and the voice of Poland was actually heard in Brussels, was seriously taken into account. In addition, it was still a creative voice. To prove this, I will quote two Weimar letters, one from 2010, which I co-authored, and the other from the following years. Some records are being implemented at the moment, but without us, because the voice of Poland no longer mattered in Brussels. Anything must be done to make it important again in Brussels, the capital of the European Union. As I asked you earlier about the basic issues contained in this resolution, so I would like to ask you about the political issues at the moment. Do you really think that political alliances should be maintained and strengthened with those who are censored, who are weak, or should we do what over the years was the intention of Polish diplomacy, i.e. sticking with those who are strong, meaningful and have something to say? [[Voice from the room: With the Germans.]] In other words, is it better to be in a strong club or in a weak club? [[We need to strengthen...]] To avoid the kind of answer you like to give today, e.g. Me, the answers, that it's all inventions of total opposition... [[...bad fame.]] ...I will quote the 2017 evaluation, the evaluation of the Polish Institute of International Affairs, which since 2016 has already been controlled by the new composition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... [[Voice from the room: Not fully.]] ...and who says that Viktor Orbán's foreign policy has never been consistent, and because of its low economic, military and political potential, Hungary does not play a major role in international policy. [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj...]] Do you think... I'll repeat that question. [[...is insulting all of you.]] Do you think it's better to be with one partner than with a lot of partners we've been hanging out with for years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u283	Well, this is, I think, a false question, this is a false alternative. We are to maintain such a course, which is currently consistent with the Polish state rhyme, which serves Poland as best as possible and harms as little as possible. At this point, the situation is that the Hungarian State is the only one that has so clearly and so radically determined that it will defend us against procedures that are clearly to harm us. [[27 to 1.]] [[He insults all of you.]] Because the link between the rule of law and the level of European funds is primarily unlawful from the point of view of the Treaties, as well as an action which objectively could harm Poland. Therefore, obviously in this particular dispute, Hungary is our ally and hence this resolution. But I would once again call for us to go down a little bit and move within a certain proportion, because this resolution is not intended to draw a new path in our international relations, our alliances, it is not intended to spoil anything, it is tasked to emphasize, to refer to a certain fact, which was the resolution of the Hungarian Parliament. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u285	Mr. Senator, you replied that this resolution would strengthen the integration of the Visegrad Foursome. [[Indirectly, yes.]] Yes. Therefore, I have a question for you: will Slovakia and the Czech Republic adopt similar resolutions or the same? [[What do we care?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u286	I can't answer that question, Senator. [[He can text them.]] I think... [[Can he offer them these resolutions?]] [[A voice from the room: Perhaps you'd like to propose.]] I think that the basic objective of this resolution is to strengthen the Polish-Hungarian relationship, and if it will positively radiate, radiate more widely, it is only to wish for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u287	Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Senator Żaryn asked us if we could support just one paragraph of this resolution, and read the last paragraph. But I'm wondering because there's one sentence in there that stings a little bit in the eye. The Senate of the Republic of Poland provides our Hungarian brothers, etc. Why only brothers and sisters and brothers, Senator? [[It's from civilization.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There are no sisters there.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u289	This is, Mr. Senator, a frequently repeated turn during our meetings, in mutual relations: Hungarian brothers, Polish brothers... It's just a source. [[It comes from brotherhood.]] It's about brotherhood. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You can file an amendment, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u290	Senator Fedorovich. [[Oh, me.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oh, my God!]] Everyone calm down, please allow the senator to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u291	Mr. Senator, I have listened carefully to what you have to say. This is a dramatic text, contrary to any Polish reason for the general state. But let's agree that you're a completely new politician, just a two-year internship, so I don't blame you. But if you've been kind enough to say that the opposition would like to sign up for any sentence in this resolution, then I want to remind you that to one we would have... I would have tabled an amendment if this had to go through, because, of course, you have the majority, which is hard for me to deal with... Namely, wouldn't you be gracious to write the amendment that the Senate of the Republic of Poland And I'm serious because I said it in the Hungarian Parliament a year ago, and it's in the record. Do you want to thank Hungary and Prime Minister Orbán for his support for Prime Minister Tusk during the vote on his leadership in the European Union? [[Applause]] I'm gonna file an amendment like that. I'm gonna ask your counsel to help me prepare her content. Okay? Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u292	It's hard to answer that question. I can only say that the Hungarian resolution did not refer to this issue, and therefore the Polish resolution will not refer to this issue either. I'm not gonna support that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u293	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u294	I asked about the content of this resolution, i.e. the substantive issues. I asked about the political context and strengthening the alliance. And now I'd like to ask you what this resolution is for. What is the purpose of this resolution if, according to many, or perhaps even all of us, traditional Polish-Hungarian ties are strong? They are so strong that they are so Hungarian, unrelated to any political group who apologize for the fact that such a resolution was adopted by their National Assembly, because it is an expression of political intentions and a false view of the situation in Poland. Why go to real trouble for the future if you could close your eyes and go over what happened in Budapest, on the agenda?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, I've already told you that. [[It's for debate...]] It is simply a thank-you for the resolution, which in our opinion is important, which is unique, because taken in special mode. We therefore considered that the Senate should thank in such a special way for this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u296	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question about consulting the Foreign Ministry. In addition to this support, which is like a response to a similar resolution in the Hungarian Parliament... I think that such resolutions always have an element of foreign policy. And that's why I have a question. Mr. Senator, could you tell us who you consulted at the Foreign Office? 'Cause you said you consulted it. The Senate's draft resolution? That's the first question. And the other. Do you not think that during such an important debate a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be present.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't think so, because it's a resolution. Once again, I would like to stress that. Courtesy, it's a thank you. It is not a resolution which, in a way, I would say, some creator falls into the competence of the Foreign Affairs Department and creates some new framework for foreign policy. As I say, I think the working consultation was enough. I consulted... At this point, I'm not going to tell you because I just can't remember the name of you, the proper director, who was contacted by Deputy Minister Dziedziczak. [[Mr. Marshal, in this context...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u299	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! If you can, of course, then... [[Anyway, today... today at the committee meeting, I'm sorry, I'm just gonna finish with a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with whom I still consulted the final content of this resolution and just...]] Mr. Senator, I'll tell you what I mean. Okay? I understand that... [[Personality isn't, I guess, crucial.]] Okay, that's right, except that's what I'm talking about. I would like to make an inquiry to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to state that during the debate... I don't expect that answer right now, but as in a week, two of you will find out the name of the person you've consulted with, I would ask you in writing...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u301	Good. That's easy to determine, because if you look at the transcript of today's committee meeting... [[It was that person. Yes?]] There was a representative today... [[So it was the person you consulted with. Yes? Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u302	Thank you very much. No further questions. Yes, thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. [[There is no Marshal Borusewicz, but he asked me to sign him for later, Mr. Marshal.]] There is no Marshal Borusewicz, therefore President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! With all due respect to the senator, he's breaking up. I'm gonna stress this with all my power, because we just like each other, and that's why I'm emphasising it. I must admit that this resolution is worthy of rejection, i.e. It can't be improved, it can't be worked on, because there's actually no thread here that couldn't be questioned. Firstly, this resolution is false because it responds to the incorrect resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary. I hope we all know that resolution. That resolution is simply not true. The title itself that the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary supports Poland is false, because it supports the Polish government... [[Who does he represent?]] ...the current Polish government in its policy, which is set to short with Brussels. Secondly, it is not true because it talks about the pressure of Brussels and not about the defence of the European Union authorities What we dreamed of, we wanted to join, we finally joined, played a significant role in it, and which we have strengthened for many years. . to defend the fundamental values of this European Union and its authorities, which are enshrined in Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union and have been respected for decades and have never been modified by the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty or the Nice Treaty. Finally, they were included in the Treaty of Lisbon adopted by the Polish Government and accepted by the Polish President. Let me remind you that it was a sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński. All those values, some of which have been questioned by the current authorities over the last two years. This is not the pressure of Brussels, but it is a conscious policy of controversy with Brussels. This is a conscious government policy and a parliamentary majority calculated on the dispute with Brussels. And that's how you read all these events. I'm just wondering when the dispute with Brussels, the dispute with Berlin, the dispute with Paris, the dispute with Tel Aviv, the dispute with Washington, the dispute with Kiev... [[All of them.]] ...there's gonna be a dispute with Bern. Because recently, Switzerland in the Human Rights Commission questioned what was happening in Poland, believing that in Poland there has been a significant undermining of the principle of three divisions of power in the last two years. And since Switzerland says so, according to the philosophy of the PiS government, it is also necessary to argue with it and to consider Switzerland as an adversary exerting pressure on Poland. The title of this resolution of the Hungarian Parliament itself is simply not true. And we have to ask ourselves why we should support something false. Secondly, the political context is important, not only in substance but also in political terms. Why keep with the weak if you can hold with the strong? Well, it's been such a constant dilemma for each of us since elementary school: is it better to be I don't know. In a strong team in the classroom, or better to stick with outsiders. I've always been a man of principle. Like a lot of us, I guess. It is better to hold with stronger and better, because in this way you can strengthen and learn something, rather than the one who is an outsider and is on the censored. Well, Hungarians are censored because of the actions of their government, and this government, in comparison with the Government of Law and Justice, behaves more efficiently in Europe. [[Wrong analogy.]] Because Prime Minister Orbán has such a skill that in the country Which is probably not what many of us have witnessed, and in Brussels it says otherwise. Well, I myself attended a conference convened by one of the Members of the European Parliament, one of Prime Minister Orbán's closest colleagues, three or four years ago, during which an excellent professional, Deputy Minister of National Defence, appeared, and spoke in the language we spoke at the time, defending Ukraine against the Russian invasion. So he spoke our language. Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians, Estonians, i.e. hard, unambiguous, pro-Ukrainian language. After this speech, I run to the Deputy Minister, I run to our ambassador and I say: Mr Ambassador, it is necessary to speak publicly about this, because Hungarians, so adamant about this conflict, so withdrawn that they do not expose themselves to the Russians in connection with this conflict, have finally spoken with our voice! And he tells me, Mr. Senator, don't worry about it, because that's not what they say when they know there's no press, and that's not what they say in open forums. So this is the skill that Prime Minister Orbán has: to say something different in himself and in Brussels, and therefore to be censored, but not quite so, i.e. always leave a margin of opportunity for good relations with Brussels. And the 27:1 vote is just a confirmation of that principle. So the political context is also important. Therefore, it seems to me the current question: why should we build, strengthen the political alliance with the outsider, instead of strengthening the political alliance with all those we have been with and should we be together because they are strong and influential in the club we care about, i.e. in the European Union? And the third thing that seems important to me in this discussion is the abdication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that there is no one here from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a very bad fact. Even if Senator Pęk consulted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this project, the absence of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this Chamber worries me because it threatens as you remember from the time of the Senate's reception by a majority of votes. Not by the majority of us. The amendment of the law on IPN, which turned out to be a disaster for Polish foreign policy. I don't think we need to talk about facts anymore, but they are indeed disastrous for our foreign policy. That is to say, this law deepened the crisis in Poland's relations with its surroundings, with foreign countries, caused a crisis in Polish-Israeli relations, and caused an unimaginable thing, namely a crisis in relations between Warsaw and Washington, something that simply could not have happened. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not express its opinion in the initial phase of work on this law, i.e. it actually abdicated to the Ministry of Justice in the discussion on that law. So since no one from the Foreign Office is here today, in this room, it's also a very bad sign. [[This is an outrage!]] That's a very bad sign, too. [[Disregarding the Senate.]] Because it may be that we will adopt a false and harmful resolution in the absence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should, after all, protect Polish interests abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u304	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u305	Today, I have tabled a motion to reject this proposed resolution in its entirety, and I have therefore decided to take the floor. And I will quickly refer to other matters than those raised by Senator Klich, whose thesis I fully share. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind you of the words of Senator Pęk, who said that this resolution is courtesy. I agree with that. She's courtesy. I don't think she has any... [[We'll go with the bags through those Hungarians.]] ...offensive content, etc., but I think... I tabled a proposal that we should not consider this draft resolution, that we should reject it, because it is a resolution completely unnecessary, completely unnecessary for Poles, Poland, but perhaps it is necessary for Hungary. Because if you know the content of the resolution on Poland's support for pressure from Brussels, because that is exactly what this Hungarian resolution is called... It is a resolution of the National Assembly, so that it is indeed a crazy high rank... And, as I say, I am always full of attraction, admiration for the great Hungarian nation But we should probably also say here that this resolution was needed more by Hungary than us. The text of the resolution also shows this. Because the text of the Hungarian resolution, unlike the text of our quite courtesy resolution, I dare say, is quite buńchuczny... It is such a waving of a saber, which, in relation to the situation in Poland, Hungary, etc., is probably a good term. In order not to be literal, I will quote a few passages: "We, Hungarians, do not want another Europe where freedom is limited and not developed. We do not want another Europe where greater abuse of its power, in which the sovereignty of nations is not taken into account in the field of shared competence. It's very strong, very strong... [[It's real.]] And then, after a period of 40 years behind the Iron Curtain, we have had enough dictatorships, said Hungarians. They are fed up with the dictatorship of the European Union. I don't know if we'd write a resolution like that here. I don't think we'd have gone that far. And in this resolution it is only here that Poland is mentioned, because so far it has been mentioned about Hungary: Hungary and Poland have recently encountered many illegal and unjust attacks by the institutions of the European Union. So let's not say... This is not a resolution about Poland, which stands up for Poland, because it really refers to Hungary and is needed for Hungary, and we strengthen Hungary, acting in this resolution. Besides, this is not an accusation at all towards Hungary. In the case of a small country that does not have access to the sea, I would also bet on alliances with someone strong, strong, with a country like Poland and such a country I would like to support in disputes with the European Union. [[Bravo, Basiu.]] Thank you. And one more passage: Poland and Hungary, instead of the idea of the United States of Europe, believe in the community of European nations. Instead of spreading the idea of an open society, it is our job to preserve the Christian culture. [[Voice from the room: European United States...]] Excuse me. But who cares about the idea of an open society? I don't get it at all. Why should we oppose the preservation of Christian culture, as it is already in the resolution, the spread of the idea of an open society? Why do we... do you mind? If an open society is bothering anyone, I encourage him to speak on this matter. [[This is the greatest enemy.]] So I'm thinking... I remind you that Hungary has been in the European Union for a long time the worst... was the boy to beat, the one who was the worst... And I am sure that Hungary was very pleased when it turned out that Poland had chosen the course it had chosen, that is to say, a conflict with the European Union. And I think this Hungarian resolution is very good at showing how much it is for the Hungarians that we are in this dispute. But I do not know if it is in our best interest to always participate in a dispute with the European Union, hand in hand with Hungary, and I remind you that Hungary can also not argue with the European Union. They're e.g. in EPP, which is in a party where there is also a Civic Platform. They get along great when it comes to certain things, and when you have to do it for internal politics, they wave a saber and lead a consistent policy. What should not correspond to Poland is that this policy is often close to the Kremlin. This is worth saying here, because this is unfortunately a problem, but I will not develop it. That's all I wanted to say and what I wanted to draw attention to. Thank you very much. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u306	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with memories. Senator Zdrojewska once said that she would not like to perform after me, and today I would like to say that it will be difficult to say anything after such a good speech by the senator. I will only try to add a few comments and therefore shorten my request for a few elements. Ladies and gentlemen, as Senator Zdrojewska said, the Hungarian document is a document of high rank, a document of the National Assembly. Don't you think? Now that we're talking about adequacy, Isn't it supposed to be that the minister is meeting with the director of the department? Personally, I don't think it should be like this either. Now I'm talking about legislation. In order to prevent the Polish National Assembly from responding to the resolution of the National Assembly. [[Well, that's the clou.]] This is an important element, first of all. Secondly, I would say that I did not know this resolution of the Hungarian National Assembly, but the senator quoted it, and in the meantime, Marshal Borusewicz gave me this text. Well, what I'm saying is that we're very economical in words, very economical. Let us not be afraid to support what the Hungarians say. We are not on our way with the European Union. Come on, guys, let's be honest, let's take an example. I'm talking to you. Mr. President. And what did you say to the president? What is the European Union? [[He's a conqueror.]] He's a conqueror. And some of the people sitting here from Law and Justice took part in the debate on the previous point when we discussed the European Union's money for Polish agriculture. Well, let's decide for something. It's not like you can be against it or against it. We joined a club where you respect each other, just like the senator, the author of the resolution, wrote tradition, culture and distinctness. But the rule of law or those other elements don't you have to respect? Well, let's expand this resolution, pass it on, initiate the resolution of the National Assembly, expand our position supported by the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or perhaps even the law firm of the President, because you can see that the President has a lot of good ideas about the European Union. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That would certainly be a better resolution... [[Yes.]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...more appropriate. Well, I didn't want to talk about the senator's young age. In 1990 I started an adventure in local governments and when I return to various kinds of writings and strategies of my own authorship, I say: God, it is good that man is already 60 years old. You just have to say that this text is what it is. Well, I don't want to use any... This is a text that could be directed to the meeting of our Polish-Hungarian group... [[...or other moves.]] ...or other Polish-Hungarian movements. Ladies and gentlemen, when you do anything... Parliament, the Polish Senate, is adopting such an important resolution in which we declare that we will be friends, and I want to say yes: friendship does not declare itself in resolutions. That's the general rule. Those who say much about friendship, about mutual trust, most often betray each other, and therefore I would like to say that such declarations are needed only for those who need such a document. Senator Zdrojewska said it beautifully. Hungarians need this paper because then they'll say, "See?" Poland supports us in our efforts to ensure that there is no dictatorship in the European Union. [[Exactly.]] Well, beautiful lyrics, dictatorships we've been contaminated before, and now we're a dictator again... Therefore, I would prefer that we as Poles, especially the Government of Law and Justice, Senators of Law and Justice, build alliances not against someone and not against something, but with someone and for higher purposes. Because it's usually that what you build against someone ends tragically. And if you build strong alliances with someone in a common cause, you always succeed. And we are building or trying to build an alliance with Hungary against the idea of the European Union, and that is exactly how it is written, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, in the resolution of the Hungarian National Assembly. That is why I would like to say this once again: let us reject this resolution, let us include the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is a very important document. Let us include Mr President's law firm in this, let us include the entire National Assembly in order to show our relationship not only to Hungarians, but also to our attitude towards the idea of the European Union in an adequate document. Let us show that we are not only in favour, as we discussed in the previous point, of taking money from the European Union, but also respecting the principles of the European Club. If any of you enter a house in which certain rules are observed... then you simply follow these rules. This house is the European Union and the rule of law, whether we like it or not, is one of the foundations of the European Union. And I would like us, as senators, to build such a house and such friends with various kinds of resolutions in the Polish Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u308	Thank you. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to start with that sentence Mr. Czarnobaj said, because it was very interesting and, I think, honest. Namely, he said... [[Mr. Senator, I think you're being honest, too.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, and you, too, and that's why I want to appeal to that sentence. Namely, you just said that the house you enter... the house you enter. So we can imagine. Do you support that? [[Yes.]] Yeah, that's right. I'm afraid that's the fundamental difference between us, because we're in this house, we're co-hosts of this house, and we're not guests, Mr. Senator. And in your words, she sounded... [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...fundamental difference. It's a fundamental difference. [[But you don't understand...]] You're gonna have... I obviously don't understand anything at all, Senator, but this is another subject, not necessarily at this point. But it is worth wondering if that is not the big difference between us. And the other difference... Namely, the other difference is this. And that's why I was asking Senator Pęk if you were willing to agree at least on this passage: which is a community of sovereign, independent and equal states that respect each other's traditions, culture and distinctness... [[But the rule of law isn't there.]] What is the dilemma? The fact that we don't have to be 100% agree with Hungarian politics because we are, like Hungarians, a sovereign state that respects its traditions, culture and distinctness. That's what this is. Once again the fundamental record that differentiates us from each other, the opposition and the Law and Justice today, that we and in this house are co-hosts, as sovereigns, and in addition we are willing to acknowledge that others also have the right to sovereignty. And we therefore sign up for this part of the resolutions or the National Assembly, or in this case the Senate, in which we agree with each other, because we are not violating each other's sovereignty. And when it comes to those parts where we disagree at this stage with our national interests in relation to Hungary, we keep them quiet, because that is our business today in relations with Hungary, to maintain what is common between us in terms of Hungarian and Polish interests, and not necessarily to emphasize what is separate between us in these relations, because it is in this statement that we respect other sovereign states. I apologize for talking about such an abecadle, but this is obvious from the point of view of conducting foreign policy by a sovereign state. And I'm sorry to be rude, but if you have to remind me of an abacus, because the state ruled eight years without knowing this abacus, then maybe it's a good thing that today law and justice rule. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Oh, you're very rude.]] I'm very rude. I'm very rude... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...but unfortunately I listen to the voices of ladies and gentlemen, and I have the impression that we definitely define the concept of sovereignty differently. One more... [[There's nothing worse than...]] ...something. Namely, one of the senators said that the aim of Polish policy is to maintain Brussels as a centre, as a central place of the European Union. Well, again, I must say that I do not define the sovereignty of Polish politics that way. The sovereignty of Poland's policy as a co-host of the European Union is that our main partners are not EU officials who may be Of course, this must be defined as representatives not necessarily on an equal footing with all the Member States of the European Union. The question may be asked whether they are by chance representatives of the interests of more than one group of countries, not all equally. And our interest is that we should be equal to all those countries that, like us, are members of the European Union. And I imagine perfectly a resolution e.g. supporting and expressing our thanks to France, which we would be able to draft in June 2019. I hope that if I am still a senator, we will be able to adopt such a resolution, i.e. If I were to live, because if I were dead, it would rule out the possibility of me taking part in it, to thank France for being the most important supporting force in the adoption of the Treaty of Versailles. And I can't imagine in this resolution writing about what's different about us today, France and Poland. Because just respecting this sovereignty and the distinctness of the objectives which are included in the existence of countries in general, at the same time we would stress what is important to us from the point of view of both Polish and French. Certainly the aim of Polish policy is not to sustain Brussels just because it is. The aim of Polish policy is to implement Polish interests, Polish national goals as a co-host of the project, which is, as every project, for constant verification, for continuous improvement. And that's what our sovereignty and thinking isn't based on fear, fear, and complexes. We say that we are willing to continue in this project on an equal footing with the other 26 countries and to be a co-founder of this project. And the last sentence, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, is more to the opposition. We by this resolution, regardless of the fact that it concerns the issue of an incident of course, at the same time we are in such a deep hope, I think that the vast majority of Polish society will give the right to represent Poland and Poles only such a formation that I apologize for the immodestness of Poland and Poles. She will speak with our voice, whether it be us by name or not by the voice of the state, whether it be you or any other politician who speaks like you today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, it's an unprecedented resolution. Unfortunately, I have to use this concept very often, because every now and then we have unprecedented laws. Today we have a resolution that we haven't had in the history of the Senate. The draft resolution was submitted the day before yesterday, immediately. The time to work on it has been shortened and today the draft is on the agenda of the Senate. This resolution is not so much about Polish-Hungarian relations as... We love the Hungarian brothers... [[And sisters.]] [[And sisters, too.]] ...and sisters, we love and know how much we had in common: fortunately, few conflicts and many common interests. But this resolution does not only apply to Polish-Hungarian relations, it concerns the situation in Poland. And that's what we're discussing. Those who are the authors of the resolution believe that nothing bad is happening in Poland, that everything is okay, and that the European Union, in which we are, is unauthorized and perhaps because it does not know what is really happening, interferes with our affairs. Well, something is happening in Poland. 6 or 8 amendments to the Constitutional Court Act For some reason. The PiS has taken over the Constitutional Tribunal and now says: appeal to the Constitutional Tribunal. [[And who picked the judges before time?]] [[The voice from the room: But this case was already...]] Another thing: public media. You've taken over the public media. You're watching what's going on out there, and what's the style of polemics, what does this information look like? Are these our shared media, or are they no longer our shared media? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[They were all ours.]] These public media, which are, are the propaganda of the rulers, and is governed by the PiS. The issue of the independence of the courts. You've changed the law on courts... [[It's not about that.]] The Minister, the Attorney General, may freely dismiss and appoint the heads of departments or the Presidents of the courts of all levels. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you have an influence on the courts? Not yet, but you're about to. Come on, the D.A.'s office. Changes to the D.A. Act introduced the rule that the Attorney General, who is a politician, could interfere in any case and decide whether to investigate or send an indictment. And that's what he's doing. How many investigations are there against the Platform's politicians? How many investigations are there against opposition policies, and how many are there against your politicians? I can see that. And this is the situation within Poland. What is the situation inside Hungary? About that in a minute. Of course, I would like to thank Prime Minister Orbán for voting in favour of Donald Tusk as President of the European Council. [[Applause]] I want to thank him for that. I understand that... and I suspect that this resolution of the Hungarian Parliament is related to this. It was signed by the President of the Hungarian National Assembly László Kövér, whose views I know. And this resolution is part of his views. What are the today's Hungarys that we support? Because this resolution is more necessary for Hungary than for us than for Poland, than even for the PiS government. What is today's Hungary? But you also have to think about what the Visegrad Foursome is like. After all, this is a situation in which Hungary and Poland, together supporting each other, are moving away from this Foursome of Visegrad. You will not get support from Slovakia or the Czech Republic. I'm sure of it. So if you don't support that, that means that this kind of action is blowing up this system from the inside out. What is today's Hungary? Orbán, when he wasn't prime minister, came to Poland, we trained him here in printing... I knew him. Not from this period, from a later period As a liberal democrat. Now he is a critic of liberal democracy and points out Russia, China and Turkey as examples of countries he wants to lead others towards. He wants to lead Hungary You're welcome. But we want to go this way? [[I think Orbán's gonna take you to court...]] [[This is unacceptable.]] [[The dictator...]] Hungary now, ruled by Fidesz, supports Russia's interests. They have the closest relationship with Russia. They support Nord Stream 2, invest in Russian technology, Russian money... [[You only read the Vocal Gazeta. Read something else.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] They're investing in Paks... Mr. Senator Ryszka... [[Voice from the hall: A little culture...]] ...can you stay out of this? You can sign up for this. Don't interrupt me. [[Calm down, please.]] [[Voice from the room: You can't listen to this.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...Paks, Nord Stream... Hungarian policy is now anti-Ukrainian. Hungary demands autonomy from Ukraine, as well as from Slovakia and Romania, but the situation in Ukraine is special. This is an anti-Ukrainian action in a situation where Ukraine is bleeding in conflict with Russia. Is it in our best interest? I don't think so. I understand that Hungary still remembers and is in such opposition to the Treaty of Trianon, but the situation has changed. Before the war Hungary was a revisionist state in a very good deal with us. That's what happened. Unfortunately, this is a Hungarian policy. Do we want to be in this Hungarian car on these issues? Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal!]] Now. ...I want to make an amendment. Since Hungary has such good relations with Russia and Prime Minister Orbán with President Putin, I would like to propose an amendment to add the following paragraph after the third paragraph:.At the same time, the Senate of the Republic of Poland asks the Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orbán, given his good relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin, to support the return of the wreckage of the Polish aircraft which crashed in 2010 at the airport in Smolensk. I am sure that this amendment will be voted on, but I also request that this resolution be rejected if this amendment does not pass. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u312	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. [[Now Mr. Fedorovich is leaving this room.]] [[From a serious Senate, you make a circus, a seym circus.]] [[The Senate circus.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As in the resolution: I note with appreciation and satisfaction the fact that it was adopted on 20 February this year. by the Hungarian Parliament resolution on Poland's support for the pressure of Brussels. The assistance and support expressed in this way by our Hungarian friends come at the most necessary moment. At the time of the massive attack on Poland, not only the institutions of the European Union, but also other external environments outside Europe. According to the proverb that friends get to know each other in poverty, Poles once again receive proof of brotherhood with the Hungarian people. I take this resolution as a confirmation and reference to the historical traditions linking both countries and nations from the adoption of Christianity in the X century, through the personal union in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, the Spring of the Peoples, to the latest times of fighting the communist regime and joining the European Union. I share the view that observed for about 2 years EU bodies aim to reduce the fundamental rights of Poland arising from our membership of the European Union. Brussels' interference in the internal affairs of our country has no legal basis, an attempt to take the power of EU officials into the spheres which the Treaties leave to national governments. This senseless and harmful activity of the officials of the European Commission and the European Parliament leads to the antagonization of individual peoples within the European Union. The additional effect is to reduce the high level of support for integration, as per European standards, expressed by Polish and Hungarian societies. The question is whether reducing this support, dissuading Hungarians and Poles from Europe, is not a hidden and far-reaching goal of EU pseudo-Strategists. They were frightened by the success of our countries, rapid economic growth and increasing competition on our part, so they are trying to push us outside the Union, or at least leave us in the so-called grey zone. Second speed. Some countries of the old Union shall usurp their right to impose so-called. democratic standards and, at the same time, often fail to comply with these standards. Hungary and Poland are not allowed to introduce solutions which are the norm in Western Europe, as this is a violation of democratic principles. Paradoxically, this is often said by those who have never been elected democratically to any of these positions. As a result, there is an attempt to restore the new iron curtain, to re-divide Europe, this time into fully sovereign states, and those who are less slow to control, which are supposedly unstabilized democracy. It is good that Poland and Hungary do not agree to such a kind of neocolonialism. The recent actions of the European Commission and the European Parliament, the fixation of the focus on Poland and Hungary as the main problem of the European Union created in the minds of the Eurocrats, leads to a weakening of the Union itself. The European Union does not solve the real problems facing it. This is an uncontrolled influx of immigrants, terrorism, Brexit, regional separatist movements, reducing economic competitiveness, increasing lack of transparency and democracy in decision-making processes, lack of a vision of development accepted by the Member States, and instead promoting and imposing ideas contrary to the views of most European societies and even the founding fathers of the European Union. As a result, the Union is losing time, strength and resources without production. The European Union must now be protected from itself. This role falls on Hungary and Poland. Paradoxically, both our countries are now guardians, the greatest advocates of defending the principles, the foundations on which European integration was built. I consider it particularly important and valuable that Poland assures our Hungarian brothers of its support for their efforts and actions to build Europe of homelands, communities of sovereign, independent and equal states. Poland will oppose attempts to exert extra-legal pressure on Hungary, initiate procedures to force Hungary to give up its sovereign rights to the EU institutions. Poles will help Hungary when they are in need. And for that I am proud of Poland. Finally, a quote from the Hungarian resolution: The Hungarian National Assembly calls on the Hungarian Government to stand up for Poland, not to violate Poland's rights guaranteed by the EU Treaty, and not to support such proposals as would restrict the exercise of fundamental rights arising from Poland's membership of the European Union. It is good that we heard these words defending Poland from the illegal and unfair actions of the European Union first from Hungary. The easier and more legitimate it will be for the Senate of the Republic of Poland to support the Polish government in its relations with the European Union, because this resolution is also a clear support for our government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u314	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Many arguments have already been put forward to justify this resolution. They could be summarised simply like this: this resolution is an attempt to evaluate a political act, a resolution of the Hungarian Parliament, our evaluation, an evaluation of a certain political formation in our Senate. She doesn't have to be supported by everyone. We can be different about her, because it's a matter of assessment. And that's normal. Some of us will support it, others will criticize it, and everything will be decided in the vote. Actually, I would never have come forward to say this, but I felt compelled to speak after Senator Klich's speech. Mr. Senator Klich has a beautiful opposition card, which, of all means, deserves respect. That is why I was astonished by the words of the senator, which I understood in such a way that it is better to keep with the strong, that one must hold with the strong, that is, with the European Union, and not with the weak Hungarians. If I misunderstood, Senator, I'm sorry, I have no evil intentions. You can deny it. But I listened very carefully. How many times do you say, I listen to you very carefully. That doesn't mean I'd love to. Sometimes, yeah. I remember, in particular, our conversation on a common political foreign journey, in which I learned a lot about your activity at the Krakow centre behind communes. I am very grateful, but this right, this advice, this political directive, that it is better to keep with the strong than with the weak, with some Hungarians, that I cannot say that I am right. More than that, I must protest against it. Because you don't support someone or anything just for political reasons or business reasons. We Poles know more than that. We know such a concept as "values." The Union also refers to them. More than that, we know a concept like "honor." I have the conviction that all our opponents who fought against the commune in terrible conditions had regard to honor. Self-esteem and the Polish people. Minister Beck rejected the allied proposal in 1939 and said that Poles appreciate their honour better. If we didn't then, perhaps there'd be some reason for the senator's statement. But the Poles didn't do it. If we had joined the stronger ones, or Germany, we would have taken part in the shameful expedition of Drang nach Osten. We would then be co-responsible for all German crimes. [[Applause]] We've turned down the collaboration. The Polish people chose to fight. He decided to fight underground and created the largest underground army in Europe at that time. He paid a great price for it. It is not that we do not value European integration, but we cannot unconditionally accept the right that Brussels politics is imposing on us, just because they are stronger there, that there are many of them and that they are richer, and we are poor and we are trying to reach their level of prosperity. We value sovereignty and do not demand, as Senator Czerwiński rightly said, anything extraordinary. We want our sovereignty to be respected within the framework of the European Treaties. We want to respect European law, but where it does not apply to us, we have the right to prefer our own interests and our own right. We have the right to defend our sovereignty in the way we respond to such a terrible phenomenon as the influx of millions of refugees, immigrants from the African and Asian continent to Europe and in the way we interpret fundamental rights that we fully respect. We put them in the constitution. However, we do not accept the European interpretation that is being imposed on us. Not in all cases. The Polish Constitutional Tribunal made a clear statement to this effect. Let me remind you that it is not the judges you call understudy, it is the judgment of 2009, in which the Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that in the event of contradictions, the Polish Constitution has priority over European law. I stress: the constitution. [[You just have to follow it.]] [[You have to respect the constitution.]] It must be read as the highest law, as the article says. 8. [[It has to be respected first and foremost.]] That's why I want us to agree on one thing. We have the right to be guided by business policy. Everyone's following them. The Polish people are also guided by values, and the reasoning and interpretation of these values cannot be imposed on us from outside. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u316	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Marshal Severinski, we thank you for this speech. In fact, your speech should be followed by an end to the discussion. I consider it a very good summary of our activities here in the Senate. But the next senators signed up, so I'm going to continue my speech. There were words about courtesy, non-courtesy, courtesy. I would also like to thank Senator Pęk for this initiative and I would like to draw attention to the fact that Poland is the larger, stronger country, with four times the population. And we thank you because that's what upbringing and courtesy are all about. We thank the Hungarians. And this is a very good initiative. In 2016 the Portuguese Parliament Here I would like to refer to some aspects of the statements of the senators about the resolutions that we are adopting, he adopted a resolution addressed to the UN, in which he pointed out that very many Christians are dying in the world. It's actually in Poland gone without a special... No one took it, and they didn't notice. Today, when I have a richer senator experience, I would propose to the Senate that we support this kind of resolution. And at that time I only wrote a letter to the Portuguese Parliament, as president of the Polish-Portuguese Parliamentary Group, expressing support. We have the right to make resolutions. This isn't creating foreign policy, this is the role the Senate has. Pay attention to certain situations that occur in the world. If, within the Visegrad Group, we are trying to strengthen cohesion policy... two hours ago, you were asking a lot of questions to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. And please answer me now, will Poland itself in cohesion policy have a greater breakthrough in order to reduce differences in the levels of national economies, or will it be larger if it has other countries behind it? Well, if she's got other countries behind her. Since, under the Hungarian Presidency, the Visegrad Group has adopted such resolutions that cohesion policy should continue to favour countries with lower levels of living, including agriculture, within the 2020 financial framework... Well, I guess that's a good direction. And the question to the Deputy Minister about how quickly it will eliminate the differences in agricultural subsidies is, in fact, a question to the European Commission. How soon will the European Commission address these differences in EU subsidies? I would like to stress that your friends from the opposition were also actively involved in the work of the Visegrad Group's parliaments. At that time, the Hungarian Presidency was the Hungarian Presidency and it was the Hungarians within the Visegrad Group who took us all in order to strengthen our voice in the European Commission. If the voice is much stronger about posted workers... We turned off the drivers as mobile workers. I do not know how this will end, but there are 62 million people in the European Union behind this vote, not just 38 million. If we have drawn attention to a family-friendly programme that is not being implemented in all countries of the European Union... It's not that we bring refugees or, otherwise, people to work. No, let's have our own citizens. Only this pro-family policy must sound right in the European Commission. It was very nicely presented by a Member of the opposition, Mr Mroczek, speaking about a common arms policy. We are not to thank the Hungarians for supporting us, for example. If we can build a common combat vehicle within the Visegrad Group? It's not a secret. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But information in relation to...]] [[But we don't thank you for that.]] [[Thank you for something else.]] Thank you for all this. [[And for the wine?]] And I believe that the support of Hungary and thanking Hungary for supporting us in the European Union is not just an expression of our politeness, but it is our duty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u318	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'd say, in a slightly surprising way, we've triggered this very interesting and important discussion on topics beyond just the content of this An important initiative and resolution. Well, the discussion clearly goes beyond the thematic framework and hence my voice in the discussion. As for the resolution itself, in this speech, a very noble colleague of the initiator, Mr. Senator Pęk, one thing has bothered me a little bit. Namely, there was a statement in it that in fact this is the position of the law and justice environment. And Senator Zarin's voice, the question is, isn't there something that we could have in common, that was a question that I wanted to ask, too. However, the Senate's resolution should be something more than the position of one environment, because otherwise we kind of depreciate, in my opinion, the position of the Senate. The position of the Senate is more than a position, even the most appropriate, of the PiS Parliamentary Club. In preparing such a resolution, it is necessary to try to some extent at least, although it does not always work, it is not always possible to find such a point that it could be a common position. This is the first case. [[Applause]] The second thing that, unfortunately, bothers me, too. Well, I'm a little uncomfortable because there are no representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here. However, we are dealing with international issues, and I do not want to go too far again in the last few months we have had a series of different initiatives coming from different places where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been, while the international effects have been and are very visible. This should give us a moment to talk about the environment that currently governs the thinking. As far as the debate with Senator Klich is concerned, Senator Sewerinski has served me, and I will not repeat it. Well, that touched me, too. I think, Mr. Senator, there were times when you didn't hang out with the stronger ones, did you? I'm curious. [[We're gonna talk about this right now.]] [[An ugly girl at the release.]] ...answers, so that I look forward to this replica with interest. On this occasion, the most important thing on my part 'Cause it was that kind of comment. Very serious and very important, namely the issue of sovereignty, the relationship of sovereignty or the value of sovereignty and being in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we as Poles know, I think, how Well, I don't want to fall into some kind of exaltation here. A small European nation, the price of sovereignty. What others got for half-free, what they have, so to speak, naturally, we fought for the highest price. And that's why we're so sensitive. However, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to... Well, it must be honest with itself that the European Union should, of course, respect its sense of sovereignty and create space for a sense of sovereignty, but the European Union is not an undertaking in which the idea of sovereignty is the most important and connecting idea. Entering the European Union, just as you enter a common home... This metaphor of the house is very helpful here. When we enter the common house Whether it's just a guest or a co-host, we're limiting our sovereignty to some extent. And we agreed, voluntarily. It wasn't like under lockdown that somebody imposed on us and there was pressure... Now we say we have a sense of pressure. No, we are voluntarily elected by our representatives in free elections... And here the one who even signed the Treaty of Lisbon was President Lech Kaczyński. We remember these discussions then held, also about sovereignty. But we value this sovereignty within the Union, and we have great sensitivity in this regard, but we are limiting it to some extent. Many examples could be given here, even the most daily: if we establish a law in Poland, if a government or parliament establishes a law, even though we have this interpretation of the primacy of the Polish Constitution over European law. There is always a question about the compatibility of this law with European Union law. This is a clear limitation of our sovereignty, to which we agree. And we shouldn't have any discomfort about that. But it is a clear limitation of sovereignty and there is no need to pretend otherwise. I don't think there's a problem here after all. Because today there is a problem, the problem of Poland or the European Union at all. In my opinion, it does not come down to the question of sovereignty or someone's desire to rip out this sovereignty. The problem lies elsewhere, in my opinion. The problem is what the Union is built on, that is, in a community of values. The point is that today in Europe there are huge differences in the understanding of fundamental values. The rule of law... On this point, in my opinion, there is no dispute or difference between Poland and Europe. The rule of law is valued in Poland, and in Europe, it is valued by the current government and was valued by previous governments. The dispute is about interpretation and the fact that... I would not like to develop it again, but in my opinion Poland, the Polish government is unfairly attacked for violating the rule of law. Why? I don't want to develop it. This attack, however, is unfair. The freedom of the media in Poland is excellent, regardless of the fact that sometimes we can watch public television without satisfaction. However, media freedom is more than just a matter of television or public media. The freedom of the media in Poland is excellent, in my opinion much better than in those countries that occur today from the position of mentor. The same is true of the matter of the courts, perhaps they will... but I don't want to develop it anymore. As for the rule of law, as for values, there is no dispute. However, there are disputes and there are differences that have not been discussed here. Like a basic issue like understanding a family. What is a family in Europe today? And here there are very fundamental differences. In my view, it is at this level that we should discuss, in order to actually approximate positions, those problems that are real. Differences in family understanding, differences in human rights... I repeat, I have said this before: is the basic human right to have an abortion? In many European countries, our partners, our friends believe that one of the fundamental human rights is the right to have abortion. We think... most Poles, regardless of political options, think that this is not a fundamental human right. That's so much of my comment, a little surprising, because we've broadened the scope of this discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u320	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are happy to quote this proverb, which we all know in Polish, and which in Hungarian is: Lengyel, magyar sét jó barát... A Pole, a Hungarian, two nephews... [[Hungary...]] That's what it sounds like. There's another part... Lengyel's a Pole. Yes, Mr. Marshal. [[But... it's plural.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you will report in correction mode.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proverb has been implemented in practice by our Hungarian brothers. And we see it today. It's not just a saying. In an emergency situation, they really felt this brotherhood. What are the facts? Because I don't want to get too far away from the subject, we're finally talking about a draft resolution. Firstly, the fact is that the only Member State of the European Union, which is so consistently defending Poland within the European Union, is Hungary. Secondly, the Hungarian Parliament committed the government in an unprecedented manner, and also called on Hungarian MEPs to continue supporting Poland. It's a pretty special situation. Thirdly, everything indicates that the vast majority of Poles, Hungarians, and also In my opinion, it is an undisputed fact that an increasing number of citizens of other Member States of the European Union want a sovereign, independent and equal Union that respects its own traditions, cultures and distinctness. An increasing number of citizens, citizens of the Member States of the European Union want the European Union based on traditional values, Christian values, and also, referring to various great words, on solidarity which in Poland... There's some sort of controversy about who you have to deal with, too. Solidarity is hanging out with everyone, with our friends, with our brothers, with our fellow citizens. This is what the European Union wants more and more citizens from the Member States of the Union. Fourthly, in my view, it is also undisputed that throughout the Union there is increasing criticism of EU politicians who apply political pressure to individual countries and who are also trying to limit national sovereignty. This criticism is obviously growing. It is particularly visible in our countries, Hungary and Poland, but also the results of the elections, the recent elections that take place in the next countries of the European Union, indicate that this phenomenon is growing by a great wave. The citizens of the Union are fed up with those practices which have been applied to date or are being applied by the establishment of the European Union. Another fact is that both Poland and Hungary are democratic states of law. Regardless of what people are saying, just go out into the streets, just look into the first newsstand, just turn on the TV to see that there are many things that need to be changed in Poland, Hungary and across Europe. But we are democratic states of law which, in their own way, in accordance with both their rights and the rights of the European Union, order matters that remain in their exclusive competence. They have the right to do so in accordance with the Treaties of the Union. Finally, it is also a fact that the relations between Poland and Hungary are absolutely unique. I have also experienced this in the last two years as Minister of Health. No other EU country or country in the world is going with the hope of such good cooperation, certainly such good cooperation in every forum and in every area. This is actually brotherhood. A far-fetched brotherhood. Well, the summary of these facts that I mentioned, these six facts, can be just one thing to thank. It is appropriate to cultivate this brotherhood and this friendship. I am convinced that it is also time for our parliament to go a step further, it is time for us at some point to adopt a similar or even a twin resolution obliging the Polish government, which is today fulfilling this obligation, and also appealing to the Polish MEPs to behave in such a way as to support the solidarity of our 2 countries, and also to show through this cooperation that the European Union is our dream. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u322	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lech... [[Oh, my God, it's so ……]] ...Leska Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'm going to say a little bit as a correction, because during Senator Zarin's speech, my name came up... I'd like to explain something, Senator, because maybe I've been misunderstood. I was largely served by Professor Bobko. When I came in, I didn't mean the present time, that we were waiting for the entrance. This should be understood only in such a way that, when entering anywhere, certain rules must be followed. So, speaking of this, I meant that when we entered the European Union in 2004, we signed what Professor said about under certain declarations about how we would proceed and what we would observe. Of course, what concerns differences is obvious. And as the Professor said, you should talk about them, support them, and choose the best solutions. So I didn't say we were in the waiting room. However, I am opposed to such an attitude that first we enter somewhere, whether in the European Union or anywhere, into a club, and then we look around and say: I'm sorry, but we don't like it here, it's not the room where we went in, it's not the rules. That's what I wanted to say in this context. And the other thing. You were talking about abecadle, teaching. It's just that... we just had a couple of professors speaking, but I'd like to point out two. I'm not saying which performance was better, which was worse, because it's not for me to judge. On the contrary, I'm the one who's waiting for the grade, because it's the professors who always judge us. But what I'm saying is that we had one speech in which the professor said, let's think, let's discuss, let's find a solution. And there was another man of science who said, "This is how it is to be." And that's the difference within the Polish school. If the baby... I hope that when my grandchildren get to a professor who will inspire thought rather than lecture, Senator Żaryn, then, I hope, my children will be more like... sorry, then my grandchildren will be more like that professor who inspires, and not teaching as part of teaching the abecada of conduct. And finally, I would like to say that I would like to thank you very much. I'll thank the Professor so gently, Professor, because once I thanked him and what happened... I hope I didn't do any good. But I'm gonna say that with great appreciation and understanding, I'm listening to the Professor, though... [[Give me a name.]] Please? [[Give me a name because you don't know who it is.]] That's what I'm talking about, Senator. It's not about pointing a finger at someone. It's about a matter that you've been appealing to the Professor for the idea to be discussed, not directly a specific man. I want to say that we can discuss and in some passages we will have different opinions, but I want to say that it was mostly, let's say, a big feast for my ear when I listened to people who were appealing to us in this way and saying what we would do. And lastly, I'd like to thank you. I don't do that very often. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, because that was very nice, too. I would like to say that I will print out this speech and read it as a declaration of law and justice, a declaration of love for the values of the European Union, a declaration, as I understand it, of some of the Senators of Law and Justice. Mr. Senator, if you don't mind, I'm gonna go public with this great performance. [[You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u324	Thank you, Senator. [[No problem.]] And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Mr Jackowski, we do not agree to the laptop.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but still... [[Battery's offline.]] [[Voice from the hall: Speaker coming down from the podium?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming back, he's coming back with a card.]] [[Please don't disturb me. The senator is ready...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for this... [[...for a speech. You're welcome.]] ...an intervention. High Izbo! What are some of the thesis in these speeches that we have witnessed? In one of the speeches, I heard the venom of dislike of the democratic choice of Hungarians, the team ruling over the Danube and all the evil that this crew supposedly committed. It is even weirder for me that a representative of the group, who, with the group that won the elections in Hungary, sits in one group, the European People's Party. So I don't understand something. That means we're dealing with some kind of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is, as you know, a split personality. You'd like to say, doctor, heal yourself. Second line. We have heard that alliances should be made with strong ones. That was very significant. Here I would like to thank Senator Żaryn and Marshal Sewerynski for paying attention to the essence of this debate. Because this debate is really a debate about sovereignty and sovereign or non-sovereign mentality. And the manifestations of these different mentalities have given us an opportunity to experience eye and ear here. If we're going to make alliances Only with the strong, it means that the state's right or the national interest is irrelevant. The important thing is to do what the strong want. What does that mean? This means that, in fact, those who have spoken such words will admit that they have a vassal mentality toward the stronger ones. Wa-sal-na men-tal-ity. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] And these buzzings are the best way to prove that I'm at the heart of this case. Thank you very much... [[Thank you, Senator...]] But I'm not done yet. [[Uh-huh.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[I'm sorry. Sorry, not yet... don't clap, Mr. Senator hasn't finished yet. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Proceed.]] So we're dealing with a vassal mentality, realized over the years on the principle that we sit quietly at your table, and when we sit quietly, some crumbs fall off it, maybe we feed a little bit, and it'll be okay. And this mentality has dominated our European policy for years. The moment it changed, all kinds of grunts began. And I would like to remind the House that Donald Tusk would never have been President of the European Council if it had not been the will of Chancellor Angela Merkel. I think everyone's gonna agree with me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And what kind of business did Mrs. Angela Merkel have in supporting this candidacy, I think everyone is able to tell themselves. Another case that trumped some of the speeches: fru-stra-tion. Fru-stra-tion. Frustration for a simple reason. The doctrine of Grzegorz Schetin, which was probably coined in December 2015, the street and abroad did not work. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The street itself died, while abroad and the policy of internationalising internal conflicts in Poland in the European arena, which was to be culminated in the launch of the article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union completed by default I do not know whether conscious or unconscious, we will probably hear in replicas after this speech of mysting of sanctions against the Polish state... And what do we see? For a few weeks we have witnessed an imagination of the fact that the whole concept of foreign policy is hanging in Hungary, who are variable, who can advise us at a crucial moment and will be triggered by this procedure, because no one else in Europe supports us. Today we know And this has been known since the beginning for smart analysts and observers of the international scene, that there is a much larger group of countries that will not support the article. 7. Not just Hungary. Hungary has done this in the most spectacular way, but it is already known that there is a group of at least 8 countries which will not support the request to vote in the European Council. And here is the frustration that what was supposed to be a political strategy of the opposition has gone bankrupt, because it turns out that problems in the European Union are objective, not dupe. The problem of ideologists is that they take their prejudices and ideas for reality, and reality is completely different. And from this point of view, you can see why this resolution, which is polite, raised this kind of... well, debate. And thank you very much to all the participants of this debate, because at least everyone could define himself as to what views he has on these fundamental issues for the sovereignty of the Polish state. I would like to conclude by quoting what Prime Minister Orbán said today during the rally on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Hungarian revolution in 1848, whose hero was General Józef Bem. Today, exactly on March 15th, there was a huge rally in Budapest, there was a powerful group from Poland. This group was addressed by Prime Minister Orbán in his speech, which I recommend to everyone because he expressed a number of issues which concern today's Europeans, although they are not always present in the politically correct public debate on this subject in Europe. In one paragraph, Prime Minister Orbán said this: "The nations of Europe have woken up, settled down, and are about to rise up. The peoples of Europe understood that their future was at stake. Not just prosperity and comfortable life, work, but our security and peace are at stake. Finally, the nations of Europe sleeping in prosperity understood that the principles on which Europe was built were at risk. And that is the thought of Prime Minister Orbán I leave to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u326	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u327	I'm concerned about the evolution of your views, Mr. Marshall. I'm addressing Marshal Sewerinski. In fact, I remember a series of conversations that we had years ago. We really talked about the latest history and how we managed to fight freedom for our country, but we also talked about international policy. And as you remember, you remember that also about Poland's place in the world. We haven't talked about the rule of law and your understanding of the rule of law, because then we'd probably argue like we've been arguing in this room in the last two years. But, I remember, we did not argue about how we came to this position in the European Union, which Poland achieved after 10 or 11 years of presence in the EU family. And she achieved it because she tried to pursue her national interests in various alliances. Such a fundamental idea for these interests to be realised was the Weimar Triangle, which, as François Heisbourg said two years ago, one of the most outstanding modern specialists in strategic thought, I disagreed with him. It's a dead triangle. I think he's kind of frozen right now, but there's gonna be a time when he's gonna be frozen and he's gonna support our business again. The Weimar Triangle was nothing but an alliance with the strongest in the European Union, i.e. France and Germany. It was designed so that Poland could move from new members of the Union to the first European league, although unfortunately we still do not qualify in terms of economic potential for this first league. It must be said clearly and openly: Poland is a middle-sized country, one of the six largest countries of the European Union, but not the largest, but in economic terms, a country for achievements. [[Developed.]] Seven from the end, in terms of GDP per capita, Mr. Senator. On the current list of 28 Member States of the European Union, we are the seventh country from the end. We have promoted in the last 14 years, praise God, from third place to seventh place from the end. And that is the measure of our economic potential. [[That's why...]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm paying attention to you. Please don't disturb me.]] If we want to continue to be promoted, we need to establish alliances that will benefit our country, those that will not draw us out of the top league, but will stabilise our position in this league. And that is why I consider the alliance with the strong states of the European Union, Mr Marshal, to be appropriate, reasonable and consistent with the Polish state. I regret that in the last two years, due to the dispute with France and the dispute with Germany, caused by the policy of the PiS government, this alliance has been seriously violated. Our ambassadors are present in Berlin and Paris, but their voice is insignificant. The voices of our ambassadors sounded different two or three years ago. Mr. Marshal, I was very concerned in your speech about this comparison, which I also found in President Andrzej Duda's last speech. I'll call it something else: a statement I found in President Andrzej Duda's speech. This is about comparing the situation of a sovereign country in a family of free countries, i.e. Poland in the European Union, with the situation of a non-sovereign country and non-sovereign citizens in the Polish People's Republic and the situation of a sovereign country on the eve of World War II. These comparisons cannot be used because they are inadequate situations. I am talking about the current situation of Poland in the European Union, a free country among free countries, and a situation of lonely Poland in September 1939, Poland, which had, let's say, fictional alliances with its partners. Now Poland is integrated into both the NATO structure and the European Union structure. The last two sentences, Mr. Marshal. The situation of Poland, the situation of Polish politicians who care about Polish interests, cannot be compared to the situation of the opposition to which I belonged and which supported the weaker ones, because we, the weaker, fought for values. And now the government of the Republic of Poland, the current government of the Republic of Poland, undermines the values which the club, which is the European Union in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, and the club, which is NATO in the light of the 1949 Washington Treaty, will consider as its own. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] These are the values of democracy based on freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u328	Period. Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u329	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will not argue with the statements that have been made during our discussion. The Meritum of this resolution is clear. We simply want to thank the Hungarian Parliament for having adopted an emergency resolution on 20 February this year to support Poland against the pressure of Brussels. As it was said here, it was adopted in a situation where it is possible to initiate a procedure with Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union, an unjustified procedure which is a dangerous attempt to exert political pressure and limit national sovereignty on matters which are their sole competence. Each of us probably has different experiences with Hungary, with Hungarians, with the Hungarian state. Several thousand Poles are currently in Hungary to celebrate a national Hungarian holiday commemorating the outbreak of the 1848 Uprising and the struggle for freedom. From the very beginning I was fascinated by the person of Prime Minister Orbán, who was fascinated by the fact that this man, who promised a lot in the election campaign, began to implement all this consistently, and all these promises were connected with the national interest of Hungary. I would now like to recall some of these points. When Orbán took over the rule in 2009, after eight years of left-wing governments, he took over the country with a negative GDP increase, with a huge deficit in the public finance sector, with a public debt, with a programme of drastic expenditure reduction, which he managed in 2008. International Monetary Fund. After a year, the government of Prime Minister Orbán not only brought the finances straight, but also decided to confront the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, abandoning the aid programmes that these institutions wanted to continue. It was Orbán who dared to tax the banks. We remember what a scream it was. Within 3 years, from 2010 to 2012, it taxed banks of between 0,15% up to 0,5% the balance sheet total. For 3 years, the revenue crisis tax, which is actually turnover tax, taxed large-area trade, telecommunications, energy. Success? Since 2013, in Hungary, the corporate income tax rate is only 10%. and is the lowest in Europe This is only the case in Cyprus. Personal income tax? 16%. Family relief? You can deduct 17 grand from the tax if there's a family with three children. Yeah, and so on. It could be continued. Orbán's statement summing up this excellent development of Hungary is very interesting. He said it wasn't the government that kept the country, but the citizens who cared about the nation and its values. They're the ones that keep you up. But I don't want to talk about the economy anymore. As a Catholic journalist, I am interested in Orbán's comments on the Christian identity of Europe. I was moved by his words from the lecture he gave on 15 April 2014 in Bilbao at a conference entitled "Christian response to Europe's challenges." He said: "The man of Europe cannot embezzle his Christian identity. This should be understood in Brussels! That's a quote. So by developing Orbán's thought: today Europe is the only continent in the world, where a large part of the political elite believes that it will be able to set up a world without God and his rights. Orbán said in this lecture I quote: "Today in European politics there is a vision of aggressive secularism, called development, and in Brussels its followers are mostly and want this view to become the future. According to Orbán, the man formed by European civilization is not entirely able to remove this Christian identity and therefore considered it senseless to force this new community of European identity, which does not accept the basic pact that the moral framework of Europeans' lives sets the foundation It's a message from the Decalogue. Orbán referred to such an example: if we can steal from each other through bank manipulation, why punish pickpockets? The point is that today, moving away from any element of Christian values leads to a huge moral confusion. According to the head of the Hungarian government, today's European policy is based on two false grounds and this is at the very heart of the current crisis. Orbán's first mistake was as follows: in the history of Europe, Christianity did not play a decisive role. If that's what anyone thinks, it's a serious mistake. And this view was expressed in the fundamental document of the European Union, in the Maastricht Treaty, and also in the Lisbon Treaty, in which any reference to God and Christianity was rejected. The second mistake, according to Orbán, is the view that institutions and the hierarchy of values in the Western world can be created and maintained without the foundations of Christian order. Orbán draws a concrete conclusion from these errors: the need for a Christian renewal of Europe today; without returning to its sources, Europe will not regain its former glory and even its ability to compete. So it's also not going to be an economic competition. I remember that after that lecture in Bilbao, various questions were asked to Orbán. One of them, among others. concerned the euro and European economic integration. Orbán answered and referred to Hungary's failure to join the monetary union, saying: we can understand the decision to join later, but we can also decide that we will not enter it at all. He meant that, in his opinion, those who are in the euro area must constantly adapt to each other, adapt to each other, and the changes and processes that are taking place lead to more and more integration. It is well known that in this integration, these 2 different speeds will be understood and will be stronger to decide for the weaker ones. In addition, we can join, we do not need to join; we can participate, we can remain on the sidelines. And that's also a value. He was then asked about the new Hungarian constitution We know how much noise has caused in the European Union, and we know what a reference to God has been written in the preamble. Orbán stated that Hungary was such a country that he would not dare to say that most of the citizens in the world view wanted the Christian constitution in advance. Nevertheless, in the democratically formed environment it was possible to obtain a majority to establish such a constitution, a majority convinced that it was necessary to base the constitution on Christian values. Consultations were needed, surveys that advocated values that were finally recognised and included in the Constitution. I recall the Polish discussion before 1997 about the introduction of God's name to the constitution. I will comment on this time with reference to our proverb, which sounds like this: without God or the threshold. Well, unfortunately, in a country where then about 90% The citizens declared themselves baptized, we rejected God's blessing. [[Mr. Senator, 11 minutes...]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] So, on the contrary, we did not need this blessing to the Hungarians who went on the path of Christian values. 2 years ago, we started going on the Hungarian road in Poland and, so far, God blesses us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u330	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Brothers and Sisters in the Senate! Let us note that nothing motivates us to discuss as much as resolutions about history, or in which history manifests itself and rewinds. Yesterday, four hours we discussed, seemed, a necessary and simple resolution about Poles saving Jews. I listened to this discussion and at first I thought it wouldn't be long, because it's obvious that such a day should have been established by Parliament long ago. But as I've heard all the time: moneymakers, accomplices, navy police... In fact, one more resolution would have been needed since the day of the disgrace. It would probably meet the expectations of a part of the Polish society, and it would certainly meet expectations abroad. We would be the only country in the world that created a resolution that makes such an exposition and tells us what a bad nation it is that has done so much wrong. It would have started in 1939. I'm talking here to historians who read materials, e.g. French, in which Poles were accused of provoking war... These are facts. And you could tell a story for so long. Today we are discussing a resolution in which we thank Hungary for their resolution. Without doubt, this is a very political discussion, although on the 100th anniversary of the Spring of the Peoples. I would like to draw attention to some of the themes that have come here and been discussed and on the one hand and on the other. I'm talking about sticking with the strong. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that for the last time Poland has been trying very substantially to change foreign policy: we are moving away from the old concept, where Europe, under the auspices of the European Union, but with a large share of Germany, is conducting its own strong economic policy, and we are starting to look for other allies. The Hungarians are accused of what the Prime Minister of the Government is saying and what he is doing. But I guess that's what real politics is. Do you not see the difference between the Hungarians voting on Mr Tusk's candidacy, but it does not matter to them at all And that's how they voted. But this resolution, which was written a few days ago, is the essence of their policy, because they see that they need to look for allies in connection with what the Hungarian Government is planning and how it works? So I think we could learn from the Hungarians how to conduct such a real policy and look for benefits where our right state can be fulfilled and where it can serve the interests of the state and the nation. Senator Zdrojewska in her nice speech said: who is disturbed by the idea of an open society? But we would also have to add: who in Europe was disturbed by the idea of Christianity? Well, unfortunately... Do you think that the European Union, as an institution, is going in the right direction? After all, the accusations that the Government of Law and Justice wants to bring Poland out of the European Union from various places are absurd. We would all like this institution to be able to repair itself, reform it to return to its roots, so it returned to those ideas which were based on cooperation, on the free market, on the movement of capital, on the movement of people, but also on what was at the beginning, i.e. the idea of national countries, on national tradition. However, the European Union is now becoming an administrative and bureaucratic conglomerate. An official caste was created, no matter what happened. It will always defend this institution, it will not support smart ideas, it will not go towards self-repair. And that's sad. That is why we are looking at Hungary today as one of the few countries that dare to criticize the European institutions. In view of this resolution, it would be good for us to take this assumption: the European Union will continue and be a unity as long as all the countries in it are on equal terms. And today Poland wants to pursue this policy. So, please do not accuse the Hungarians of hypocriticalness that they are doing otherwise, and that is not what they are saying, because they are the ones who are pursuing a real policy that serves the Hungarian people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u332	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, March 15th, Hungarians have their national holiday. And since they're having a holiday, I think everyone Despite differences in views, we want to make the Hungarian people's most heartfelt wishes, wishes for successful development and success. Today in many cities of Poland under souvenir plates, the monuments are made of flowers. A memorial wreath was also placed in Legnica on my behalf today. What words do you choose to wish for the Hungarian people? I don't think there are any more beautiful than the ones they're singing today in their own national anthem. These are the words in Polish: God save the Hungarians and grant them His graces. Help us with the right cause against which your enemies are fighting. The fate that has been pushing Hungarians for so long, bring them happiness. Silence their sorrows that oppress them, and forgive their past and future sins. God bless the Hungarians. Greetings to the Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u334	I join your wishes, we all join your senator's wishes. Please take the floor of the senator... [[...Sluggish.]] And the name? [[Waldemar.]] ...Waldemar Sługocki. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to refer to this controversial resolution, but first of all, I join my wishes. Like all my friends and all my friends at the club. Which was polite to formulate Senator Czudowska. This is an important moment in the history of the Hungarian state, as well as our common relations. But it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to many of the information that has fallen out of the mouth of my esteemed colleagues in Law and Justice. There is also no way to understand many of your statements. The first point I do not fully understand is the change of the state of rhetoric and attitude towards the Polish presence in the European Union. Unless we agree that Poland's integration into the European Union and our membership of the North Atlantic Pact are those issues which did not differ, they did not share significant political environments in Poland at the time. These were priorities which not only connected political environments, but also gave hope for a better tomorrow for all Poles and Poles. The Polish people clearly agreed that these are priorities that will ensure the realization of the vital interests of the Polish state. This agreement also applied to us when we joined NATO on 12 March 1999 and on 1 May 2004, when we reached accession. But this accession was also preceded by an association of Poland with the European Union in 1994. In 1997, we opened accession negotiations. We agreed to the Copenhagen criteria, which were extremely important in terms of building a European community, which de facto set the values of an integrated Europe. No serious political body or politicians in Poland questioned these values at the time. I do not recall, Dear Lord, that anyone should question these values at that time. I also remember the very debate about our accession to the European Union, and I remember these disputes and attitudes, not only of different political backgrounds, but also of social and professional groups. And I remember perfectly the skepticism that Polish farmers expressed. Remember, please, that at the time this group of Polish society was the most skeptical, with the greatest concern she spoke about the process of European integration. Not much, this process was robbed of a whole bunch of lies, half-truths, stereotypes. But per balance 7 and 8 June 2003 77.54% Poles said yes to the process of European integration. It was the Poles who made the decision. But I will remind you that debates about opportunities, threats and benefits of Poland's integration with the European Union took place almost every day and were free from cheap propaganda. Polish politicians, Polish intellectuals could afford a very serious, substantive debate. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, because if you compare that time, that political discourse, the arguments that were then used and those that we are using today, then you can see that these are two incomparable worlds. At that time, in my opinion, the political class took responsibility for the Polish state and did not give in to the mood of minorities. Today, the Polish political class wants to please minorities, including the extreme ones. We are the elite of the Polish state. It is we who are to carry out Poland during this most difficult time. The Poles will settle us. I wonder how these question marks we're multiplying today... what answers we're going to get in a few or a dozen years. I am curious to see where Poland will be after such debates as today, and after such, not other decisions of us parliamentarians. I think history is inexcusable. I'm sorry you're not here, Senator Zarin. Because his words will also be evaluated in retrospect. I do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, to flatten European integration, only to the caste of officials. This is some extreme abuse. The European Union's administrative apparatus serves to implement the whole complex structure of European integration. I do not agree, ma'am, with the statement that Poland has lost its honour by joining the European Union on 1 May 2004. And, little less, Poland has not lost its honour. also when you're asleep. Lech Kaczyński signed the Treaty of Lisbon on 13 February 2007. Then Poland did not lose its honour. [[Who said that? That's not what you said here.]] Mr Kaczyński was kind at the time, after signing this treaty, such words that they were difficult negotiations, but Poland reached its goals practically in a maximum way. He commended the then Prime Minister of the Polish Government and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I will remind you for order, Minister Fatiga... [[A photo.]] Photoga, I'm sorry. I wish we could remember. It was also your political environment that thought this process was a huge historical success of Poland, Polish foreign policy and Polish diplomacy. But then, as I remember, ladies and gentlemen, from 1990 to today, we have not dealt with hypocrisy among politicians. We didn't have a dichotomy policy, the one on the outside, and the one on the inside. Polish policy was coherent. The message inside was consistent with the message outside. Today, you tell Poles inside, for example about Polish-German relations, and that is not what the Minister of Foreign Affairs says when he goes to Germany and talks to the German Chancellor. We have to decide whether we are the elite and take responsibility for the words or balance, like a British politician. And we know what it's done for Britain. So I would like to ask you to reflect. I ask you to take seriously how we shape the future of the Polish state. It is not about here and now, but it is about shaping Poland's position in the international arena for many, many years. The consequences of decisions that will be made today will be many, many years. Please keep that in mind. This is not about a very emotional, shallow dispute between the rulers and the opposition. Senator Bobka's statement, I'd like to recall. It was very responsible, Senator, as you said, that we should seek consensus, that this resolution should be adopted in this way. It is a fact, in such situations we should try to communicate in the interests of the Polish state. Poland's right state requires wisdom, reason and reasonableness. She is missing, also in this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about Poland and the Polish future, about our international relations, we really should not think about what the Poles will say, what the various social groups will say, whether our electorate will be bigger or smaller. We are to deliver Poles and lead them so that they feel safe in Poland in the world. This is what Poles should demand of us. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, a few macroeconomic issues. In 1999, GDP per capita in Poland was 39% of the EU average, today it is 72%. Civilization progress, the civilization leap that Poland has achieved, is possible thanks to Poland's accession to the European Union. And let me remind you, only in the framework of cohesion policy in the years 2004 and 2006, EUR 12.8 billion, 2007 and 2013 EUR 67.3 billion, in 2014 and 2020 EUR 82.5 billion. But please note, it's not just transfers of funds, it's also a way of thinking about development, it's also preparing development plans, it's also generating own contribution, it's also making efforts to promote development. These are extremely important changes that were possible thanks to Poland's accession to the European Union. And one last thing, with Mr. Orbán. Please pay attention, gentlemen very much, to the states of law and justice please, Prime Minister Orbán is an extremely interesting politician, smart, I would say, because he is already saying today that he is ready to accept immigrants, he is ready to talk about these issues, he is ready to talk about many issues. Please note that his attitude towards the European institutions is increasingly open. The reason is simple: we are starting negotiations on the new budget of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland was the largest recipient of funding under cohesion policy. I'm afraid I'd be wrong, that's for myself and for all of us Poles, I wish In order not to be so that with the hands of Orbán Poles it will lead to such a situation that the transfer of funds under cohesion policy in Hungary will be greater than to Poland. This is going to be a very dangerous situation, but I wouldn't rule out this option at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for less emotion, more common sense and a real one, to actually invoke the Polish cause of the state. And one more topic about subjectivity. I have to... [[Mr. Senator, unfortunately...]] I'm finishing up, last sentence. I'm sorry. [[I'm afraid you have to go now.]] À by way of a proposal Polish subjectivity. The European Union is a set of sovereign entities, which are national states. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, we should start by wishing for the Hungarian people. So, dear Hungarian Brothers, best wishes: Kedves magyar barátok, legjobb kívánság. Then check it out in the dictionary, it was the same thing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, here we are discussing the nation, and this is about the government, and this is about the leaders. When it comes to nations, nations have nothing to criticize. The nations are usually neither good nor bad, sometimes they have a difficult history, sometimes they have easier and their criticism is completely pointless. However, the situation is quite different when we talk about governments. Governments, as we know, behave differently and even if they're democratically elected, it doesn't mean that everything they do is right. This resolution, really modest, can be said, not particularly challenging, is actually one thing, namely that Poland... that is, those voting for it, maybe not Poland, but those voting for it believe that the procedures which the European Union has initiated against the actions of our government and the government majority in the field of the rule of law are unjustified. Since the European Union also has a number of different reservations to the Hungarian Government, there is a specific union of these two countries, because if there are reservations here and there, then let us stick together. Of course, the key question is whether these are reservations right or wrong, and this is what we need to talk about. But of course we have already discussed this subject many times. We talked about this in connection with the Constitutional Tribunal, then in connection with the successive laws concerning the prosecution's office, and then the courts, which continues to this day. And, of course, for every argument of opposition is the argument of the majority, which says not, we here have such opinions, or we think that this is in line with the constitution, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if 120 of the most outstanding professors in the Venice Commission say that we are violating European values, we are also violating our constitution if the Council of Europe says the same, if the European Parliament says the same, if that is what the most outstanding Polish professors of law say, then at least it is worth considering. But it is certainly not surprising that the European Union is taking action in this area. Now it's a question of whether she can take the action at all. I think that discussion was yesterday. Then I will repeat it and ask you, I will ask Marshal Sewerinski, I will also ask Senator Bobka: as it seems to you, if we want to join the European Union today, with this state of the law, with everything we've done. I'm saying "my" but of course I mean most of it. With the Constitutional Tribunal, with the courts... With all of this. How do you think we'd be accepted? [[Of course not.]] Of course it's not, of course not. So, at least... Well, defend yourselves, of course, argue and so on. But to write in the resolution that we absolutely disagree that it is not justified at all, etc., etc. Well, that's just not true, because it has its reasons. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as Hungary is concerned, Well, it's not a good time or place, because it's a Hungarian holiday to develop some criticism of Hungarians. But I've already said There is no criticism of the nation; when it comes to the nation, we are all, as we sit here, great friends of Hungary. But as for the government and what Orbán is doing, as Senator Ryszka said here, that we should follow Orbán's example, this is a completely different matter. Senator Pęk, answering the question of whether this resolution will help us in the Visegrad Group, said: yes, it will strengthen, strengthen, strongly strengthen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read you a piece of the interview you gave to Prime Minister Morawiecki in Germany when he said his famous opinion about the perpetrators of the Holocaust, which caused a terrible storm. And because he said it, that interview somehow went missing, hardly anyone noticed what he said, but there are those who read it, so I'll read it. He was asked about this conflict with the European Union and said: "We are in Poland very far from a serious violation of the rule of law. When I compare the situation in Poland, which has a very low level of corruption and flourishing democracy, with the situation with our friends from Bulgaria, Romania or the Czech Republic Where there's corruption everywhere Or to Hungary, I don't know whether to laugh or cry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I've said this in public before, that Prime Minister Morawiecki is best placed to be silent. Whenever he's out there, he'll say something, it's a problem. With the perpetrators of the problem, Poland was not in 1968, now this... This strengthens the Visegrad Group? But let's move on. Mrs Kopcińska has been asked about these words by the Prime Minister, as he will explain whether it is good or bad... Well, she escaped her opinion, of course, but for reasons of justification, she told me what the ranking of corruption looks like. Transparency International, where is Poland, where are these other mentioned countries. And so, Poland is on the 36th place, Czech Republic on the 42., Slovakia on the 54th, Romania on the 59th and Hungary on the 66. And what I'm trying to say is that this is a worse place than what Hungary had some years ago. So here's the question... Because Senator Ryszka, by the way, my favorite senator, I'd like to say... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...he spoke a lot about Christianity here and that Orbán emphasizes Christianity so much, and that this is the way... Well, maybe in such a purely moral sense... I won't argue, but if he's Prime Minister, I understand that these Christian values should be implemented. I ask: Is it Christian values to tolerate corruption? Well, I don't think so. Definitely. Unfortunately, this is happening in Hungary. Is it Christian value to tolerate the oligarchy of the country? Read all kinds of studies on this subject. This is the country of the oligarchs centered around the ruling group. What I'm trying to say is, fortunately, it's not in Poland. There are no oligarchs. Of course there is political nepotism, but this is a completely different matter. In the fight against corruption, we are much better. In Hungary, the National Bank of Poland... sorry, the central Hungarian bank has created several secret funds that he did not want to inform anyone about, why they are and who they are financing. After long battles finally found out, and it turns out they finance their relatives and friends of the rabbit. So, ladies and gentlemen, in a country that has yet to be introduced... There is no more practically independent, free media, there is almost no more, they have all been taken over or are a government tube, just like our TVP and here we are similar, actually or in the hands of those oligarchs who are allies with the ruling team. And finally, there are laws that allow journalists to be punished for criticizing the government. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how do we get all this together... There you go, this is the choice of Hungary, this is the way Hungary works, but don't be surprised that the European Union raises reservations because that is not the idea of the European Union. And don't be surprised that we I am now talking about those who critically refer to this resolution We see no need to ask Hungary for help in a case in which we ourselves have a lot behind our ears. This is not the country that should be our main ally. I'm finally gonna get back to this case... Because Senator Klich used the words strong and weak. It can be interpreted differently, actually. Well, Senator Seweryński used it neatly, referring to Beck, but we know what's going on. We must be clear: we must pursue our interests. Our interests are being pursued in alliances, and alliances must be made with those who can really help us achieve these interests. Well, in what interests will Hungarians themselves help us? On the one hand, Hungarians who have a problem with the Union and on the other hand we who have a problem with the Union. This is ridiculous. And I would also like to say that the series of speeches that have taken place recently, including the statements of the President, statements on EU issues... some were quoted here, mostly this comparison with partitions. I know what the president meant... [[Mr. Senator, you need to finish now.]] I'm almost done, yeah. I know what the president meant. The president wanted to stress that we should not go to the United States of Europe, because it makes us incompetent. And here's a bad example. Just as we were incarcerated during the partitions. Well, you can't compare the European Union with the partitions. You have to choose examples that make sense, because it goes into the world, it goes into Poland, it's just so understood. Well, in another place, Mr. President said that somewhere far away, in remote capitals, he's deciding our cases, that that's where the money goes that we're working, and that we're actually working for other people. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we get, we get from the Union five times more than we pay. How do you say things like that? [[Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz: Mr Senator, thank you very much.]] And at the same time, we are adopting an agricultural resolution today. Here you sit, Senator, your head down... [[I didn't flush, I keep it straight.]] Oh, now you're just picking it up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And, of course, we demand money. Right? Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Finishing... [[Mr. Senator, you're already out of time.]] That's a short sentence. [[You've got five more minutes.]] So I can't vote for this resolution. Referring again to Senator Ryszka's statement, let me say this: God help the Hungarian people, but in no case let us follow the way of Orbán. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u338	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] Senator Bobko will see you in corrigendum mode. Senator Borowski praised you too much, I understand. [[Voice from the room: Not good.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u339	I formally take the floor in the correction mode, but actually I would like to answer. Mr. Marshal, I do not see any reason why today Poland would not be admitted to the Union if there was such a situation that... [[Not under these conditions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u340	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen! Senator Jan Rulewski speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u341	High Izbo! I apologize in advance for perhaps being too harsh or too vague, but this debate was not brought about by me. The author of this resolution is Senator Pęk, otherwise having the same views as his father, and already this is the reason for taking the floor next to many other senators. Why is the tone of my speech different from that of Senator Borowski, Senator Bobko or even Senator Ryszka? I have already said in this House that, for me, the entry into this common house, or actually the struggle to enter this common house, is a millennia contract. I wish everyone could top that contract. And that is why, with extreme seriousness and crassness, I can say that I will defend this contract and I will be against this proposed resolution. As I read it, I see that she has nothing of what Senator Czudowska asked for here in connection with the holiday, and perhaps also in connection with common problems that arise between Poland and Hungary. Since Germany can continue to consult France, they can continue to consult France directly, including parliamentary consultations, which is an obstacle to us not taking such joint initiatives, because... And here's the question. not whether or not these resolutions should be prepared, but for what purpose these resolutions arise. And I answer directly, perhaps excessively: I treat these 2 resolutions as an attempt to establish a Confederacy. Confederations were created in Poland, but also in Hungary. The partition of Poland did not begin with the desire of the conquerors, but it began with the creation of the Confederacy. Confederations so unusual that Czarniecki, our hero, about whom we sing in an anthem to this day, was acting against Sobieski. And that's the invitation to create a Confederacy, more confederation in the Confederacy. There is no obstacle in the legislation and political practice of the Union of Poland with Hungary, and not only with Hungary, to raise the importance and importance of the Visegrad confederation in which they were, and there are also assumptions as to how to reach this Europe which invited us. Why the confederation? That's where he's accused. The Hungarians accuse us of it, and we accept it. That they don't want such a Europe... They say: we do not want, we do not want any more Europe in which, as you claim, there is no law, justice and freedom. I get the feeling... I am talking about Poland now because I do not know the Hungarian situation well... Although confederation with the Austrians was established, it was the axis of occupation of many nations, especially the Balkan nations. It's worth remembering in history, too. And Hungarians stood at the gate and watched, among others. Warsaw ghetto and disarmed Warsaw insurgents. That's why I'm very careful to... which is why I'm asking you why these resolutions are being made. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Professor Seweryński has said a lot, he has alleged that the objectives, that apart from honor... are threatened by sovereignty, that the constitution clearly decides... He also accused Mr Klich of directing his political azimuths towards the strong. I do not know how Professor Seweryński voted on the exposition of the government and the policy of this government, when Mrs Szydło's first step in the government was the azimuth towards the strong, towards the UK. I remind you that no one was talking about Hungary at the time, but it was said to be a Federation of Great Britain. I would remind you that this speech was about a strategic partner. Only the strong Britain is gone today. And what is this confederation for? It was said by Jarosław Kaczyński before he gained power as a result of genuinely democratic elections, notabene carried out under the eye of the European Union, controlled by the European Union. Well, he said it was necessary to organize Budapest in Warsaw. And there wouldn't be anything wrong with that, like in those two resolutions, if it weren't for the fact that he was in the election campaign under the slogan of revision. And you've been denying this country for many years. That is, the Confederacy for the revision of the treaties, the same treaties to which his brother wrote us. Such inaccuracies are also due to this resolution, because it is said that there is no - That's what the Hungarians say. Laws, justice and freedom. But what do you mean there's no right? And on what basis is Europe of law built? What do Eurosceptics accuse Europe of? The fact that there's too much right that the instructions have 800 pages, 300 pages that regulates the bending of bananas, storage of things, and even the issue of flies in the barn. So there's the law. Maybe it's wrong, maybe it's wrong, maybe it's too big, but it's the law. It's said there's no justice. And how does the budget of the European Union share? What are the rules? Isn't that fair? After all, everyone in this budget has national envelopes and everyone is making it. What does everyone mean? This actually relates to the question of whether there is freedom in the European Union. Well, at least I, as I travel around Europe, feel that freedom directly. I don't even have a European passport because I am a Polish citizen and a European citizen. So freedom is! Freedom is media, and freedom is of course also economic, cultural. And I disbelieve in hearing about the problem of Christian values, since almost every third church in Poland has an inscription: it was built or renovated thanks to the funds of the European Union. So all these values are, just maybe you need to strengthen them and develop them, maybe you need to make them more human. Let me put it this way: I liked two votes in these previous speeches. The first was when Senator Radziwiłł said unexpectedly: we, the citizens of the Union, express our reservations. Well, that means we already feel like citizens of the Union. More importantly, it was even more important when Minister Szymański recently said this: Europe Not the European Union, because the Union is less than Europe It will not solve its problems if it does not achieve European unity. And the second thing he said: none of the countries, including Poland, will solve their various problems if there is no unity in the European Union. And you're questioning it today! You join a confederation that is a confederation of denial of values. Not to build them, to strengthen them, but to deny them. This is the confederation of the blind bench. This is the confederation of fear. This is the confederation of intellectual paralysis. This is a confederation to return to Europe before 1939. This is the weakening of Poland's sovereignty, not the strengthening of Poland's sovereignty. And to be honest, I'm afraid of it. . regardless of the various cases And instead of today's euro, which some of us or in Europe are still using, I don't want to see the field marshal Deutsche Mark march through Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u342	Thank you, Senator. I have to straighten out one thing you said right away. Well, Hungary was in a coalition with the Nazi Germans, in a political and military coalition, but Hungarians did not guard the ghetto, did not fight the Warsaw Uprising and... [[They were disarming the insurgents.]] [[I didn't say they fought back. I said they disarmed.]] They disarmed... No, it's not. [[Disarmed.]] Yes, Mr. Senator, but they didn't disarm. They were standing in the vicinity of Kampinos, but were withdrawn due to cooperation with Polish troops. So that you can accept that I know a little bit about it. That's what I'm saying right now, so it doesn't become part of the polemics. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me be brief: first, I would like to thank my Hungarian friends for the great help you have given us. I also thanked the Hungarian Parliament during the martial law, in this most difficult and difficult period. Here I address people, Hungarians, my friends. I was talking about it in Parliament. Now I'd like to say one word, Senator: rule of law. Well, with the rule of law that is currently in force in Poland, we would not get into the European Union. Please, Minister, see how Serbia is trying to get in and how it is checked when it comes to legal status. And the legal status of Poland was checked before the entry into the European Union. I would remind you that I was very close to a serious policy at the time. Finally, I would like to say that Polish foreign policy does not exist at all. She was handed over to people who were completely unprepared for it. And I say this with pain and care, because they are people who may have some good intentions, but they have no idea what European politics really is. Mr. Orbán, who's playing games, gets it. Although maybe I shouldn't use that word with our most important nobles and who works for my own interests. And since I have said this in the presence of the President of the Hungarian National Assembly, I will now repeat this too. And I will ask that the marshal be gracious to accept this as an amendment. After the fourth paragraph, which reads: "The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude to the Hungarian Assembly... and so on. I don't want to finish, because the waste of time is going to be an amendment... If it were to pass, then I would consider whether I would vote for it, but I would rather. The Senate of the Republic of Poland thanks Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for supporting Donald Tusk's candidacy during the vote for President of the European Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u344	Thank you, Senator. But sign the amendment. [[Oh, yeah. Then I'll get over it from the other side.]] [[Voice from the room: Please.]] Good. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to join the wishes of the Hungarian people on the feast day, and I would like to address these words to the whole Hungarian people, also to the opposition, which has a rather difficult time under the rule of Viktor Orbán's party, to the whole Hungarian people, also to those who had the misfortune to lose the elections in Hungary. Referring to the statements of Senator Ryszka... Mr Senator, none of us in this discussion questioned for a moment what Mr Senator said about values, about us dragging the European Union this way. [[I didn't argue.]] There's nothing between us... But you sacrificed a whole very long speech to the senator, as if it were in polemicism. But I accept that it was simply a statement on the margins of our discussion... [[The fascination with Orbán was.]] And by the way, because she had nothing to do with that resolution. Well... [[Let's see what you say...]] Yes, sir. That's the resolution. And that's why we're against this resolution, or at least that's why I'm here. Once again, as I said today at the committee's meeting, it fits in with the European Union. I'm not going to talk about Senator Jackowski's thesis, which clearly had a much weaker day today, that the opposition behaves lousy... [[That's right, that's right.]] Senator Jackowski has reached about the level of rhetoric of the Member State senator in our previous Senate meeting today in this discussion. These were pretty low-flight arguments. I was curious... Because in many statements of the Senators of Law and Justice there was an element of this misfortune of losing sovereignty. I was very surprised to hear those words in Senator Radziwiel's mouth. Well, we all sit here, and I think that especially the right side, we glorify the I Republic, the strength of the Republic of both Nations, the supranational state in its form. But when Piłsudski, Marshal Piłsudski, fought as soon as he regained his independence to recreate what was so wonderfully recorded in our history, who turned this project upside down? Well, the most passionate patriots, loving their national homelands in an exclusive way... [[Nationalists.]] ...nationals, Ukrainian, Polish and Lithuanian nationalists, who people from families such as Senator Radziwiłł Did I... and 400 or 500 years ago, we were absolute Lithuanians, Louis Potej was the captain of the great Lithuanian. Well, from the point of view of the Lithuanian people, that's treason. Where does this phobia come from? Two days ago, I read a very interesting article by one of the French journalists, political scientists, who made a thesis by examining French-German relations. The French problem is that they have no idea about Germany. On the one hand, they want these Germans strong and they keep pushing the Germans to finally spend more than 2% on arms, so they have a strong army, and on the other hand they fear and do everything they can to weaken them inside Europe. We have this complex and this problem is squared or cubed. Listening to a lot of speeches here, I see this, in my opinion, irrational fear that tells us to dismantle a project in which for 30 years... Excuse me, of course, less, I've extended this time frame. So it's a project in which by... [[14 years.]] [[...14.]] ...14 years we've lived, developed, and used common security. And also responding to some of the allegations that have been made here, that we are being squeezed by this Europe... Well, ladies and gentlemen... And I'll be right back. The last few sentences about this resolution. This is a resolution of 2 entities in the same situation, giving themselves an alibi. Our entry into the European Union could be compared to marriage. Thanks to a simple yes, without signing any contracts, we enter into a very complicated legal arrangement. That's what we said. And on the one hand, for many years, one of the spouses, let's just say that the spouse, he's delighted that the lady in the dowry renovated his house, helped buy a car and cooks, and washes. [[Not at all.]] But like at some point this spouse And that's what this resolution is about, and that's what I really wanted to say. He says, "No, but you're not going to walk around at night, you're not going to play cards, you're not going to hit kids, it's suddenly a complete retreat from what one part of the relationship is... Of course. But about the other, there is absolutely no reflection that this is the reason why a spouse, the European Union, is wondering what is happening in this family. Thank you very much. [[Oh, Jesus!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u346	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of this resolution, which, in my opinion, deserves the approval and applause of everything, because every expression of solidarity with our nation, with our government, which is in the situation in which it is, deserves attention and recognition... I am therefore surprised at those who believe that this is an inappropriate resolution, especially since we are adopting this resolution today, on the day of the national feast of Hungary. I'm taking the floor for two reasons. First of all, this one. Maybe it'll sound a little humorous. That I have some Hungarian blood flowing through my great-grandmother, and secondly, for that reason... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Egészégedre.]] ...that you have also touched on a very important issue... [[Mr. Senator!]] ... concerning the European Union and the place of Poland in the Union. Some even accuse the current government of wanting to get us out of the Union. I believe that these are completely unlawful claims, because it is necessary to distinguish the criticism of the current policy of the Union, especially in terms of the system of values and prominence on the side of those who deny traditional Christian value systems, drawing on just over a thousand years of culture, including Catholic culture in Poland, from the principle of attachment to the European Union and the acceptance of Poland's membership of the European Union. This has also been expressed in the referendum, and this is perhaps the most important guideline for us in terms of our attitude towards the European Union. At the same time, let us not forget that, as full members of the European Union, we have the power to influence the shape of this European Union, also the perception and values that it should guide and the policies it should pursue. And now we're facing an assessment of this. I share this assessment made by Hungary - whether the European Union had a basis under Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union... Do not be confused with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, because not all of this is getting to the point that there are at the moment 2 legal acts that concern the European Union, plus a third, i.e. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is worth recalling. Well, ladies and gentlemen, art. 7, which refers to Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, provides that in the event of reasonable doubt as to the achievement of the values referred to in Article. 2 and these values are: dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights, the Union may initiate the specific procedure provided for in that Article. 7. But we forget one thing. "Those who have begun this course also forget it." In addition to these 2 articles, there is an even more important legal act related to the position of Poland in the European Union, namely Protocol No 7, called the British Protocol. This protocol was signed by President Kaczyński and signed by the United Kingdom. What does this protocol say? This Protocol is a Protocol to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union listing the same rights I have spoken of and which are mentioned in Article. 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Treaty on European Union. Poland and the United Kingdom reserve, when signing the Treaty of Lisbon, that the Charter must not give the Court of Justice of the European Union any other tribunals or courts the opportunity to state that the provisions of the Charter are not implemented or violated by Poland. And here, ladies and gentlemen, is the right time to pay tribute to Professor Lech Kaczyński, who foresaw that Poland might be in such a situation as he is currently in, when, as a result of the failure of some countries to share a certain system of values, Poland may at the same time take part in proceedings before some tribunals or other bodies of the European Union. This is a very interesting legal problem: how does this British protocol, which I am talking about, Protocol No 7, apply to this procedure which has now been initiated against Poland? Well, I think that the correct interpretation leads to one conclusion: the protocol has the meaning of lex specialis, which is kind of a detailed regulation, in relation to lex generalis, which is in the article. 2 and Article 2 7th Treaty of Lisbon. Therefore, according to the principle of lex specialis derogat legis generalis, this protocol takes precedence. Since it has priority, it means that these bodies, including the tribunals, are nothing to do with these regulations, which are the internal regulations of the Polish state. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that Poland can regulate certain issues completely in any way and that we are outside any international control. But I would like to remind you that this control existed a long time before the European Union was founded, after the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon and the transformation of the European Communities into the European Union. There are other systems, by the way, which I think are more legally perfect and more civilised. Namely, there is a system of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Council of Europe. And if someone thinks that his rights are violated, he or she may have an individual complaint under this system or another country, a third country in relation to, for example. to Poland the statement that some rights which are guaranteed in the European Convention on Human Rights have been violated and which are only repeated in the Treaty of Lisbon. I therefore really believe that the Hungarian position, which is an expression of support for us, is correct. And from the point of view of pure legal exegesis, which I have presented to you here so hot, ad hoc, I will admit, because I did not know that this particular topic would be called and discussed today, there is no basis for the European Union to conduct this procedure. And I trust that the end result of this procedure will be that it will eventually be by analogy to court proceedings... Well, I'm not gonna say that he's given up, but he's just gonna die a natural death, because there's no legal basis for continuing this. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the position of Hungary, which had the courage to express its assessment clearly, deserves this positive resolution that we are making today on the feast of Hungary. Once again, we should wish the Hungarian State the best of its fortunes now and in the future. This traditional Hungarian-Polish brotherly bond is often recalled also in the framework of actions in the European Union. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, what I said does not mean that it is not possible, as I have already mentioned, to assess our legislation from the point of view of certain international standards. But, like I said, it's definitely not that way. Since I am a lawyer for Law and Justice, I will not, of course, suggest to the adversaries what possible other way is possible. If you are so stubborn as to humiliate us in any way, you must look at it yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Bravo, Counselor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u348	Thank you, Senator. There are no more candidates for discussion. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators: Pęk, Borusewicz, Napieralski and Fedorowicz. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Senator Pop, you're welcome. Senator, you called in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u349	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to convene a committee meeting within this time limit... [[We can't hear you.]] ...to vote on this resolution at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u350	Thank you. Senator Pęk has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. [[We agree.]] There's no objection. [[There isn't.]] [[Bravo to Senator Burns.]] Messages, please. Are there any messages? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u351	Messages. The meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the proposal submitted at the 50th Senate meeting for a resolution amending the Senate Rules of Procedure will take place today, immediately after the announcement of the break in room 182. The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on proposals submitted at the 50th Senate meeting for a resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union will be held today 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 182. Meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of applications submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on vehicle managers 743 and 743 A The meeting will take place today, 15 March 2018, 10 minutes after the opening of the session of the Senate in the... This time it's not room 182, it's room 179. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u352	Thank you very much. [[What time is it?]] [[But I'm not the one announcing the recess. You're the marshal.]] 'Cause I'm not gonna announce a break. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. [[And the vote...]] And there will be a vote, of course. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 45 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u353	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering item 16 of the agenda: third reading of the draft anti-food waste bill. The second reading of this project took place at the fiftieth Senate meeting on 8 March 2018. The Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Environment Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy in order to respond to the proposals they had tabled during the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject. It is in print No 263 X. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The committees at the joint meeting on 14 March responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. The Commission supported the following conclusions in the table of proposals: 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 19, 23, 25, 26, 29, 31 The committees request their adoption by the Senate together with a uniform draft law on combating food waste and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 263 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u355	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As soon as possible. This is a choice for the High House between the law that my noble colleagues have prepared a great deal of time and which I call police, because there are orders, penalties, mandatory contracts, and the Samaritan attitude, which is presented by the minority's request, where the basis is voluntaryity, other possibilities, among others. that people in the markets should approach and take food, without all the intermediaries, contracts, penalties and bureaucracy. Thank you very much. I invite you to support the minority's request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u357	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, Senator Antoni Szymański, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Andrzej Kobiak have tabled legislative proposals during the second reading. I don't see any calls. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to take the floor, ask such a question? I don't see any calls. We proceed with the vote on the draft anti-food waste act. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. Senator's printing No 263 X and then on the adoption of the project, print No 263 S, in full as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Note: Amendments 1, 2, 3, 13, 18, 20, 22 and 54 must be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I get the feeling you don't hear what I'm reading. [[We hear, we hear.]] I don't know, you talk and you hear... [[We have divisive attention, Mr. Marshal.]] But you're interrupting. Please don't disturb me. The way of voting had to be determined a little earlier. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 4, 5, 19, 21, 23.42, 44, 45 and 51. These amendments - amendments 1, 2, 3, 13, 18, 20, 22 and 54 - aim to modify the title of the Act and its scope by indicating that it is to be the Food Protection Act. The amendments also aim to introduce opportunities Not, as provided for in the draft law, the obligation for a food vendor to conclude an agreement with a non-governmental organisation concerning the free transfer of food. The purpose of the amendments is also to eliminate the provisions on the obligation to pay a fee for food waste and to provide for sanctions for non-compliance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 2 for, 79 against. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 4 modifies the definition of food waste by indicating that food waste is withdrawn from the distribution stage of foodstuffs which comply with the requirements of food law, including those laid down in Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 5... [[Voice from the room: No. 6.]] Amendment 6 clarifies the definition of food for social purposes by reference to Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and by indicating that these are foodstuffs not intended for sale, in particular because of the defects in the appearance or packaging of those foodstuffs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 7 and 48 will be voted together. Amendment 7 modifies the definition of a food vendor, predicating that it is a self-employed food business operator and on its own behalf in a unit or units of commerce of more than 400 m2 and not, as envisaged by the project, more than 250 m2. Amendment 48 is its consequence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted against, 27 against, 54 against. [[Voting No 7]] Amendments 7 and 48 were rejected. Amendment 8 clarifies the definition of a food vendor by referring to Regulation No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and aligns the terminology of the draft law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 9 indicates that the Act will ultimately apply to a food business operator in at least one trading unit with an area of more than 250 m2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 10, 14, 34 and 40 should be voted together. They point to a clear indication that the non-governmental organization within the meaning of the bill is also a legal person and organizational unit acting on the basis of the laws on the state's relationship to the Catholic Church, on the state's attitude towards other churches and religious associations, and on the guarantees of freedom of conscience and religion. The amendments also align the terminology of the project with the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 12 clarifies the scope of public tasks carried out by non-governmental organisations which will be able to benefit from the Act, indicating that charitable activities are intended in particular to provide food to those in need or to run mass caterers for those in need. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 15 specifies that the agreement concluded between the food seller and the NGO is also to include provisions on the type of food to be transmitted to the NGO. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 16 provides that a contract concluded between a food vendor and a non-governmental organisation should contain provisions concerning the conditions for withdrawal from the contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 27 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 17 clarifies that the agreement concluded between a food vendor and a non-governmental organisation should contain provisions on the use of the food provided to a non-governmental organisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted against, 27 against, 54 against. [[Voting No 14]] Amendments 19 and 25 aim to ensure that the educational and information campaigns carried out by food sellers also concern the rational management of food and are carried out jointly with the non-governmental organisation with which the food seller has concluded an agreement. In addition, the amendments prejudice that no more than 20% can be allocated to campaigns appropriations from the fee and the fee will be reduced by the costs incurred for the campaigns. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 23 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 24 reduces the fee from 10 gr to 5 gr per kilogram of wasted food. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 24 for, 58 against. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 26 clarifies that the fee shall be reduced by the costs of the performance of the contract concluded with the non-governmental organisation incurred by the food vendor, in particular the costs of transport and distribution of food. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 27 clarifies that a food vendor who, for reasons attributable to him, does not pass on food to any non-governmental organisation will be required to pass on the levy in parts of an equal NGO with which he has concluded an agreement. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 56 votes against. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 28 indicates that a food vendor who does not provide food to any non-governmental organisation will be required to transfer the fee in parts equal to the non-governmental organisations with which he has concluded a contract, unless the amount of the fee does not exceed PLN 100. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 27 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 29... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to keep your conversations quiet, ladies and gentlemen, because it's very disturbing. Well, I don't know why you're talking. I'm sorry. Amendment 29 clarifies that the food vendor will be exempt from payment of the fee to the NGO if the organisation has not performed all or part of the contract, in particular where that organisation has refused to receive the food for reasons other than those indicated in the contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 3 for, 76 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 30 indicates optionally the Regional Environmental and Water Management Fund for which a food vendor may pay a fee in the event of a non-contractual agreement with a non-governmental organisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 56 votes against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 31 clarifies that where a food vendor operates in more than 1 voivodship, the fee payable shall be paid to the bank account of the voivodship environmental and water management fund in the voivodship where the seat of the food seller is located. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 75 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 32 clarifies that the fee for food waste shall not be paid if the total fee does not exceed PLN 200 and not EUR 100 as foreseen by the project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 24]] Amendments 33 and 44 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure that the food vendor provides information on the amount of the fee payable or the value of the food transferred to non-governmental organisations in the financial statements and on its website. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 36 clarifies that a non-governmental organisation will be able to allocate up to 20% to cover administrative costs the funds derived from the fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 79 were against, 3 against. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 37 harmonises the terminology of the draft law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 38 seeks to clarify the scope of information submitted to the food vendor by the NGO regarding the use of means of payment. The amendment prejudices that the NGO should in particular inform you of the amount of funds allocated to cover administrative costs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 39 seeks to amend the sanctions for non-compliance with the non-governmental organisation of the agreement on the free transfer of food and provides for a fine ranging from PLN 250 to PLN 5 000, not as the project points out The penalty of PLN 5,000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 41 indicates that it will be possible to waive the penalty in the event that the person who committed the infringement has given due care to ensure that the infringement does not occur. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 53 against. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 42 eliminates from the draft provisions requiring the appropriate application of tax legislation in matters relating to monetary penalties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 76 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 43 annuls those provisions of contracts concluded between a food vendor and a food supplier which provide for the return of unsold food to the supplier. Amendment 52 on these amendments is the consequence of the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 27 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 45 is technical and legislative in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 46 seeks to ensure that the objectives of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management also include the tasks of rational use of food and the prevention of food waste. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were against, 1 was against. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 47 seeks to make children and young people more aware of the principles of nutrition and of combating food waste in the framework of the education system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 49 seeks to extend from 1 to 2 years the transitional period during which a food vendor means a food business operator in a sales unit with a sales area of more than 400 m2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 50 indicates that the Act will be applied during a transitional period in the case of a food business operator in at least 1 400 m2 trading unit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 51 introduces a transitional period for the calculation of the food waste charge. In the first year of application of the new rules, the basis for the calculation of the fee will be 80%. weight of food waste in kilograms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 53 provides that the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, after 18 months of validity of the Act, will present an assessment of its functioning to the Sejm and the Senate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 39]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Antoni Szymański to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 40]] [[Mr. Senator, bravo!]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on combating food waste and has adopted a resolution on bringing this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Antoni Szymanski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the second agenda: the law on bailiffs. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 740 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The report is contained in Senate printing No 740 Z. This is a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commissions met on 15 March 2018 and discussed the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law on judicial bailiffs. The Commission asks for amendments No 4 and No 23 to be adopted. As regards the amendments tabled by Senator Rulewski, Amendment 1, Amendment 2 and Amendment 3, they were not accepted by the joint committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u359	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u360	Whoever votes in favour of limiting the age of the bailiff to 65, discriminates against the elderly. Who will vote in favour of starting proceedings for those who committed an involuntary crime will vote against the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u361	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator, as an applicant, want to speak again or not? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 deletes the provision setting out the Minister of Justice as the body responsible for the implementation of State policy on the tasks entrusted to bailiffs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 53 against. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 2 deletes the mandatory conditions and optional suspension of the bailiff due to the initiation of criminal proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 26 for, 53 against. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 3 deletes the grounds for the bailiff's dismissal due to the age of sixty-five. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 30 for, 51 against. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 4 aims to clarify the concept of financial exclusion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 77 against, 5 against. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 5 with a view to clearly indicating that it is the court which determines the amount of remuneration for the movable property taken over. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 6 is of an order nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 7 is of an order nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 8 harmonises the handling of the sets of questions for the bail-out test. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 9 harmonises the procedure in the event of circumstances excluding a member of the examination panel. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 10 is a consequence of the fact that the dossier is kept in electronic form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] Amendments 11 and 12 harmonise the way in which a breach of a qualified law is found also as a disciplinary offence justifying removal from the service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendments 13, 15, 17 and 20 should be voted on together. They aim to clarify the rules on the disciplinary liability of bailiffs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 14 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Correction... Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Amendment 16.]] Amendment 16 now, right? Good. Amendment 16 aims to clarify the effects of the 10-year limitation period on disciplinary penalties in relation to the possibility of re-entry or re-assignment of an asessor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 18 aims to clearly indicate the other reasons for the appeal of the disciplinary officer and his alternates. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 19 aims to clarify the provision empowering the Minister of Justice to dismiss the deputy Disciplinary Ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 21 is a consequence of the right to file an appeal before the Supreme Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 57]] Amendments 22 and 23 will be voted together. They are intended to adapt the provisions of the Act to its entry into force on 1 January 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 58]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 77 in favour, no one opposed, five Senators abstained. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the bill on bailiffs. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the bill on bailouts. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 741 A. A minority of committees asks for an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 741 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees, in which the committees request the adoption of this law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 61 votes against, 4 against, 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the bill on bail-out costs. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 748 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Hunting Law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 752 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment. The Commissions at its meeting on 15 March 2018 considered the conclusions made during the debate on 14 March 2018 on the Law amending the Hunting Law and certain other laws, and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate would like to accept the proposals set out in points II (1) to (9) and (10). Am I allowed to present a minority motion? Because I'm also a minority rapporteur. [[Voice from the room: I don't think so.]] [[Voice from the room: Why not?]] [[I don't understand. Again...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have completed the report and I am also rapporteur for the minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u363	Yes? That's right, introduce me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u364	As far as the request of minorities is concerned, I ask the High House, it concerns Amendment 7, according to which Article. 1 in point 19, in Article. 42aa the following point 13 is added: intentionally obstructing or preventing collective hunting, excluding forest, agricultural or fishing activities. I would add that the adoption of Amendment 6 excludes the vote on Amendment 7, a minority proposal. I ask the High House to support the minority's request. If we do not support it, it will be possible, as it is written here, to intentionally obstruct or prevent the execution of the hunt Unpunished. And that puts both hunters and those who make it difficult at great risk. This will also hinder the proper management of hunting and the fight against African swine fever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u365	Thank you very much, Senator. [[But who's the minority?]] Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Wiesław Kilian also submitted their conclusions during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 81 senators voted, 4 in favour, 76 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 means that the annual hunting plan will not include data on the wounded and unfound game. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 2 restores the existing regulation on exceptions to the prohibition of scarring, grabbing, holding, wounding and killing game with regard to the training of catching birds, while at the same time making training of hunting dogs... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not tell each other. Everyone... Senator! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's not say... [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] I'll read it because perhaps you haven't heard the end of this amendment yet. So the training of hunting dogs will take place without hurting and killing animals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Vote... [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] 81 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 3 aims to clarify that the bodies of the Polish Łowiecki Union will be able to include a person who has not been convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate crime or tax offence or has not been punished in disciplinary proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 4 makes it impossible for the authorities of the Polish Łowiecki Union to be part of the body of the Polish Łowiecki Union to enter the body of the person who cooperated with the state security authorities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 76 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 5 prohibits hunting involving a minor up to 15 years of age. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, think about it. We're not giving the results yet. We'll wait for everyone to vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Not everyone wants to vote? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 8 for, 67 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 6 repeals the penalty provision with regard to intentional obstruction or non-execution of collective hunting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 69 were in favour, 9 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 8 requires persons who hold a gun permit for hunting purposes to present specific medical and psychological certificates to the competent police authority once every 5 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] 78 senators voted, 74 were in favour, 4 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 9 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 10 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 11 causes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 11 allows the use of lead ammunition for hunting outside swamps, peat bogs and natural and artificial water reservoirs by 31 December 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 72]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 74 were in favour, 2 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Hunting Law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an e-prescription. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 749 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 74 were in favour, four abstentions. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-prescriptions. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 743 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u366	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Rulewski withdrew his amendment and therefore the committee unanimously recommends that you adopt the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u367	Does the senator, Senator Jan Rulewski, want to speak yet? [[He pulled out, but he didn't put up a white flag.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his application in item II in print No 743 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Please proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure, supported by the committee, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 742 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Civil Records, the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing Public Tasks and certain other laws and the Law on Civil Status Acts. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 747 A. A minority of the committee asks for amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 747 A. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee, in which the committee requests the adoption of this law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 54 votes against, 21 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Civil Records, the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing Public Tasks and certain other laws and the Law on Civil Status Acts. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 566 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Stanisław Gogach to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Stanisław Gogach to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law of the cooperative law. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that this third reading only covers the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 465 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Lydia Staroń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 71 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 79]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on cooperative law and has adopted a resolution on the transfer to the Sejm of this project. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Lydia Staroń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Committee, the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and obliged those committees to present an additional report, which is in print no. 736 X, at the present Senate meeting. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint meeting of 15 March 2018 did not support the proposal to reject the project submitted in the course of the discussion and requests the Senate to adopt a draft resolution amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u369	Thank you very much. Does Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz still want to speak? [[Thank you, no.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to the rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of the senators like to take the floor and ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the adoption of the draft resolution from print No 736 S. We proceed to the vote on the motion by Marshal Borusewicz to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 49 against. [[Voting No 80]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Print No 736 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 23 against. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to agenda item fourteen: second reading of the draft resolution on negotiating the rules for implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy after 2020. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 756 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the negotiation of the rules for implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 757 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees supported the proposal set out in point II of the table of proposals and request that it be adopted by the Senate together with the uniform draft resolution contained in print No 757 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u371	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz and Senator Grzegorz Napieralski have tabled legislative proposals during the second reading. Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the provisions of the draft. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the draft resolution We proceed to the vote on the motion by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 25 against, 50 against. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1, Senator Mark's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 13 against. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 2, amendment by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 25 against, 50 against. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 3, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 49 against. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 4, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 50 against. [[Voting No 87]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft resolution presented by the committee in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 24 against. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to... If you'll excuse me for a moment... I'm asking you to stay. Two words. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our last meeting before Christmas... [[The voice from the room: Oh, right!]] ...saints important It will be Easter, the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. The event changed the world. It is the victory of life over death and good over evil. Like every year, we all look forward to Christmas. In Poland they bring spring, they bring joy and also bring our family meetings. It's an opportunity for us to meet our families, our friends. I wish you a pleasant, peaceful, joyful holiday. Happy Hallelujah! And I'll see you after Christmas. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Thank you!]] [[So I understand we're not dating anymore...]] [[There's no more sitting.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I understand we're not seeing each other on this extra...]] It was a gift, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, it was a Christmas present. [[Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the order of the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. I declare that they may last longer... Statements, ladies and gentlemen... I am just going to give you the official message, and I will read that the next Senate meeting will be held on 11th, 12th and 13th April 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. The statements you will be making or submitting to the minutes may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. You're welcome. Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements to make, both signed by me and by Senator Raphael the locksmith. The Museum of the History of Polish Jews - Polin, in connection with the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the events of March 1968, organized an exhibition called "The Aliens at Home," in which souvenirs of ancient times were combined with examples of contemporary anti-Semitism, among which were statements of public people, including politicians, journalists and publicists. The content of these statements, or at least some of them, completely does not correspond to this criterion and only refers to the assessment of the involvement of former officers of the apparatus of repression from the times of the Polish People's Republic, who committed crimes against the Polish people and who were Jewish. These statements were taken out of the context of various debates about the history of Poland, which took place in many forums and other time contexts, and were tended to be interpreted as examples of anti-Semitic statements, although they are not. They were also used to start discussions in an international forum in which Poland and Poles are attributed the so-called. Genetic anti-Semitism, and representatives of the current parliamentary majority supporting the Polish government, the spread of ethnic hate speech. We therefore ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, through the Marshal, whether his representative, who was assigned to represent him in the Museum Council, gave an opinion on the scenario of this exhibition. Has the Minister of Culture and National Heritage intervened through his representative in the Council on these defamatory content? Has the Minister's representative, whose task as part of the Board's activities is to accept the final shape of the main exhibition, had he had the opportunity to familiarize himself with the programme of the temporary exhibition in question? Finally, what steps does the Minister of Culture and National Heritage intend to take on this issue in order to end this defaming debate in Poland? Is the representative of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage at the Museum Council aware of the events taking place there, such as: Dr. Hab's lecture. Michał Bilewicz, during which scientific theories such as those concerning the so-called. secondary anti-Semitism, which is defined as follows: Poles may not even know that they are anti-Semits? It may be felt that the museum of Polin has become a political tool, losing completely the marks of an institution to perform social functions and present an objective message. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the Museum of Polin is a public-private institution, whose uprising was financed by public funds, and was intended to provide mutual understanding of the common history of Poles and Jews and the reconciliation of both nations. The false context in which the above mentioned elements of the exhibition are present certainly does not serve this matter and also bears the mark of the involvement of the institution, which thus becomes one of the parties to the dispute, in the current political discussion. And a second statement. Recently, a debate was held at the Museum of the History of Polish Jews, called "Epidemie Speech of Hate." How close are we to Marc? 68, in which Dr. Hab gave the lecture. Michał Bilewicz, social psychologist from the University of Warsaw. During the lecture lied about the so-called thesis. secondary anti-Semitism, whose sense is supposed to grow today among Poles, illustrated by manipulated and ripped from the context by statements and publications of Polish journalists and politicians of Law and Justice, headed by Jarosław Kaczyński, President of Law and Justice, Andrzej Duda, candidate for President of the Republic of Poland in 2015, Patrick Jakim, Vice Minister of Justice, and Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz, Member of the Polish Parliament. The speech of hatred and prejudice against the Jewish people was also attributed to representatives of public institutions such as the Institute of National Remembrance and the Polish National Foundation, representatives of the Catholic Church and media, including public media, headed by Polish Television. These questionable scientific theories, such as secondary anti-Semitism, are defined as follows: Poles may not even know that they are anti-Semits. According to the audio report published on the website of the museum, Polin, which, to be noted, has recently become a tool of political struggle, it appears that the lying thesis has been supported by weak evidence in the form of misinterpretation of the research carried out, referring to the opinions of publicists and Internet users. The proposals included: those which were intended to prove that supposed anti-Semitism was increasing, among others. as a result of opposition by Polish politicians and society to the forced relocation of immigrants imposed by other countries of the European Union. However, the photographic report shows that Michał Bilewicz's lecture was illustrated by a collection of slides, which were to prove the rise of anti-Semitic and xenophobic feelings in Polish society. In addition, there are quotes taken from the context of the statements of the above mentioned people, controversial drawings with hashtag #polish_holocaust, memes and photographs of Polish politicians and other public people. The conference was attended by foreign guests, including those who make the Polish nation co-responsible for the Holocaust in the international arena, led by the author of illegible, slandering books in Poland, Professor Jan Gross. By the way, it's worth adding that Dr. Hab. Michał Bilewicz on Twitter recently presented an opinion that I quote "Gross" is a Polish patriot and his works are filled with feelings. In February this year, Dr. Hab. Michał Bilewicz was awarded a grant of PLN 2 million awarded by the National Science Centre for research in the framework of the "Spoken disdain" project. Psychological mechanisms for spreading verbal aggression towards minority groups. An example of the above-mentioned public statement by Michał Bilewicz proves a very free interpretation of his research, which bears the characteristics of a separate from the reality and biased publishing activity, rather than a scientific one. Therefore, it seems reasonable to ask the Minister for Science and Higher Education whether the entity he supervises should support such activities from public funds and to which the results of the research will be useful to be interpreted in a similar way. It is therefore to be expected that the Minister for Science and Higher Education through the National Science Centre will precisely account for the use of grant funds for the implementation of this project. We are of the opinion that public support for projects incompatible with the Polish State's right is unfounded. Arthur Warzocha and Rafał the locksmith. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-15-senat-58-2.u373	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 50th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 22 minutes 06]]
