ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations for Members Sylvester Tulayev, Marta Kubiak, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Jarosław Szlachetka. The first part of the session will be Mr Sylvester Tulaev and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Members Sylvester Tulaev and Marta Kubiak. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Polish Swordmierki - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the expressway S-12 - hour 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u3	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the preparation of a draft law on the prevention of scent nuisance. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In many places there are industrial plants in Poland, which cause huge odour and odor nuisance. More and more people neighbouring such sites are demanding decisive action to eliminate such nuisances. A similar situation is taking place in my town, in Jaworzno, where in the Szczakow district there is a tannery plant, the Szczakow Garbarnia, which deals with the processing, processing of animal skins. There, the production process brings out a huge stench, a huge stench that is felt even at a long distance from the plant, especially on hot and warm days. The inhabitants have already come to an end and protest against such neighborhoods and demand decisive action. Therefore, Minister, I think that it is time that, in general, in Poland, there is a time to say, to signal such entrepreneurs that they need to think about changing technologies, so as not to reduce, but to eliminate such nuisances, or they will have to change their place of business to those where it will not disturb the inhabitants. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: At what stage are the works related to the anti-odore law, a law which will limit such odor-distorting burdens? What legal instruments will be enshrined in this law, from which local governments or other environmental institutions will be able to benefit in order to effectively counter this kind of phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u5	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Scent pressure is a serious problem both on a local scale and on a national scale. This is a state of subjective discomfort felt by man, both in the physical and mental sphere, caused by the smell of substances entering the air. Fragrance is the result of the effects of sources that emit odor compounds that are recognized by humans. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2017, almost 1.5 thousand were received by inspection bodies. complaints in relation to smelling nuisance, which is 64% air pollution issues. So this is a powerful scale, and very often it concerns not only a tannery, which, of course, we will look very carefully at, and I will inform you of the results of the inspection, and the High House. About those... Subjectivity is that very often complaints concern not only tanneries, but also places that - you can say - secrete certain odors and this is part of a technological process or a poorly conducted technological process. We are talking about landfills here, we are talking about work on the processes that are subject to waste. But this often applies to places like this... If someone lives in the neighborhood of a coffee shop, after a while this coffee also becomes cumbersome, and even, ladies and gentlemen, the production of sweets can cause discomfort, it also causes complaints. Thus, in order to help businesses in these different areas to properly hermeticise their activities, a codex was prepared to counter odor nuisance. There are described best practices of using biofilters, the use of various tools that entrepreneurs can use. In the first place, we used such encouragement. Of course, we work all the time. If there are opportunities for other legislation, not only environmental legislation, to provide information on whether or not to introduce certain tools to combat odor-deprivedness, then we try to do so. The code that I told you about was already prepared in 2016. It is available on our websites, it has been widely distributed and entrepreneurs use it. Also in the Ministry of the Environment, a list of substances and chemicals has been drawn up, which cause odour nuisance. This is where expertise has been carried out in order to draw up a list of potentially odour-deprived substances, as well as to designate fragrance units and limit values for air concentrations of substances, chemical compounds, in relation to waste treatment, treatment, landfilling, agricultural production, chemical industry. So what can be measured is what we've been trying to measure, and what we've done is we've been trying to integrate it into further legislative work. Of course, with regard to the current national legislation, we have a number of regulations and environmental law, and the Fertilisation and Fertilisation Act, and the Minister's regulations on nitrogen drain from agricultural sources. There are also records in the Construction Law that help to make better quality decisions and prevent nuisance. Of course, it is also about infrastructure ministers, the economy. There are a number of these regulations. In answer to this specific question, what our current work in the environmental ministry looks like, I would like to say that here, in cooperation with the Chief Environmental Inspector, we are working with the General Directorate for Environment on a draft law on the prevention of scent nuisance, which is so difficult that there is no European regulation to which we can appeal directly. We need to adjust it to the conditions. There are sometimes regulations of a land-based nature, and we have included these examples in our analytical work. In the first place, which seems to be the most objective, and also mentioned by the Member, it is a matter of identifying the location of the planned projects, the operation of which may involve the risk of creating scent nuisance, at a safe distance from the buildings. It is considered to create, at the second stage of the work, a legal regulation that will allow an assessment of the odour nuisance of existing facilities. Of course, much depends on how well the local government works, how spatial planning plans are prepared, how public consultation looks like, when such installations are being prepared and planned. And that's also the important role of local governments. And with regard to what is on the inspection side, surely in those places that will be indicated, our inspectors will be present and will carry out an inspection of the state of the installation, of everything that may affect the odour nuisance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u7	Thank you. Additional question. Members Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u8	Dear Marshal! Minister! You have been talking here about those regulations that are already in force, under different rules, but also about a code that should encourage the entrepreneur to take measures that limit these burdensome smells. I just have a question: Does the Ministry really have tools to force these actions here? 'Cause if there's a bill, I understand there's gonna be specific rules. But here we care - for example, I have an example from my district, where there were elements of corruption, threatened entrepreneurs - to settle it so hard.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a short question: Does the Ministry plan to extend the powers for WDOŚ, GIOŚ or e.g. health care, so that on request e.g. The inhabitants of these institutions were able to examine how the owner of the distillery, the dairy plant or the biogas plant produced its products? Because it happens very often like this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the entrepreneur gets permission for a certain quantity and a certain quality of production input...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u10	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u11	...and it actually produces from other materials that it doesn't agree to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u12	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the strengthening of environmental institutions is concerned, we are already in the process of implementing the implementing acts to amend the inspection act. The environmental model for inspections is changing. Inspectors will work in 24-hour mode, they will be able to carry out checks without notice. This is so important that very often it happened that many installations were miraculously organized within 7 days, and it was actually difficult to find evidence of illegal activities, crime. As regards the clear definition of tasks they are already very often described, only sometimes there was a lack of tools in the form of the possibility of entering the installation site, capture the moment at which it happens. Very often these emissions occurred during certain hours, e.g. Friday after 3 p.m. 16 or on weekends or nights, and inspectors could not work during these hours, although in emergency situations, when e.g. The fires, the inspectors were still there. But technically, so that it can be done on a large scale... I will also remind you that the number of environmental inspectors is increasing twice, so we will certainly have tools for smooth operation. I would like to assure all those who conduct business activities in such a way that they optimize their business processes at the expense of the environment, that they are not only watching the environmental inspection, other services are also watching, and that in due time they will feel the smooth hand of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u14	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to ask Mr Richard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The change you made last year in the voivodship environmental and water management funds turned out to be a very important change. The governing party controls 106 positions on the supervisory boards, and it is also about the positions of the presidents and vice-presidents of the fund. As determined by the OKO portal. press, and these are partial data, because in many cases access was denied, the remuneration of board members starts at 18,000. PLN and it is not known at what amounts ends, because the highest amount fixed is PLN 23,200 gross, but it is the basis of remuneration in the Mazovian fund. The board was set up between August and October, so they worked four months, two months. Turns out the board got the annual prizes. [[Applause]] The most appalling case is the case of a fund in Opole, where, as we are told, these prizes amounted to 26,000, respectively. PLN and 24,000. PLN for president and vice president for 2 months of work. [[Scandal.]] Because these are only partial data that are known to the public, we have asked the Minister to be polite to say what it really is. How much is the gross remuneration of the members of the respective voivodship board of funds? In what gross amount were the annual bonuses granted to the members of the regional management board for 2017 and for how many months of office? How many times does the remuneration of the presidents, vice presidents exceed the remuneration of the marshals who, as we know, formally participate in the creation of the management boards of the voivodship funds? We know, of course, that it's a fake, because it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodship local governments have nothing to say anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u16	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka. [[Just the truth, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u17	Someone's finally gonna tell the truth. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The reference to a portal that has, in its name, an eye, which is probably just one, is a bit blind, because the information that is given there... Yeah, speaking of truth, now a little bit of truth. Ladies and gentlemen! The policy of the Government of Law and Justice in the field of environmental protection, in terms of financing environmental protection, is the desire and implementation of synergies between the three institutions which finance investments in environmental protection, i.e. the National Environmental Fund, the Environmental Bank and the Regional Environmental Funds. Without this synergy, there could be no very important program, which consists of 103 billion PLN, thanks to which in Poland we will finally have clean air and Poles will be able to replace their heat sources, they will be able to thermomodernize their buildings. For these institutions to work properly, you don't need the creation of marshals. It is enough that the Marshals stop disturbing and hindering the work of the provincial funds. And when we look at this, too... For this camera to work smoothly, of course, clear changes are needed. These changes took place in voivodship environmental funds, including changes. to reduce costs. Ladies and gentlemen! There were four to five members in many funds. Since the changes have taken place in this area, the number of these members has fallen to two. Even in one of the funds, in the catholic fund, until September there was only one member of the board. In fact, we've reduced stores by one more member of the board, the board has been reduced by one more member, a virtual one, which consisted of prizes that were paid in funds. For example, in the Warsaw Fund for 2017 despite opposition by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, prizes of 252 thousand were paid out. zł. [[The presidents?]] [[Who?]] Members of the board, ladies and gentlemen. The one of your recommendations, I understand. As far as Katowice is concerned, in 2017 it was 330 thousand. zł, number of board members - five. It's worth showing these numbers. At the same time, it is worth to say that neither in Warsaw nor in Katowice were these awards. Of course, you asked that question yesterday. The Minister of the Environment does not carry out such direct monitoring, either by the marshals' salary or by the ministers' salary. We managed to get that information. We will certainly want to talk about all of this information, about all of these amounts, about austerity policy, about the policy of improving the economic efficiency and efficiency of voivodship environmental funds in the near future and we will want to show you what the numbers look like, so that the state and the portal you mentioned have the best data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u18	Thank you. Mr Rajmund Miller asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u19	Minister! Unfortunately, I do not think you have answered the questions you have been asked, and the deadline has been set and you have received them within that time limit. Are you familiar with the practice of changing the remuneration rules by allowing the Jubilee Prize to be collected without the required placement? That's what happened in Opole. Mr. President, who has been here for a few months, has taken a prize of 23,000. zł. Did you know that these savings were made in such a way that the Opole employees were deprived of the statutory reward, of all the fund employees? Such a question: Minister, are you familiar with the open letter of the Opole Environmental Fund's employees, in which the workers clearly say that the new President, who has already been appointed by the States, is pursuing a policy that is definitely a mobbing towards the workers? Please read this letter. If you don't, we'll deliver it to you. You can't do politics that you give to the president because he's his own, and you take the workers for their hard work. This country [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today's policy is unfortunately not only in the environmental fund, but also in many companies of the Treasury, and in this country as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u20	Thank you, sir, your time is up. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to answer all such questions without again indicating the amount paid by the board members in a situation where, in fact, the air protection programme and other programmes were not implemented at all. Not to mention the policy that took place in some voivodship funds: the outgoing boards began to pay significant amounts, leading, among others. in Olsztyn, to a very difficult financial situation. Our policy is a positive policy, thanks to which, as I said, there are possible steps to improve the environment. Very ambitious projects are being carried out, so big and so important that they are noticed by the European Commission and by the World Bank. I think the effect of these actions, e.g. The Clean Air programme will be felt by all Poles. As far as prizes are concerned, any information on this issue will be presented at the conference. Let me remind you that at this point we have a significant reduction in the number of board members to two people or even - as I mentioned - to one person in Katowice. [[It's not like it's the board.]] What I'm saying is that we haven't paid the awards to members like you. These awards today are just zero. Zero in Warsaw, zero in Katowice. [[What about Opole?]] Further details will be presented at a press conference which will fully show how austerity policy works, cost-optimization policy in funds, so that they are an efficient tool to serve all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Minister, please take an interest in Opole.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u22	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On 30 August 2018, national media provided shocking information about Radom's corruption system, in which according to authors are involved, among others. both present and former Members of the Radom District of Law and Justice, as well as Radom local government officials of Law and Justice, managing the city in 2006 and 2014. Several prominent politicians of Radom Law and Justice, which were publicly referred to in the media, claimed that information about the Radom Corruption Agreement was a bunch of nonsense. At the same time, the media informed the public that one of the most important politicians of Radom's Law and Justice, Mr Igor M., who was the second vice president of the city of Radom in 2006 and 2010, then the first vice-president of Radom in 2010-2014, as well as a former member of the political council of Law and Justice, and advisor to the current president of Radom, appointed and supported by the Civic Platform, in connection with the corruption charges put before him by the prosecutor's office, made a request for voluntary punishment, which is, unfortunately, a consequence of which concerns the theories given by the nationwide media concerning the Radom Corruption Agreement. In view of the above, I would also ask you to answer the following questions in writing: Is it true that the former Vice-President of Radom on behalf of Law and Justice, Mr Igor M., who also served as an adviser to the current President of Radom on behalf of the Civic Platform, has the prosecution filed corruption charges? Has he applied for voluntary punishment and admitted to taking bribes in connection with these allegations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u24	I ask that you respond under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Responding to the Member's question on media information about the so-called. I would like to express, first of all, the surprise that the Kukiz Group of Members15 allows you to move the election campaign - in advance I would like to say that the dirty election campaign - within this House, because Mr Robert Mordak, as you know, is a candidate for President of Radom. [[But so what? To the point.]] A real test for the intentions of your actions today, Mr President, will be what you will do after the first round of elections in Radom, which you will support. If you support the Platform candidate, Mr Witkowski, then it will be necessary to draw quite clear conclusions, Mr President. [[Jail.]] High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The Member was also an employee of the City Office in Radom at the time of President Costowniak. You worked at the Urban Urban Studio and then, I understand, you had no doubt about the actions of the City Office in Radom. [[Minister, answer the questions.]] I answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u26	Don't disturb me, sir. Nobody bothered you. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: As far as media information is concerned, what was written by the Gazeta Wyborcza, few of which, using very colloquial terms, stick to the so-called. Poop. As regards the investments that were mentioned in the context of alleged corruption, I now wanted to point out details of most of them. The invitation to tender for the expansion of the weapons factory was carried out during the time of the government of PO-PSL and it was a government investment. The opening of this investment took place in 2014 with the participation of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and the investment was of a purely governmental nature. Expansion and modernization of command... [[But that wasn't the question.]] But we're saying... [[You can't do that.]] Mrs. Member! The question was about media information, so now I am presenting my position on media information. Your Marshal, allow me... [[It was about the people, Minister, whom you asked, and not about the situation when investment was opened.]] Member, I did not give you the floor. Minister, answer me, do not go into polemics. [[But substantively.]] Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Expansion and modernization of the City Command of the State Fire Service in Radom was also an investment carried out by the government and it was the government that acquired a plot from the city of Radom for the purposes of this investment. Renovation of the school in Klud in the municipality of Klwów. This investment was also mentioned in the media information. In 2013, when this investment was carried out, Mr Piotr Papis of PSL was the head of the municipality. [[So what?]] Construction of the Cultural and Artistic Centre in Kozienice. While this investment was being carried out, the mayor of Kozienice Municipality was Mr Tomasz Śmetanka, who was running for the Sejm from the Civic Platform list, Mrs Śmetanka. Construction of a sports complex in Maków Mazowiecki. [[Minister, you are now saying that these people are responsible.]] Member, I recall you... [[This is an outrage!]] Madam, I take your vote. [[You manipulate information by pressing charges against these people. This is a scandal in this room.]] Madame, you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Madam, I move as a question... [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...which Mr Mordak asked about media information. Construction of a sports complex in Maków Mazowiecki. This investment was carried out by the district of Makowski, whose starost was Zbigniew Roman Deptuła, who is a former Member of PSL. The construction of the sports hall in Pabianice was also carried out by the District Starostwo Powiatowe in Pabianice, the head of which is Mr.Krzysztof Habura, President of the Civic Platform in Pabianice. Where are the relationships with the PiS here? Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards the procedures that you have asked, I confirm: there has been no blocking of this procedure. There have been charges against certain persons, including Mr Igor M., who, as you know, broke all ties with the PiS and was also Vice President of President Witkowski's government, so I do not see any context here as regards the Party of Law and Justice. The course of action takes its own course. I have no information on the proposals that Mr Igor M submitted in the course of this procedure. Besides, it is not really a question for the President of the Council of Ministers or for me, but perhaps ask the Minister of Justice. We will, of course, determine this and reply in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: the media information, as you can see from the facts I have presented, does not confirm. There is a limited degree of investigation, there are charges against certain persons, and there should be no allegations of tampering or blocking of such proceedings. High Izbo! Please accept this information. Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz a question. [[I'm sorry, I just wanted to ask.]] Okay, sir. I didn't have that kind of information. Here you go, extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u27	Perhaps, in view of what the Minister said, I would like to ask and repeat the question again, because perhaps the Minister did not understand. Is it true that Mr Igor M., former Vice President Radom of Law and Justice, who also served as an adviser to the current President Radom on behalf of the Civic Platform, has the prosecution filed corruption charges? And did he, in connection with these allegations, apply for voluntary punishment and confess to taking bribes? May I add that at that time it was one of the most important politicians of the PiS in Radom, or perhaps the most important. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u28	Please respond to Minister Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u29	Mr. Speaker! I will answer that question, in some part of it, of course, because I already referred to it by using the knowledge I acquired from the Central Anti-corruption Office's messages, which are known to the public and the High House. Igor M. has been charged. I have no information on any further requests he made in this proceeding. I don't know that right now. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u30	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, take two minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 35 hrs. 9 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 13. I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, there was an unimaginable tragedy, a brutal murder. This was because the prison system failed in some way. This tragedy under normal circumstances would be the first to be paid by politicians who are responsible for prison. In a normal country, a responsible politician would resign. In a normal country, an incompetent politician who escapes responsibility would be dismissed. Meanwhile, in Poland ruled by the political PiS, misunderstood solidarity is more important than political responsibility. High Izbo! Deputy Minister What unfortunately appears more often in front of television cameras than behind his ministerial desk. His behavior makes it very clear that he is a politician in short shorts. He can't take responsibility for the things he's responsible for. However, any politician who has a ministerial function has a particular political responsibility for the area for which he is responsible. And even if he is not responsible personally for single mistakes or individual wrong decisions, he is politically responsible if there is a tragedy in his field, the tragedy we have recently heard. And this tragedy from a few days ago shows very clearly that Mr. Jak can't maintain custody of the prison. So we are appealing once again to President Kaczyński for the resignation of Mr Jaki. Now is the time for his resignation. Which is why we're asking when this resignation will take place. When Mr. Jaki takes political responsibility for this tragedy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What happened?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u32	Mr Michał Wójcik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u33	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The question was about something else entirely. It was a matter of wide-ranging supervision. I understand that, unfortunately, the question has been very politicized. Let me begin by expressing the enormous disapproval that you are trying to involve this dramatic event that took place a few days ago in the campaign. You can't do that. Just to be clear, honourable Member, the director of the penitentiary gives his permission to leave. The application shall be submitted by the educator of the person incarcerated. This request is further examined by the penitentiary committee, which consists of three persons, and the decision is taken by the head of the prison. This is a very far-reaching abuse if it is said that the Minister of Justice or the Deputy Minister of Justice is responsible for such events. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Political, political.]] To give you information, I also checked the data from the years 2009 and 2015. Six homicides: one - during a penalty break, three - during leave, one - during a voluntary departure from the place of employment, one - after obtaining a conditional early release, one murder - 3 days after the end of the penalty, two events - rapes on minors: one - during a leave, one - on the day of freedom at the end of the penalty. Why am I talking about this? Because you're trying to pin the whole thing on a very good minister like Patrick Jak, you're trying to weaken him. This is a very far-reaching abuse. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Ministry of...]] You're asking about political responsibility. [[It's like an IPN.]] There was once a situation, many years ago, in which one of the ministers resigned. It was about Mr. Świąkalski. But there was something completely different about the situation. It was about the murder of Mr. Krzysztof Olewnik and two suicides within a nine-month interval. Although there were recommendations after the first suicide to carry out detailed monitoring, checks, far-reaching shortcomings have led to another suicide. And after all, those people who were deprived of their lives were people whose testimony was crucial to explain the course of those tragic events, and that is why Mr. Ćwiękalski resigned. There was a committee of inquiry. This is a completely different situation, Madame, a completely different situation. The whole society lived in that situation, in those events. And by the way, since there is such an attack on Minister Patrick Jaki, I would like to say that since 1989 there has been no Minister supervising the prison service in 30 years, who would have made so many revolutionary changes. This is Patrick Which proposed changes in the electronic surveillance system. Thus, in the days of the Civic Platform, this system was concerned with restricting the freedom of only those who were sentenced to a restriction of liberty, and in our day also those who were sentenced to imprisonment. There is an avalanche increase in the number of people who are in the electronic surveillance system. What's the difference? The fact that this system costs the state 330 PLN a month, and that being in prison 3300 PLN - 10 times more. And these people can work, they can pay off, for example. outstanding alimony. This is a process of rehabilitation. It's Patrick What caused this system to evolve. This is Patrick who proposed the creation of the Institute of Crime and Penitentiary. This is the institute that provides detailed information that we use every day in our activities. Patrick Jak, the programme of modernization, the largest since 1989, the largest, 1.5 billion PLN, the construction of three prisons. That's Patrick. [[They'll come in handy.]] ...he gave the idea that this program for this uniform service, which never had a modernization program, should be said about it... [[Why don't you answer the question?]] ...never in 30 years... That's Patrick What gave this idea. With regard to what we have said many times here, from this speaker, about the program "Working for Prisoners," who gave the idea? Who gave the idea? What are you smiling at, sir? I'll give you the numbers. [[You are, Minister.]] I think it's me. In 2015, there were around 24 thousand people employed, i.e. 36% Punished. Today is 55%. , i.e. 20% more in 2 years. This is his great success. You should be thanking him for that, and you're attacking him. Today I would like to stress that 83% capable of working people who are imprisoned in prisons, working. This is a great success. Why aren't you talking about it? As far as I'm concerned... [[Because you're lying.]] This is not a lie, these are the specific figures that I am quoting to you, but you do not want to take this into account. From the Norwegian Fund: construction of five production halls. Who offered the production halls, their construction at the plant? Patrick Jak. And as far as supervision is concerned, it's a special department that deals with inspections, completely independent of [[♪ The bell ♪]] The director-general of the Prison Service has just been created thanks to Minister Patrick Jaki. 12 meetings in this area...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u34	Finish up, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: ...was, uh, 12 grand. complaints have been dealt with, 41 checks have been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. An additional question is asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true, Minister, that Mr. Patrick, who oversees the Prison Service, cannot answer this question about the Prison Service because he is campaigning at this time? How is the proper supervision of the Prison Service to function when 830 officers, 125 civilian workers, 11 pedagogical staff are missing, a total of 967 vacancies? In addition, 31 doctors and 38 nurses are missing. The effect is over 2,800 thousand. overtime. There are employees in the Prison Service who have over 700. How should such overworked officers exercise proper supervision of the inmates? How is the Minister to supervise the Prison Service when he is in charge of the election campaign? Why is Patrick Yak not responsible for the death of a woman who did not receive medical help or political responsibility for a crime committed on leave in 2017? And why is Minister Wójcik in the Ministry of Justice when he does everything St. Patrick what? [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are you doing there?]] [[Voice from the room: Why...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u36	Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, answers. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ask a question, let the minister answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u37	Ladies and gentlemen! That is what Minister Wójcik is for, Mr Wójcik, because he deals with children and problems with children. If you'd read the division of competence, you'd know... [[But you don't do prison services, you do what...]] ...that Patrick Jak is responsible for the Prison Service, and Michael Wójcik is responsible for something completely different. About why there isn't today... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why do you answer and not Mr. What?]] ...the Minister, he's on a pre-planned vacation and he's entitled to it. We will not adapt holidays to current questions asked by the Modern Club. [[Of course.]] With regard to the issue of liability for this event, which you have mentioned, I would like to say that the matter was explained in detail during the committee meeting by Minister Patrick Jaki. Today he's being led by the D.A.'s office and there are charges against him in this case. So that this case will be cleared up and there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of statistics of all events, including the description of suicides, this is the data we have. Member of the Commission, 2010,31 suicides in prisons, 2018/18, to this day - 18. [[This Regulation ……]] Of course, these are dramatic events. Excuse me, I have to give you this statistics, too. Number of suicide attempts, for example in 2010 - 221, in 2018 - 133. [[And the officers?]] Total number of events: 3958 in 2010, 1906 in 2018 until today. That's by the way. As far as officers are concerned, today the number of officers is over 27,000, civil servants - 1900. Indeed, today the number of vacancies is 800, with new jobs being acquired. In 2018, 250 as part of the electronic surveillance system. I have been giving information here in detail to the High House on this subject. We're just taking control of the electronic surveillance system - and this is the 250 jobs plus 1080 jobs as a result of the abolition of 15 penitentiary units. It's Patrick What made it happen that the review was finally carried out. In fact, these penitentiary units began to be modernised. After all, the state of some of these units is appalling. As far as financial issues are concerned, in 2017 there was an increase in the average amount of PLN 153 per job. In 2019 another tranche for an average amount of PLN 309 per job is foreseen. The average monthly salary increased in the days of Patrick Jakie since 2015 from PLN 4021 to PLN 4470. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Most Faithful... Minister saw.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u38	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the schedule. Is the process of implementing the power market in Poland running on a timely basis and can all interested people sleep peacefully on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u40	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Skobel corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The power market provides a stable supply of electricity to households and industry in the long term, so that any energy customer in the country will be able to benefit from electricity at the time and in the amount that it needs. It is also the most economically efficient way to ensure adequate capacity, as the contractual power is contracted through an auction in which individual power providers compete with each other. This year is a special year because there will be as many as three general auctions. In the following years only one main auction will take place per year. From 2020 onwards, we will start organising additional auctions in order to get closer to the delivery period, possibly to buy the remaining power. The first power auction will take place on 15 November this year, and the power contracts concluded on it are intended to ensure continuous and stable supply of electricity in Poland in 2021. The planned purchase of capacity in this auction is 22 732 MW. The second power auction will take place on 5 December this year. and is to ensure stable deliveries in 2022. The last auction this year will take place on December 21st. Contracts will be made on it for 2023. The Power Market Act entered into force on 18 January this year, and the first power auction in Poland, in accordance with the transitional provisions, is due to take place on 15 November 2018. Someone might say that there were 10 months to prepare for the auction, but de facto the first auction is preceded by a series of actions, and there are legal acts that I will briefly discuss. In February and March this year. intensive work on the power market rules, which were subject to public consultation before approval by the President of the URE in agreement with the Minister of Energy. The draft rules of procedure were drawn up by the transmission system operator, which received nearly 900 comments. The role of the President of the URE and the Minister for Energy was to work out the text of the Rules of Procedure in a short time. The power market rules were approved on 30 March 2018. At the same time, the transmission system operator worked on the IT system, the power market register by which it carried out the general certification. Between 3 April and 29 May, the general certification of manufacturing units located in the country continued. The certification was carried out by the transmission system operator. Overall certification passed 1167 units with total net power 47,000. MW. It is worth noting that nearly 9 thousand. MW has been announced as planned and planned units. During that time, the Ministry of Energy worked intensively on three implementing acts to the Power Market Act. The result of this work was the adoption of several regulations. One of them is the Regulation of the Minister of Energy of 18 July 2018 on the performance of the Capacity Obligation, its clearing and demonstration and the conclusion of secondary market transactions. This Regulation sets out the times for which the transmission system operator may announce a period of risk, the minimum capacity that may be traded on the secondary market and the unit level of penalties for power providers who, at the request of the operator, do not deliver the contractual power. The following is the Regulation of the Minister for Energy of 22 August 2018 on the main auction parameters for the delivery periods from 2021 to 2023. It is worth noting that an independent team of experts composed of the best professors and doctors of national technical universities participated in the work on the parameters of the auction. This regulation will be issued by the Minister of Energy annually before each power auction. Based on the parameters set out in this Regulation, the operator will conduct capacity auctions. A further regulation is a regulation of the Minister of Energy of 3 September 2018 on financial security provided by power providers and participants in preliminary auctions. In order to eliminate the situation that the price will be determined by capacity market units which will in fact never arise, financial collateral has been used in capacity auctions. This Regulation specifies the authorised forms of security and the unit amount of the security to be transferred to 1 MW of contracted power. Currently, in the whole process, in terms of the power market, we are at the certification stage for the main auction. This is the second type of certification provided for in the Capacity Market Act. This certification is voluntary as opposed to general certification. During certification, power market units are created for auctions and power providers make the final decision on the size of the capacity they will report in the auction. Certification started on 5 September this year. And it will last until the end of October. Also, by the end of October, the transmission system operator is required to set up an IT system to conduct auctions and inform the Minister of Energy and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, as both the auction and other processes in the power market are conducted electronically. Given that all the legal documents needed to carry out the first capacity auction have been issued and that the general certification has been successfully carried out and that the certification for the auction is currently ongoing, the Ministry of Energy does not see a risk to the timely [[♪ The bell ♪]] carrying out the first power auctions in Poland. There is therefore a good chance that the national electricity consumers will gain continuous and stable capacity thanks to the power market...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u42	Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: ...electricity supply in the long-term horizon. Thank you very much. Thank you. Additional question, Mrs Małgorzata Janowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u43	Minister, at what stage are the preparations for the first power auction?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u44	I've presented the stage of preparation for the first power auction. All these issues that precede the first power auction are kept on our side.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u45	Thank you. The next question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: I think this is about the second topic.]] Yes, the other one, Minister. I understand you've already answered, because part of your speech was about the first question, and you're done. Would you like to continue? [[Is that what this is about?]] Minister, I'm asking you. I take it you've already answered Mrs Janowska's question? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Yes.]] So I ask another question, I give the opportunity to ask Mr Gadowski another question. It is addressed to Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. I understand you'll answer for him, too, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Yes, please.]] Here you go, Mr Gadowski. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u46	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! That question was addressed to the Prime Minister. I understand it was addressed to the Minister of Energy. Minister, we are seeing an increasing dynamic of imports of coal from Russia to Poland. That's never happened before. In 2016, more than 4 million tons of coal were imported from Russia to Poland, the following year, 2017, and we already have more, because more than 8 million tons, almost 9 million tons of coal for 13.3 million tons of coal imported to Poland. This dynamic is bigger. Here we come from year to year to growth almost 100% in the case of imports of coal. The year 2018 shows that there will be even more coal from Russia, because in the first months, from January to May, we introduced more than 5 million tons of coal from Russia into 7.2 million tons brought into Poland in general. That's not enough, we're watching a new thread in importing coal from Russia. Coal appears from the separatist republics of Ukraine. It is moving to Poland from Russia with anthracite. Basic question: What is caused by this great import? How does this translate into the Polish economy? What benefits do Poles derive from this? Next question: How does the government deal with coal removal, anthracite from Ukraine? What are you doing? You're taking responsibility, the Minister of Energy says it's none of his business, the Foreign Minister says it's not actually touching him. What's going on here? Beautiful words come from the Prime Minister, the Polish government often emphasizes solidarity with Ukraine, you do everything you can to improve these relations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here we draw from Russian separatists anthracite to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u47	Thank you, sir. I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Tadeusz Skobl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of imports of hard coal into Poland from the territory of the Russian Federation is known to the Ministry of Energy and regularly monitored. Imports of anthracite should be seen primarily as a problem for the European Commission. Incomprehensible is the unequal treatment of occupied provinces of Crimea and Donetsk. Crimean goods are subject to an embargo, while goods - not only coal but all goods - originating in Donetsk were not restricted to their entry into the customs territory of the European Union. We were surprised to note that the territory of Donbas was not subject to customs sanctions, as it was done in the case of Crimea. It is the European Union that has legal tools to limit imports of coal from outside the European Union. A Member State of the European Union may not impose an import ban on its own regardless of what kind of goods it is. The self-introduction of import restrictions would be incompatible with the Community market. The recent increase in imports into Poland shows the demand for this raw material on the domestic market, but also demonstrates the attractiveness of the Polish market, which so far is used by exporters mainly from the Russian Federation. Polish mining is currently facing various kinds of challenges, which are consistently implemented. In accordance with the Union tariff for anthracite transport, a zero duty rate applies as for other types of hard coal. This means, regardless of the origin of the imported coal and the country from which it is shipped, that it is not subject to customs duties when it is transported to the European Union. In view of the general absence of a requirement to provide certificates of origin for goods exported from Russia, the European Union has not concluded or currently applies unilateral tariff preferences to preferential trade with Russia. No specific control measures are required for products imported from that country. Information about the transport of coal originating in eastern Ukraine as Russian coal can be considered as a signal to take control action, but it will be possible only if the proofs of origin of the goods were submitted to the customs authorities on their importation into Poland. Poland concluded a bilateral customs cooperation agreement before accession to the European Union. The Union has also concluded an agreement with Russia on mutual assistance in customs matters. On the basis of these agreements, verification activities may be carried out in order to verify the authenticity of the documents and the accuracy of the information contained therein. However, any findings that imported coal originated in Ukraine and not Russia will not result in another dimension of customs duties and imports of coal originating in Ukraine are not subject to any prohibitions as opposed to the carriage of goods originating in Crimea. The main supplier of hard coal to Poland is mainly the Russian Federation. The Czech Republic was the next for many years. Another major importers are Australia - in 2017 its share of imports amounted to 13%. , then Colombia - from 1% to 8%, followed by the USA, whose share in imports was 6.3%. Currently, it is the second largest importer with a share of 9,8% in general import. The introduction of coal into Poland takes place on two roads - land and sea. The close proximity of the main coal exporters on the one hand and the modernisation and increase of port capacity, as well as the conversion of export infrastructure to imports on the other, make the share of the land road and the sea road at the present time, January-May, even. Similar proportions are presented in the data held for 2017. In the series... on the Polish market there is coal derived from imports. One might be tempted to say that to some extent this is a natural phenomenon, for example due to a geographical pension. It must be noted whether the transport of coal has a significant share and impact on the final prices of this raw material, since transport costs can significantly increase the price of coal in the country. It is therefore much more cost-effective for consumers in the north of the country to purchase coal delivered to seaports or border crossings with Russia and Belarus. In order to show the broad context of imports of hard coal into Poland, we need to make a balance of imports and exports. In 2017, imports of coal from the Russian Federation amounted to 8.7 million tons with total imports of 13.3 million tons. Exports of Polish coal to the European Union and exports outside the European Union during the same period amounted to 6 million tons. Balance: imports and exports in total are 7.3 million tons, and after deduction of total imports from the Russian Federation we receive 2.7 million tons. The extraction of hard coal in Poland in 2017 amounted to 65.5 million t, which means that 7.3 million t as a total balance sheet represents 11% market share, while 2.7 million [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's only 4%. market share. The rise in global coal prices has another important social aspect: the entry of the energy sector into the mining sector has proved to be a very good decision. Energy companies, buying coal from Polish mines, gain financially because Polish coal is cheaper than coal on world markets.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u49	Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: These are real economic benefits, which ultimately translate into lower electricity production costs, thus affecting each electricity customer. The profit that energy generated from purchased coal from Polish mines amounts to about 1 billion a year. Thanks to competitive prices of Polish coal... Minister, you've been way too busy. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: ...there have been no drastic increases in electricity prices. Thank you very much. Is there an additional question, sir? You're welcome. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u50	Minister! I specifically asked what the Polish government had done about importing anthracite to Poland from separatist republics by Russia. Not what the European Union has done, but what the Polish Government has done. Second question. Minister, an amendment to the Coal Quality Act came in yesterday. When will these regulations come in? Will these regulations and this law somehow block or restrict imports of coal from Russia? Those are questions. What are the benefits of this coal import from the Polish economy, Poles? Because it follows that it is Poles who keep Russian miners, Polish taxpayers keep Russian miners, they keep Russian jobs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u51	I answer your first question. As I have already mentioned in my previous statement, Poland cannot impose sanctions against Russia or other countries if these sanctions are not subject to sanctions from the European Union. It's not possible... [[But what has Poland done in the European Union?]] This is a further question, among others. to our MEPs, in this respect, I think it will be addressed in due course. That's point one. As regards point two, I reply that the work on carbon quality issues is being carried out, there is an extended consultation, and it is currently being examined and the relevant regulations agreed by all ministries will come out in the short term.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u52	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the so-called schools. Resort. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development runs, oversees 52 agricultural schools. I would like to ask about their functioning, about financial expenditure, especially in the field of didactics, in the years 2016 and 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u54	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Madam President, for this question. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development runs 52 schools, as she rightly pointed out. As part of the reform of Minister Handke in 1998, the Ministry schools were transferred to the local government and, unfortunately, as far as agricultural education is concerned, these schools did not achieve the intended goal, I do not hide that there was simply a very, very strong degradation of them. Consequently, the recovery of the agricultural school network was decided between 2006 and 2007. At that time, during the reign of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, agreements with local governments were signed, an attempt was made to rebuild the agricultural education network in Poland, the agricultural education network in the so-called. a secondary system, i.e. an upper secondary system. 45 agricultural schools were then taken over. This network of agricultural schools was not enlarged in the period 2008-2015. And it should be remembered that until 1998 there were over 400 agricultural schools in Poland, so this degradation really happened, you can say, total. In 2015, when we once again tried to rebuild agricultural education in 27 professions for the agri-food sector, it was decided to expand the agricultural school network further. Hence, among others. It was supplemented by certain schools in Pomeranian Voivodeship, where there was no school run by the Ministry of Agriculture. On 1 January 2017, two schools were taken over: Swarożyn, Pomorskie Voivodeship, and Żarnowiec, Śląskie Voivodeship. On 1 January 2018, five more schools were taken over to the pot of 52 schools: Bielsko-Biała, Lututów, Marszew, Rudna and Sypniewo in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. As far as agricultural education expenditure is concerned, High Izbo, as far as agricultural schools are concerned, are some of the best-run so-called schools. professional. The amount allocated primarily to practical training, i.e. the teaching base, has increased dramatically. By comparison, as regards education in the so-called. a general professional system, a lesson hour per student costs about 9 PLN and in agricultural schools costs about 22 PLN. This is a diametric difference in agricultural schools run by the Minister responsible for agriculture and rural development. Thus, in 2016 additional funds were allocated to the development of the teaching base from the budgetary reserve, in 2017 it was an additional pool of over PLN 30 million, in 2018 the Public Finance Commission allocated an additional PLN 20 million from the reserve. Therefore, these schools have the possibility of such diametric development, and students have the right workshop to prepare for the development of the Polish agri-food sector. It's really huge money. The qualification system has been put in place to simply recognise these professions, the feasibility of vocational examinations is significantly better in terms of vocational training, compared with other schools, also the so-called proficiency. The maturity exam, the prom exam, is definitely better. We have also taken such a very effective action to promote vocational training, including the use of advertising money, in order to encourage young people to train in our agricultural schools. So here we have primarily the financing of the training base in the current years. But also all the time, in line with the agricultural education strategy adopted by the Ministry by 2022, we are negotiating with the local government at district level to take over further schools, so that this map of agricultural education in the above-basic, upper secondary system is really effective and that access to the agricultural professions for young people is also ensured. The agri-food market, family farms need professionals, so we take such effective measures and develop agricultural education in schools run by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u56	Thank you. Madam, do you have an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u57	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u58	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to raise the problem of the disastrous situation of dairy farmers caused by drought. On behalf of farmers, especially dairy farmers in Lower Silesia and Podlasie, I address the problem of not recognising drought and lack of any assistance to farmers in cattle farmers. In many counties despite the obvious, huge losses resulting from drought, because in fact everything dried up, you can say, some voivodeships, based on the monitoring of the Institute in Puławy, did not recognise this disaster. In these counties, large-scale farmers are farmers of dairy cattle. These farmers no longer have a place to feed cattle, and by spring very far. Breeders are terrified of the need to reduce the breeding stock due to the severe lack of feed. I mean, animals can't stay hungry. Breeders have suffered huge losses in permanent grassland and have no chance without state aid to continue farming, which they have been doing for years. It should be stressed that some of these farms are located in sub-mountain areas where the growing season is almost over. And I have a question: Do you know the disastrous situation of dairy farmers, which is directly due to drought? Why, despite many interventions in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, is the Podlaskie Voivode still using faulty, unfair monitoring of drought conducted by the Puławy Institute? Why doesn't anyone care about the scale of the damage caused by the drought? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he doesn't value his losses?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u60	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. To be honest, unfortunately, there are very little concrete in this question and there are very many inconsistencies. First of all, the voivode has nothing to do with declaring any state of natural disaster. As far as drought is concerned, monitoring is carried out by the Puławy Institute. The Voivode, Madame, only appoints a committee to assess the losses. And that's the difference. The committee shall consist of a representative of local government, agricultural government and an agricultural advisory centre. This is a basic instrument that is used to estimate losses. With regard to the guidelines that you call for for pastures, you are absolutely right here that pastures have also been affected by drought. However, these guidelines clearly state that in the case of estimates of damage to meadows, account should be taken of the period of occurrence and the number of swaths and the deadline for carrying them out, estimating the maximum losses. Their level is set: for two-sighted meadows - the first slice is 60%, the second slice is 40% , for triangular meadows - the first slice is 50% The second is 30%, the third is 20%. In assessing the losses in pastures, the first rotation, May-June - 50% should be taken into account. , second rotation, July-August - 30%, third rotation - 20%. In these guidelines, which are sent by the Minister responsible for agriculture and rural development, everything is described in detail how and what is to be estimated. And the pastures are included there. So here is the role for the committee to estimate the loss, not the voivodeship. The voivodeship's task is, first, to set up such a committee, second, when the local government has already asked for such a committee and has drawn up such a protocol, the voivodship shall approve losses of at least 30%. For the first time in history, something like this happened, that there are 1.5 billion zlotys dedicated to helping farmers affected by drought. In 2015, when there was approximately a similar drought, it was less than 450 million, so we have no scale of comparison. This is three times more aid for farmers targeted precisely at those affected by droughts. Unfortunately, the problem is that local governments do not manage or even use destruction when it comes to recording these losses of Polish farmers. On the basis of these protocols, Commissioner, this assistance will be paid. This protocol is annexed to the proposal to the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. The first selection of such applications starts tomorrow, 14 September, with regard to the farmers most affected, where the crop concerned suffers 70% losses. This is tomorrow, and unfortunately not all farmers have such protocols. Another recruitment begins for these farmers for the first time, because they have always been taken into account only those farmers whose crop losses were 70%. At the moment, such aid is also for farmers whose loss is above 30%. This call will begin on September 26th. The basis for payment of any aid and for submission of an application is a protocol which is unfortunately drawn up, inter alia. by a local government representative. Therefore, local authorities should simply do their homework. Voivodeships should have appropriate documents from local government to approve this protocol, which is an annex to the proposal implemented by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As far as the next part of this question is concerned, a greening derogation was applied in 2018. Fallow land may be considered as separate crops for the diversification of crops, even if grazing of animals has been carried out on such land or was intended for production purposes. In the context of interplons considered to be the ecological area of the EFA, farmers will be able to sow the interplon. Farmers who for the purpose of applying the practice EFA sowed an interspersal pad, but due to drought they could not perform this sowing at optimal agrotechnical time, they would be able to shorten the maintenance period of the interspersal pad for up to 6 weeks, provided that the ozime plants are sown on these land. As far as all these demands are concerned, which are brought to us by farmers, we are really taking this very seriously. This is why such a huge sum, in terms of the state budget, is specifically intended for aid to farmers affected by drought in 2018. As I said, there is a huge difference between less than 500 million and 1.5 billion. These are really huge resources. We are ready for the urgent implementation of these proposals, but the basis for payment of this assistance are protocols which are drawn up, among others. with the participation of local government. As I mentioned, unfortunately, it happens in many parts of our country just such destruction from the self-government. Unfortunately, these protocols are coming down very slowly and there is no basic tool for such assistance to be paid. [[Then why are you returning these protocols?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u62	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u63	Minister! You speak very nicely in general, but that's not true. How long will the farmers be looking for the government? How long will farmers fight to help them with the drought? You're talking about the huge amounts that the government spends on eliminating droughts, but this drought is special, this money is not enough. Absolutely farmers, dairy farmers They're not secure. There are counties, among others. Mountains, kamiennagórski district, Lwówecki district, Wałbrzyski district or even Łomżyński district, where breeders were not included. Minister, disregard, failure to provide assistance to cattle farmers will result in a huge rise in dairy prices. See how much a butter cube costs today. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u64	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u65	When's this gonna end?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u66	Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! She pointed out a lump of butter. Now please note how much skimmed powder milk costs, how much the market price is diametrically lower compared to the years 2015 or 2014 and this is the basic foundation which is the market, an instrument that simply regulates the market. [[Tell me what the government did.]] Coming back, Madam, to your question, I would like to say that in 2015 aid for drought was paid only to farmers who suffered losses of at least 30% on a given farm. [[There was no drought.]] This was not divided into animal breeding and plant production. [[But what was the area?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u68	Madame, you were not disturbed. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: At the moment, we have separated this factor because very many farmers have come out of this system for a simple reason. If animal production was taken into account, they could not show 30% of the losses on the holding. Therefore, 30% of losses are currently taken into account. If this does not come out of the holding for animal production, only and exclusively shall be taken into account for plant production to be effective. The first resolution of the Council of Ministers concerning aid to farmers concerned an amount of 800 million. Now, with regard to the data we have, which we collect on an ongoing basis every week, we have increased this amount at the request of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to PLN 1.5 billion. If more help is needed, we are also ready to support Polish farmers due to drought. On the other hand, as regards the monitoring of drought, in 2015 the monitoring of drought was carried out on the basis of 246 stations across the country. At the moment, this monitoring of drought is carried out on the basis of data collected from 666 stations across the country, so this monitoring is, I assure you, much more effective and much more accessible to Polish farmers. Corn is monitored until 10 September in a decade-long system, root crops are monitored by the end of September in a decade-long system, so many counties will still appear in the case of drought under the so-called. the production of feed, which includes, inter alia, take into account the rearing of bovine animals. [[Applause]] Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u69	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The cultural heritage of every nation is not only a monument, it is not only a material testimony of its past, but also an intangible heritage that creates our collective memory. By decision of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage of 15 February 2010, the tasks resulting from the UNESCO Convention were entrusted to the National Heritage Institute. This body is obliged to act, inter alia. to carry out activities promoting the Convention, to prepare a procedure for the submission of proposals for intangible cultural heritage, to collect information on this heritage, and to initiate various types of actions to promote this heritage. On the national list of intangible cultural heritage you can find such magnificents as Polish national dances, Kraków's showmaking, caroling of New Year's grandfathers in Żywiecczyzno or - since July this year - popular in Silesia Barbórka. The information found on the Internet shows that this list is updated on an ongoing basis and that intangible cultural heritage resources are constantly increasing. Therefore, on behalf of myself and Mrs Dziuk, I would like to ask for information on what other activities are carried out in the Ministry in order to expand or protect intangible cultural heritage. What measures does the Ministry envisage in the future in order to protect intangible cultural heritage? One last question. Is there any way to support those already listed? What are the possibilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u70	Thank you. She corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Ms Magdalena Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about intangible heritage, in more detail, so that all Members are aware of how much has been done and, in general, the policy direction pursued by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. First of all, Poland ratified the 2003 UNESCO Convention on the protection of intangible cultural heritage, becoming a party to the 2003 UNESCO Convention on 16 August 2011. The ratification of the 2003 UNESCO Convention was enthusiastically accepted by the environment and thus met the expectations of both depositaries and NGOs themselves, cultural institutions, researchers, representatives of local government and state authorities. The implementation of the tasks arising from the provisions of the 2003 UNESCO Convention has been entrusted by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to the National Heritage Institute, which you have just mentioned. In the structures of the National Heritage Institute there are 16 field branches throughout Poland. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the National Heritage Institute are organizers of meetings in individual regions, during which they bring together the UNESCO 2003 Convention and the main issues of protection of intangible cultural heritage. What is the protection of intangible heritage? Following a public consultation, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage appointed a Council for the protection of intangible heritage, which brings together experts, namely representatives of the scientific community, NGOs and cultural institutions. Since 2013, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage has kept a national list of intangible cultural heritage, which was also mentioned by the Member. There are now 29 elements on it. The first entries in the national register of good practices in the protection of intangible cultural heritage were made, and the national list of intangible heritage is informative and is a form of dissemination of elements of intangible heritage in Poland. Groups, communities, NGOs, local authorities and individuals play a key role in the creation of a national list and a national register of good practices. Among the traditions declared included the traditions of dudzarski, lacemaking, embroidery, toying, falconing and braiding. At the initiative of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, a programme was set up for the Master of Tradition, which is scholarly in nature, for masters who pass on their skills to subsequent generations in local environments. Intergenerational communication plays an important role in preserving traditional techniques, skills, access to traditional knowledge. The programme envisages a long-term perspective of systematic support for the master and the student, mutual relations, relationships and transmission of knowledge. Depositaries and researchers of tradition can also obtain state support in the program of folk and traditional culture. This programme includes financial support for the creators and institutions around the care of certain individuals. It is about exhibitions, the organisation of workshops for a wide range of continuers of these local traditions. A separate program is run by the Institute of Music and Dance, where the organizer is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. These include the tradition master's school dedicated to the dissemination of traditional skills in instruments and traditional singing, and the master's school in the construction of folk instruments. A new programme of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage was also announced in 2018. It's a program dedicated to cities under 50,000. residents. The aim of the programme is to appreciate and disseminate knowledge about the traditional values present in the material and intangible culture of communities remote from large centres of cultural life. It is addressed to amateur folklore and theatre groups of reconstructive groups, organizations of local community members, e.g. groups of rural housewives, voluntary firefighters. This programme is interdisciplinary. It provides funding for both cultural events and publications, recordings, films, conferences and educational activities. Non-governmental organisations and local cultural institutions are entitled to submit applications in the programme. The funding may cover up to 95% the budget. Currently Poland expects the decision of the Intergovernmental Committee on intangible heritage. Let me just add that after 4 years in the UNESCO World Heritage Committee... I will remind you that during this term we organized the 41st session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, for the first time in Poland, in Cracow, then we managed to include Tarnowskie Góry on the UNESCO Heritage List, so it was a huge success. After the end of our term of office, we managed to enter another committee, this time intangible heritage. In December 2018, the next meeting of this committee will be the subject of this meeting, among others. Polish post: Cracow's Nativity scenery. In June this year. Poland was chosen, as I said, for a four-year term as a member of the intergovernmental committee. I just wanted to say last but not least that it is worth supporting intangible heritage. Non-material heritage is a much broader concept than folk culture. At the same time, by international organizations such as UNESCO we popularize knowledge about Poland and the identity of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome a group of students and teachers from Gorzów Wielkopolski, from the 3rd High School of General Education. Władysław Szafer and the Catholic High School of St. Tomasz of Aquinas, who hosts the Seym today at the invitation of Mr Jarosław Porwich. Enjoy your stay in the Sejm and Warsaw. [[Applause]] And now I ask you to ask Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice. [[Let's move on to the next question, shall we, Marshal?]] Mrs Bartus, after all, I asked Mrs Bartus to ask you a question. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u73	Okay, thank you, marshal. I'm surprised because the question has always been read. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I don't see the minister... [[Voice from the room: It's over there.]] You're the minister. Minister! I'm starting to ask questions about the apartment+ and the advancement of this program. I would like to start by saying that, as in the case of meeting other needs of Poles, we need government cooperation, but also government cooperation, not government attacks, but cooperation. A moment ago, the question was about the situation of farmers and the Platform attacked the Minister of Agriculture that there was too little help, and it was the officers of this formation who often did not even set up a committee for the assessment of damage. The same is true today about the program "Rooming+" - an important program, which, I think, does not have to convince anyone, because there are about 3 million apartments missing in Poland. This is a huge problem. Without the cooperation of local governments with the National Property Resources... This programme seems to be poorly implemented in this weak cooperation. There are often voices that these were our promises, which is why, Minister, I would like to ask you to mention the implementation, because in many places Polish apartments are put into service and Poles are happy, especially in the case of young families. To these young people, young Poles from Małopolska I ask the question: When will the program of living+? In the recent period there was also a change in the program of living at start-up, when the government extended the period of payment for rent. This caused some confusion, because many young people thought that the government had completely withdrawn from the fact that living + is an opportunity to acquire a future apartment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Minister, what's it like with this apartment+ program and...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u74	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u75	...with its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u76	The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. The two points that you have been asking about. The role of self-government. This is an issue that we have clearly decided under the And it is up to the local government to define target groups, rent capacity, choice of tenants, and finally to report their expectations to e.g. the size and number of apartments and the notification of these apartments to the payment scheme. This system of subsidies will help families in a more difficult material situation to receive state support for a period of 15 years with the agreement of the High House. The second question also concerned those laws that we have adopted recently in the first half of this year. One of them is a law that facilitates the implementation of housing investments, where we directly entered an institution of institutional rental with the option of accessing property in the law. In short, there is no doubt that among the tenants of the scheme, there will be those who will only want rent apartments, but also those who will be an appropriate agreement with the notary secured by this legal institution with the option of accessing property. We want the housing programme of Law and Justice, the programme that we wanted to implement already during the previous government, during the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, to include as broad a group of Poles as possible. We want this to be a programme that goes to the weakest people, those who simply require state aid. To this end, we have the giant, the largest money in history for municipal construction. It is money directly from the state budget, and it is available to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I've got the numbers ready. If you are interested, I can tell you exactly how many of these apartments we give up, for example. during the spring edition in 2018 These are really impressive figures, because we have this amount of PLN 6 billion by 2025. Both rental and social construction, municipal buildings will serve those who are worst placed. People who are today between social assistance and the market, i.e. they have no chance of getting a mortgage or financing the construction or purchase of housing with their own savings, can participate in the investment part of the programme. This is the part that we finance with investment funds and that will mobilise 100,000 next year. apartments. If the High Chamber is interested, I have gathered information on all locations where investments will be made this year, and on locations where investments are so advanced that next year they will be put into service. I would also like to show you something that seems important to me. If Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is talking about 100,000. So next year's apartments, which we're going to start building, I want to show you that we're prepared, we have specific locations that we're looking at today. In the case of parts of these locations we are at the stage of creating special purpose companies and obtaining financing, in the case of some of these locations we already have urban and architectural competitions, because we want the program to be also an architectural card, in the case of parts we do documentation, and some are already in operation. Next year, most of these investments will be selected by contractors and these contractors will already enter the construction site. But before I show you a map of these 300 locations about 100,000. housing within the investment part of the programme, I would also like to say that the housing programme Law and Justice is a program that will also serve people who will not directly benefit from state aid, but will simply look for their apartments on the market that they will want to buy, rent an apartment or build their own house. For them, we have, first of all, model solutions in the shape of architecture and architectural projects. We are after competitions and for multi-family construction, and for single-family construction. These are open competitions. You can use these solutions, they will lower the price of apartments. Secondly, increasing housing supply. Complementing the housing market with state support will result in greater competitiveness of this market and a chance for these housing to be cheaper. Finally, the current pre-fabrication system competition will allow for the construction of a network of pre-fabrication factories, which will also allow for technologically reducing the price of apartments not only under the programme but in general on the market. In order not to be literal, I have prepared a map that shows that we really have no intention of building only in big cities, as some say, or only in small towns, as others say. This is the whole of Poland. That's 300 locations. That's 100,000. The apartments we're looking at right now. I firmly believe that with our determination, with the determination of the Prime Minister, this program will succeed and that the Poles will be the king today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the housing market, because unfortunately so far the developer has been the king of this market. Thank you again very much for this question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u78	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Ławniczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u79	Minister! I would also like to ask you what the relationship between government administration and local governments is like in the implementation of this programme. Even in the Minister's statements, there was information that some local authorities who attributed themselves to the implementation of the "Housing+" programme were in fact taking initiatives related to typical municipal construction which did not fall into this framework. Whether, therefore, the government still envisages introducing more detailed legislation and new instruments that would precisely define specific schemes under the National Housing Programme as functioning under the "Housing+' programme, and others under the municipal, social, TBS programmes, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u80	Thank you. Mr Artur Soboń, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Investment and Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We treat the apartment program comprehensively. As important for us are apartments that we dedicate to middle-income people, as well as to help the weakest. It goes on here, for example. social housing, because here as a state we support local governments and without state support these investments would not be possible. For us it is absolutely fundamental that the housing program be for all Poles, so that it is a program that connects Poles, and that everyone knows that state intervention in this area makes sense. We as a country made a mistake after 1990. This mistake was that we believed in the free market and pulled you out of the market. We thought that if there was demand for housing, the market would cope with this demand. Now we have quite a specific market situation, because even though the number of apartments being given is increasing, there were 178 thousand in the previous year, housing prices are also rising, which is, in short, only those who have money on this market, because housing prices are increasing, despite the fact that there are more and more of them. Why? That is what the honourable Member was talking about. Because there is a hunger for housing, that these apartments in Poland are missing today. Indeed, we estimate this deficit at up to 2.5 million apartments. Cooperation with local authorities is extremely important because they play a decisive role in spatial planning, all building agreements, infrastructure arrangements. They will also decide on the system of recruitment and subsidies I was talking about. I wish this cooperation was as good as possible. There is no municipality in Poland today where housing needs would be completely satisfied. If there's a mayor or a president somewhere who says he doesn't need state support in housing, either he hasn't done his homework and he hasn't prepared a proper diagnosis or he's drawing political conclusions. I wouldn't want that. I wish working with the local government was as good as possible. For the first time, we gave the local government instruments that allow us to conduct local housing policy. This is extremely important. This is the task of self-government. The local government is a partner for the Polish government in this area and with each local government we are ready to implement projects within the framework of the
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion about inclusive education in Poland has been going on for more than 20 years. Specific measures have only been taken by the Government of Law and Justice. We need to know that inclusive education is based on a social model of disability perception, which recognises that the causes of disability are inter alia. barriers created by society: social, economic, legal or organisational. The Ministry of National Education, introducing a reform, has just taken care of the education of children with special educational needs, introducing changes that a student with disabilities integrates into peer groups, which ensures that the needs of each student can be met. Such actions reduce the effects of disability and include children in the school community, which is so important and important for the development of each child. This is a very important challenge that allows every student with special educational needs to receive comprehensive help, appropriate to his or her situation and health. Minister! I have a question. What are the main assumptions of changes in the education of pupils with special educational needs, and how is school education implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u84	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. This is an important question and the answer to this question should start by defining what inclusive education is and how we see a child in inclusive education. Generally speaking, education that includes this is such a perception of a child, a student at school, in kindergarten, that each one of them is a student with special educational needs. The one who functions with disabilities is noticed, and the one who is very capable, and the one who is sometimes invisible in the classroom, because at first glance does not cause any problems. Education that includes seeing each student and providing him with the fullest possible developmental and educational opportunities, striving for the student to learn, raise, develop in the group, and, if necessary, to prepare individual educational activities for him. The main objective of inclusive education is to ensure that every student has a high quality of education and conditions to fully realise the development potential at school, in kindergarten, as close as possible to the place of confusion. It's not about us taking the kids out, looking for places, it's about being close to being in their environment. These needs, this diversity of pupils' development and educational needs, e.g. disability, health, life situation or special abilities are understood as potential, as a resource - not as a problem. Because every human being is unique, and the task of school is to find and develop the strengths and abilities of every child and to provide conditions for harmonious development. If a child encounters problems, difficulties in development, e.g. In acquiring knowledge and skills, whether in operation, being with peers, kindergarten or school should take all measures to remove those barriers that lie on the side of the school. These are architectural barriers, organizational barriers or in terms of methods and actions towards the student. It's a school job. But support in assessing the needs of students - because this must also be assessed, because in order to be able to act and take these actions, you need to see the needs - to identify the causes of the student's difficulties, to find effective methods of supporting activity, participation of the student in life and kindergarten, it requires the work of psychologists and pedagogical counselors, but also properly prepared teachers and educators. The Ministry of Education, so seeing education inclusive and thus pursuing inclusive education, is working intensively to prepare legal solutions that will support high-quality education - inclusive education. The work that we have already done and in which we are in the process was preceded by a really broad consultation with associations, with parents whose children operate with disabilities. We talk, listen, and, on the basis of this, prepare legal solutions. There's been a task force. The special educational needs that Minister Anna Zalewska has set up, and within this team, of course, the staff of the Ministry, but also high-quality specialists and representatives of environments that are very much interested in inclusive education solutions. These solutions, which we are preparing, result from solutions of the international classification of the functioning of disability and health. The activities carried out in the framework of the preparation of the model of education for pupils with special educational needs based precisely on recommendations and conclusions from reports of various Polish and national actors have led to the development of a project. This project was dealt with by a team of experts set up in 2017. But already in 2016, a project on the development of standards for diagnosis of developmental and educational needs and diagnostic tools began. In 2017, changes were made to the legislation that introduced this model into current legal solutions. These changes, first of all, provide more opportunities to adapt the organisation and education to the needs of pupils who face school difficulties, secondly, expand the group of students who may be covered by individual activities - not narrower, our solutions broaden these opportunities - thirdly, point to a different approach to disability issues, in line with the UN Convention and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It has also been pointed out that barriers to the functioning can also result from the school's failure to adapt to the needs of pupils and not just from restrictions on the health or disability of pupils. They encourage schools to take action to limit the exclusion of pupils with disabilities from the peer group. I think it is worth stressing that these new solutions really require more commitment from the school, teachers, are more difficult to organize, but they are certainly conducive to the fuller development of our students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, I have more information, and I will present it in the second part of the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u86	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the comprehensive response and the illustration of the model of inclusive education and the actions taken by the Ministry of National Education in this area. However, I still have a question for the Minister on this point. An important aspect of inclusive education is the lifting of all barriers, as you said. Here we depart from the differentiation of children in terms of their development or health problems. I would like to ask: Did the Ministry of National Education foresee how to implement and monitor these changes in view of the changes introduced regarding the education of pupils with special educational needs? And one more thing: Where, to whom will the parent, the caretaker be able to address in the event of problems with the provision of inclusive education at school?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u88	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These are important questions, because apart from creating the conditions that we create solutions, these solutions need to be informed. We organized many conferences, many trainings, attended several hundred school heads, experts. We've called in visitors, at least two at every curator's office, visitors for special educational needs. These visitors train directors who are obliged to meet, discuss a model, education programmes with parents of children who require a separate diagnosis, individual educational and pedagogical programmes or individualised learning paths. I would like to say that these solutions that we have prepared do not restrict the possibility of participating in individual activities, but we do not go out, I repeat: we do not assume that a child who has special educational needs is the problem that best resolves them, excluding them from the group, so that they are outside the group, with a teacher, because then there will be no difficulties in behavior. Then the program is solved by shutting it down, not turning it on. We are aware, and all those who are involved in education are also aware that there are situations where the child must have individual classes. However, I agree that the best therapist for a child is his classmate. And only when all barriers from the school are removed and if the child really needs additional stimulation, development support in the form of individual classes, this class has. What I'm trying to say is that it's not good... Thank you for pointing that out. We try to run an information campaign, organize conferences, distribute e-materials, do what we can, reach out to a specific parent to tell him what his rights are. I would like to remind you that in grants, you can say, there are 7 billion PLN reserved for the implementation of actions concerning pupils with special needs and for pupils with disabilities. This is really big money and good school organization, a good diagnosis of needs will allow it to be properly realized. I want to say that we all need to learn patience, empathy, openness to ourselves, new challenges. I think we're going to meet more and more often with the fact that students are going to need additional support, a good functional diagnosis, not a medical diagnosis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that all these solutions that we are introducing will result in better development support for our children and students. I ask for your support in speaking about how we really look at the changes we have prepared and expressed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020, which was proposed by the Polish People's Party Association - the European Union of Democrats. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Important issue - Rural Development Programme, EU funds, but also significant national measures, whose main task is to modernise, modernise, develop and build the competitiveness of Polish agriculture. Three or two days ago, Mr President said that it was not important for this imaginary community, but I would like to remind you that only in the last two financial perspectives, i.e. 2007,2013 and 2014,2020, within this imaginary community of the European Union, as the President says, Polish agriculture has received about EUR 60 billion to support this sector. If we add national funds to this, of course this is a much larger pool, because it is over EUR 80 billion. I would like to say that Poland was one of the few countries of the European Union, those new members of the European Union, which, from the perspective of both 2004 and 2006 and later, used it very well, almost 100% , and in fact, the budget of the RDP in the 2014-2013 perspective was even slightly exceeded due to the addition of own resources. Today we are alarmed to receive signals from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, but also from the Directorate-General of the European Commission for Agriculture. Agriculture, DG AGRI, that the state of implementation of the Rural Development Programme in Poland is far from satisfactory, that the level of spending does not exceed 23% at the moment Whereas the level of cultivation is also far from what should be achieved in accordance with time. I would therefore very much ask the Minister to answer quite important questions. How much was paid out after the period of more than 4.5 years of implementation of the 2014-2020 perspective under the Rural Development Programme - in quota and percentage terms? How much money has been paid to implement the "Premies for Young Farmers" programme? How much money has been paid for payments to farmers transferring small farms? How much money has been paid for the implementation of the "Restructuring of small farms" scheme? As we remember when we created this programme in 2013 and 2014, the issue of small farms, family farms, by today's ruling majority of the United Right was very strongly stressed. How much money has been paid to modernise farms, how much for investments in farms located in Natura 2000 areas? I would also like to stress that permanent programmes are also being implemented within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, which can be said to be strongly linked to direct payments, such as agri-environmental programmes, which are certainly the statistics that we have today in the field of spending, are significantly improving. So I ask in detail about individual programmes, excluding agri-environmental programmes, not to tease, nor to introduce a political element here, but because after almost 3 years of government of Minister Jurgiel and Minister Bogucki I simply want to help Minister Ardanowski quickly repair these delays and omissions and make farmers who are waiting for this money wait for investment, waiting for development, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, these funds were given to their farms.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u92	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present current information on the state of implementation of the Rural Development Programme. Thank you for that question. This is an opportunity to share what we did during the implementation of the programme we took over. When we came to the department, this program was approved. I will refer to what the Minister said at the outset. The situation was that it was the Government of Law and Justice that negotiated the terms and then the programme was implemented by our successors. It could be said that this good preparation of the programme guaranteed that it was easier to implement later, but also the sum of the amounts that were then available with own contribution - 17.5 million - it was this basic element. Now we have at our disposal 13.6 billion with our own contribution, so these funds are less than €5 billion. As far as the implementation period is concerned, it is difficult for me to agree that this is 4.5 years. Let us recall that the Rural Development Programme was approved in December 2014, i.e. practically in 2015. 19 November 2015 was my first day of work at the Ministry and I have in mind the state of legislation and the status of the posts announced. It was the year 2015, when they were announced, even when we went through, the so-called. Road-related election, modernisation-related, first recruitments, which is somehow understandable, but there was also a whole way of building regulations that needed to be completed. 2016 was the year of launching the programme. So let's not talk about 4.5 years, let's talk about 2 years with this one running year, i.e. 2016, about launching the implementation part of the systems, let me remind you, the non-working regulations of procedures in the restructuring agency, and 2017 and we have September 2018. So this full implementation was 1.5 years - this is not 4.5 years. This process is ongoing and it is active. I'm sure the Minister is fully aware of that. As far as concrete implementation is concerned, here's what I'm going to say: we're in a complex situation right now, because we've approved agreements, which are signed at 43% of the limit of resources. This is the first amount, or 25 billion PLN from this entire pot. And it's just that it's in the weekly reports, and it can be confirmed, and I'm handing over the information here. So we have the degree of selection of proposals, little of that, the degree of signing of contracts for action, because they are intended for both farmers and rural development, local governments. As far as payment is concerned, here we have 1/4 of the funds contracted in the accounts of the beneficiaries, and let me remind you that we have signed contracts for 43%. And it is important that at the moment it is on the side of the quality of applications, communication with applicants, implementation. After all, farmers have to carry out these proposals, recruitments. So we have the potential for this... [[How much money?]] 13.6 billion, 3.2 billion euro, that is 23.4% on accounts. As far as approved contracts are concerned, we have at 43% of the limit of appropriations, that is PLN 25 billion. As far as specific data is concerned... I also understand that as far as programmes are concerned, we are separating these two things, i.e. payments to farmers for rural development from those payments that relate to area payments from the second pillar. So here, of course, the payments. The ONW are also going as part of the development programme. I go in this order: How much money has been paid for young farmers? Four rounds. In this quantity, in the progressive size: the first call is 3300, the last call that we have just completed is 5400, so in four calls we have a total of 17,000. applications for PLN 1.7 billion. [[Signed?]] PLN 1.7 billion. I think what makes us happy is that after each call we analyse what works and what doesn't, what needs to be unlocked, how to encourage young farmers, and this is an effective action. Let me remind you, the first call in 2015 - 3300, the call in 2018 - 5415 applications. At the moment, this last call is being made. Ninety-five thousand were spent. It's a decision. It is because this last recruitment has to be completed plus not all of the previous recruitments have been qualified. But this share of the volume, the number of applications considered is very high. This is a bonus for young farmers. Payments to farmers transferring small holdings. I know the roots of this action. Unfortunately, we are wondering whether this action should be eliminated, because the interest is low. We are talking about this possibility and these farmers' bonuses. Seven, there were two rounds: 500 and 200 applications. But the Minister is well aware of the roots of this action and we believe that, even though we recognize that it is going this way, this is not the way and this action has not been successful, I admit. As far as the restructuring of small farms is concerned, we have three rounds here, including an ASF call, a total of 18,000. conclusions. In the first rounds - 10,000, as part of the ASF, there were not many farmers, but it is important to remember that the rounds were simultaneously and some submitted as part of normal rounds, because they doubled, and they wanted to go into this settlement in their territory and benefit from this support. In general, we have one, the amount that... 8,000. agreements signed. And that's because it's almost $8,000. this is the last call that is currently subject to verification. The amount of PLN 1 billion to be allocated to applications submitted. We're talking about this pot because we also need to distinguish between signed contracts and what's in the accounts. This is a dynamic issue, depending on where the calls are, and I've already mentioned these total amounts. As far as the modernisation of agricultural holdings is concerned, here we can say: we have components A, B, C, i.e. for milk producers, for producers... re-production of piglets, for meat cattle, and of course component D for modernisation and for machines. In the first round, what... Mostly we know that on the one hand we have this package for construction investments - they are in these next rounds of nearly 2.5 thousand, in 2015 - 1.5 thousands. and in 2018 - nearly 900 applications, which is A, B, C. Of course, it also depended on the economic situation that it was, on the interest. When there was a milk situation, there was more milk. In general, there were attractive construction activities. Two calls for component D. At the moment, 14,000 were used. The farmers, they have signed contracts, money in their accounts. At the moment, we have a second call for modernization, 21,000. applications submitted and secured measures. All compliant farmers will receive funding. No one leaves the agency with a receipt. We know there's always a kickback, 10%, 20%, but the financials will be able to get about 17,000. farmers. As far as the Natura 2000 programme is concerned, we have one call here - 2100, 361 million, 1.5 thousand. agreements. That's the bottom line of digital science. We're always working on simplifications, looking at what's not working, it's a wide range. If there's a possibility, I'll show you what we're doing. Nobody says it's easy, no one says there's no problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But these numbers say it's 43 percent signed. contracts for the starting amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u94	Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: In fact, after 2 years of implementation 1/4 of the amount is already in the accounts of the beneficiaries. That's one context. And one more sentence... Minister, I'm sure there'll be time to answer after a series of questions, so I would very much ask you to conclude. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I'll see to it as soon as I can. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first question is asked by Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u95	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think this is an opportunity to really ask how it is with the RDPs, how it is with these EU funds for agriculture. As we entered the European Union, Mr Kalinowski negotiated the terms he had negotiated. He then promised all of us, all of us farmers, also to me that since 2014 payments will be evened out. Minister, then there were further negotiations, you negotiated Minister Kalemba. We remember that cake that was shared. At that time, we were told to all Members, but also to farmers, Poles, that more money had been negotiated in the RDP. Minister, please provide this information as to what measures were negotiated, what were previously in the 2007-2013 perspective and what were negotiated for the 2014-2020 period. Is it true that funds have been transferred from the RDP to direct subsidies to somehow strengthen direct subsidies so that there is no shame for PSL, another shame for PSL, that they betrayed the Polish farmer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u97	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Official data show that 64% were submitted in 2018 applications, signed ca. 42% contracts and payments were made at around 23%. I would therefore like to ask the Minister three questions. Firstly, what concrete measures are being taken by the Ministry and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture in order to speed up the spending of money under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period? I would like to ask that these are effective actions, not announcements. Secondly, Minister, is there a risk of not using money in 2018 under rule n+3? And finally, the third point. What is the prospect of using money from the Rural Development Programme in this perspective in 2019? This is a projection, which is certainly prepared by the Ministry, in terms of spending money. Isn't there a danger of not using these measures here, because rule n+3 is, as we know, very dangerous. That, too, must be noted. So the question is, are we really prepared to make maximum use of the money that is designed within the limit of spending on this programme in 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u98	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Mr PSL - The Union of European Democrats will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u99	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Leader has a strong interest in the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, but the use of the limit is less than 7%. For this support area, there are barriers that prevent the receipt of grants, e.g. the period of waiting for the grant is very long, sometimes even up to 2 years after the application, the application, which in many cases results in the applicant's withdrawal from the project. Long procedure for introducing formal requirements in legislation, i.e. in regulations or regulations in respect of selected areas, there were few calls for certain areas of action. So I would like to raise a specific question: What is the Minister going to do to overcome these problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u100	Thank you. The question is asked by Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The rural programme, support for rural areas, is also a measure used by producer groups. In both the previous and the present context, specific measures are earmarked for this. Minister, a broad echo, especially in 2016, has been reflected in the media, and not only in the issue of misuse of funds by producer groups in 2013 after the previous perspective, until 2014. In connection with the audits carried out, it turned out that the European Commission questioned the reliability and purpose of spending about PLN 3 and PLN 700 million on Poland, i.e. 10% an envelope that was entitled to this action. I know that the Ministry, that the previous Minister of Agriculture, Mr Bogucki, appealed against this decision, and I would like to ask what they are at this moment. the effects of this appeal. One of the effects of the misuse of funds was probably also a 20% reduction in the envelope for producer groups in this perspective, just in the years 2014-2020. Is that true, and if so, are there still opportunities to maintain this pool of funds that was originally negotiated in the producer groups for the period up to 2020? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u102	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions. The questions will be brief. In general, I would like to repeat the question, although the Minister said it, but perhaps we could systematicise it: What is the percentage of the implementation of the programmes for young farmers and the modernisation of farms? I am mainly interested in the modernisation of farms in the axis concerning the use for modernisation and conversion, the re-training of production, and this is linked to the current problem of African swine fever. Were there any proposals related to the modernisation of the holding to change production and how many were there? Second thing: What agreements have been signed and have they been used under sub-measures 5.1, 5.2? These are the areas where this sub-measure can be used and applications for reimbursement, for example. to perform bioinsurance. It's very important. Then: How many payments have been made, signed or how many applications have been submitted and how many agri-environment payments have been made? How does that even look? Can the Minister tell me whether and in what axes and activities the resources of the RDP are used to combat ASF and mitigate the effects of ASF, disasters and storms? These are actions from the RDP that could be used to mitigate these difficulties. My question is mostly about the fact that we have $250,000. holdings keeping pigs. Question: "How much did the percentage of these farms even ask for help, bioinsurance, possibly modernisation and retraining?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u104	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a little historical question, and I'm sure it's detailed, so I think I'm gonna ask the Minister for an answer in a written form. From 19 October to 17 November 2015, the selection of applications was carried out, among others. as regards the development of the production of piglets as part of the action: Modernisation of agricultural holdings. At that time, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture gathered 297 applications for the production of piglets for an exact amount of PLN 221.5 million and the maximum support was expected at 900 thousand. PLN per beneficiary. In this recruitment, there were also proposals for the development of meat cattle production - 654 applications for the amount of PLN 231 million and for the development of milk production - in turn 1529 applications for the amount of PLN 504 million. For these two operations, maximum support of 500 000 was envisaged. PLN per beneficiary. And a question. This is also related to what a colleague has just asked, and in general to the problem facing Poland, is Polish agriculture. How has the agency, already under the direction of law and justice, dealt with these requests? I would very much ask for a written answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u106	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the action on agricultural producer groups. Minister! I would like to ask if this programme was conducted by the previous authorities, the PSL and the Civic Platform, that there were a lot of irregularities. Is it true that producer groups were often founded in one family by people who were connected to a given party, then ruling, i.e. the PSL and the Civic Platform? Whether these irregularities are so large that they had to deal with this, among others. Central Corruption Bureau? I would also like to ask: What funds are earmarked for small farms in recruitment, which will now take place, and what funds are earmarked for non-agricultural business activities, where recruitment will be launched in a moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u108	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My questions will concern actions implemented through local governments of voivodships. The information gathered shows that there is still a problem with the implementation of proposals, in particular those which go through or which are related to local development strategies, namely practically every proposal is returned to the amendment of the local government to beneficiaries. So here's a clear problem with the complexity of the procedure or the impureness of the forms. I'd ask you to address that. Another issue is basic services for the population. The voivodship authorities inform about the exhaustion of the allocation. We're in the middle of... In 2018, the money is gone. Is there any chance of increasing the allocation? Another issue concerns the LAG's activities. There 50% of the funds are intended to be allocated to the general development of entrepreneurship. What's the story? Isn't there a problem here? Because this component, this element usually went hard. And action: renovation of the village. The voivodship authorities are only now deciding the first recruitments. Why are you so late? Why was it decided in relations between local governments and the Ministry about such a timetable for implementation of actions? It seems that the implementation of actions that directly affect the development of local community activities, the quality of life, the quality of Community life, however, should be spread over the entire programming period, rather than simply accumulated or taken only halfway from the perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u110	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u111	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Farm and business development, business start-ups and entrepreneurship is an important branch, specifically priority 6. Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. In this area, there are irregularities concerning the reliability of the procedure for granting aid under the action, which is based on a lack of time in relation to the existing rules for examining applications, which is due to the large number of applications per employee and the low quality of applications which force multiple additions and clarifications. Taking into account the long-term process of examining aid applications, the very high percentage of applications rejected and the low level of contracting and spending on the implementation of this priority, even exceeding the ceiling for aid applications submitted so far do not guarantee the implementation of the planned budgets of actions and the achievement of the values, indicators provided for in this programme. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister what steps to improve the process of examining applications for aid in the context of farm development and economic activities, business start-ups and entrepreneurship in order to ensure the full use of the funds planned for their implementation and to achieve results on the growth of the economic competitiveness of rural areas, the development of entrepreneurship and the labour market, and consequently the increase in employment in rural areas you intend to take, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u112	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many farmers note the complex procedures and rules for using the resources of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020. They are mostly complaining about enormous bureaucracy and bullshit regulations. Minister, I have a question: can you make appropriate adjustments in your opinion in order to simplify the use of this assistance? And one more question in this regard: What measures have been taken to improve the process of applying for aid by farmers? From my knowledge, even the most educated and prepared farmer without the support of advisors is unable to cope on his own. I know farm advisory services are helping farmers, but I also know that ODRs have been very neglected over the last few years. First of all, the wages are very low. I will raise another topic, Minister, namely, according to information provided by the Ministry of Investment and Development, by the Minister of Investment and Development Jerzy Kwieciński, five Eastern Poland voivodships, including the Podlaskie voivodship, could lose about EUR 1 billion from the current EU perspective. I also know that during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the then Minister of Agriculture sent some of the tasks of the RDP to the Seymists. I have therefore a question: What is the use of the RDP resources in Podlaskie Voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u114	Thank you. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about this worrying information coming from all over the room, what is the actual current use of resources available in the RDPs and whether there is a risk of having to return them. This is the most important concern that signals come to us and accompany us. How much is the 2015 allocation? How much have we used so far and will we use it by the end of the year? Let us remind you that each country must use the allocation of EU funds within three years following its transfer under rule n+3. Last year at this time to release was about 10% 2014 allocation and this year is around 15.5% 2015 allocation In particular, what is the state of expenditure from the RDPs in the funding of Natura 2000 sites. Evidently, what we see every day, the Minister of Agriculture and his subordinates are failing to carry out their statutory tasks. It's exactly the same with RDPs. Therefore, in the last quarter - this is what our voters suspect and suggest to us - we can expect to spend funds on the so-called CAP from RDPs. soft projects, because this is the only way to quickly spend large amounts of money. The question on the lips is pressed, and there is suspicion as to how many PiS activists will start studying MBA from October. for money from the RDP, which, however, should go to farmers and rural areas. Is that why there are no investments in RDPs because the poorly paid and overcharged ARiMR officials are unable to work more? Is anyone, and who, personally is responsible for this poor use of resources from the RDPs? And do you, for example? Minister knows that in 2017 for money from the RDPs [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only two farms...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u116	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u117	... Did they change the business profile? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u118	I would like to ask the question of Alexander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u119	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The agricultural retail trade is one of the forms of retail trade for which separate regulations have been adopted in the Polish legal order for the supervision of official food control authorities and certain tax preferences have been introduced. Family retail is an important element in increasing the market share of agricultural producers. Minister, is it possible, within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, to support producers who wish to benefit from such facilitations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u120	Thank you. Welcome to the Sejm of Firefighters' Volunteer Firefighters in the Rock, who came here at the invitation of Mrs Elżbieta Duda. [[Applause]] But my colleague Jacek Osuch also participates in their introduction. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please take the floor, to ask Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Companies of commercial law, cooperatives, companies of the Treasury have always been the leaders of progress, they have always been characterised by high commodity production, they have set goals. Minister, when will you restore, in constitutional practice, equal access to finance for companies and cooperatives also in the RDPs, to start, to modernise farms for young farmers who have completed education, who are not in the CRUs, and in the CSOs? You fall, you fall, ministers, into the same mental ceiling, namely, in the case of the words "Company," there is automatic information that large farms have to cope on their own. But when this is divided by the number of hectares or families employed, in the vast majority of cases this is the average of the individual farm. I would like to say, Minister, that you will not sign up positively on the pages of the history of Polish agriculture, you as ministers, ministers of agriculture, real hosts, thus managing and creating illusions. You create illusions of the flow of money into the country in different forms, in different types, and you just can't see that money. And I'll give you an example. This will be an example of drought. You are excited by the amount of 1.5 billion PLN in the future, and when we have 10 million ha and multiply it by 2 t on average per hectare, counting all cereals, and times 600 PLN, this gives the amount of 12 billion PLN damage on farmers' incomes. These are illusions, ladies and gentlemen, and you seem to have great money. That's not how you do it. Farmers will decipher you exactly. Yeah, it's a shame about the resources used - 23% PROFESSIONAL PROFESSIONALITY Minister, mercy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u122	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of his information, the Minister presented country-wide statistics on the use of funds. Please specify this for my warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship. Since this is a specific question, I would ask for a written reply. In connection with my beautiful Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, I have a question: How does the use of funds for agricultural programmes by the Sejmik Województwa Warmińsko-Mazurskie represent? Is there not a risk that these funds will not be used? As a result, these measures could lead to a reduction in the new perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u124	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. [[She's not here.]] No, it doesn't. In that case, I would ask you very much to ask Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u125	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The resources allocated to the RDP in the 2014-2020 perspective were still negotiated by the previous ruling PO-PSL coalition. I have a question for the Minister. Do you believe that these funds have been allocated fairly to the various voivodships and how they have been used? And I would particularly like to ask how they were used in the Mazowieckie voivodship specifically by the marshal. My next question concerns ODR activities. How does the Minister see the improvement of this institution, which has been neglected over the years, and this is an extremely important institution that provides support to farmers who are suffering from enormous bureaucracy and need support in this area? And how does the Minister see the recuperating of farmers' work as well? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u126	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Autumn 2015 The Świętokrzyskie Agricultural Chamber has made a diagnosis of the state of Świętokrzyskie agriculture. I must admit that this diagnosis contained very many criticisms about this situation and among many problems, problems relating to the years 2007 to 2013, raised by Świętokrzyskie farmers, problems which made it difficult for them to use EU funds, including the resources of the RDPs, or to reduce the efficiency of farms, among others. Two I'd like to draw attention to. The first were frequent amendments to regulations that farmers were too late to learn about, which resulted in adverse decisions being made for them, and, as farmers said, excessive and complicated bureaucracy. Hence my first question: Has there been positive changes in this respect for farmers in the last 3 years? Are the regulations more durable and the documentation simplified? The second problem was the obstacles contained in the organic farming legislation, which caused farmers, fearing reimbursement of part of their payments, to abandon the development of organic farms. How does the Minister assess the support from the RDPs for organic farms producing healthy food? Finally, the last issue which was not raised in the document of the Świętokrzyskie Agricultural Chamber, generally related to the use of EU funds - the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, in which the Polish People's Party is totally governed, is in a group of five voivodships in which EU funds are least used. This may result in the reimbursement of appropriations to the Union budget. How does the Minister feel about using funds from the Rural Development Programme in Świętokrzyskie Voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u128	Thank you. The question is asked by Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the use of funds from the Rural Development Programme has slowed down in recent months, I would like to ask the Minister how much the authorities of the Marshal's Office of the Lublin Voivodeship use these resources. Is there a chance to further support farmers and improve application procedures in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? How did the producer groups in Lublin Voivodeship work and how did they work? Were they intended in a transparent manner? Was their proper functioning subject to control? If so, what is it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u130	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u131	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Rural Development Programme 2014 and 2020 is implemented with different results in the areas of operation of voivodship self-governments. My questions are about Lower Silesia. What is the degree of implementation of the programme, i.e. for what amount of applications have been submitted and does this cover all the appropriations? Have they all been positively considered and if not, for what reasons? To what extent have the measures been used as regards the proposals adopted for implementation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u132	Thank you. The question is asked by Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of this situation in agriculture, this year's particularly difficult, I would like to ask what is and will be the estimated impact of this year's drought and African swine fever on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. I am, of course, asking in the context of the need to use the funds within a certain period of time. Will it not be a problem to maintain the budget of this programme? That's what I'd like to ask. I would also like to ask about how these funds are used by the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u134	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice will speak. There isn't. This is Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u135	Dear Marshal! Minister! Some of the tasks concerning the use of funds from the Rural Development Programme were delegated by the Ministry of Agriculture led by PSL to marshal offices. We know that in many of them the level of use of external resources is worryingly low, and five local governments of voivodships have serious problems, they are at risk of shifting funds to other regions or even returning them, and we are talking about the amount of inexpensive, because 1 billion euros. Among these local governments of voivodships is unfortunately also the local government of my voivodship, the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie. We know that recently there has been a slowdown in the use of funds from the Rural Development Programme by marshal offices. I wanted to ask, Minister, at what level at the moment the Kujawsko-Pomeranian Marshal's office is using support from the Rural Development Programme. What support could the inhabitants of rural areas of my voivodship count on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u136	I ask you to ask Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice. Mr Bogdan Rzońc - another one who asked the question. There isn't any either. Okay, we've exhausted the questioning formula. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do not be surprised that we are concerned about the state of implementation of the Rural Development Programme and concern. The Minister informs us that 23% appropriations have been paid. When my coalition ruled, the Polish People's Party - PO, after that time, was already paid over 40% of the funds and contracted over 60. Minister, there's something that bothers me the most - you can't keep referring to your predecessors at the end of the third year of government, you can't blame your predecessors. When I was a minister, I never referred to my predecessors. Never. I've always done my job by looking forward. Let me remind you that in 2007, when I took over the RDPs after you, 23 accreditation tasks were only 4 or 5. All the tasks had to be accredited in the European Commission. You got the RDP fully accredited and all you had to do was implement it. Mr Telus regretted the amount of funds negotiated by the Polish People's Party in relation to the 2007-2013 perspective. In this regard, Mr President, he made it clear to the electoral court in 2015 and stated that the Polish People's Party had negotiated higher resources in the 2014-2020 perspective than the PiS in the 2007-2013 perspective. You were supposed to apologize to PSL for that. You still haven't executed the court order. [[Applause]] Let me remind you: the 20072013 perspective is the EU's agricultural funding of a total of EUR 28.6 billion, the 2014-2020 perspective is EUR 32.1 billion. Yes, we have shifted from rural development to direct payments of EUR 4.9 billion. Thanks to this, direct payments in Poland today are at an average European level, but this 4.9 billion has been complemented by national budget resources and you are still obliged to do so. I would also like to ask the Minister what level of use is in cohesion policy, because the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture and the decision of the Council of Ministers were such that from cohesion policy to rural development we allocate EUR 5.2 billion. Are these funds being used? If so, I would also ask for information on what purposes they are used for, and if not now, in writing in detail. You have regretted the issue of producer groups. When I entered the Ministry of Agriculture in 2007, these groups were A little over 300. It is impossible to create a competitive balance between farmers and processing and trade if there are no strong groups, organisations and cooperatives. This Danish cooperative guarantees farmers a partnership with regard to processing and trade. [[Exactly.]] When I left, these groups were almost 1.5,000. Strangely enough, within 2 years of the PiS rule approx. 470 groups have been disbanded. Why? It is precisely because instead of sending advisors there to help them account for EU funds, straighten out some difficult, complicated issues, you've been working on creating a national farm-destroy facility, because it's not a farm support facility, and you've put the farmers in the hands of the prosecutors. So if prosecutors go to producer groups, don't be surprised that not only groups are dissolved, but also new groups are not practically formed. Minister! Two more such essential elements. Now, what happens to the selection of conclusions? In the D component, which concerns modernization, you gathered around 30,000 in 2016. conclusions. Why 18,000? The applications were immediately rejected? Where were those counselors you took under your wing? Why didn't they help farmers prepare applications so that they could be considered rather than rejected? In another component, ABC, 1,500 applications were submitted. More than 800 applications were rejected. So once again, I would like to stress: you should really replace the national agricultural extinction centre with agricultural support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and advise farmers on how to apply correctly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u138	Thank you, sir. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u139	...because I have serious concerns that, unfortunately, the resources from the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020 will not be fully used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u140	Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr.Ryszard Zarudzki. [[Correct, because my name was mentioned.]] [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: It was mentioned. I think he wants to apologize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u141	Of course, Marshal, my name was mentioned. I think the Minister misunderstood me because I asked if it was true, Minister - I would ask you to answer this question - that Prime Minister Pawlak, who introduced us into the European Union and negotiated the terms, promised us, farmers, me personally, to all the farmers in Poland, that since 2014 subsidies will be compensated, and that they are still not, and whose fault it is, and whether it is true that Mr Kalemba, a representative of PSL, also negotiated the prospect for 2014-2020, was also negotiating the perspective of the Polish People's Party, and whether or not we still have uncompensated funds, is the fault of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Why do you not listen to Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said that he personally negotiated the entry into the European Union?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u142	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr.Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for today's debate. My colleagues and I listen carefully. Every critical look or look from the side gives us a new context when it comes to what we do, and we will examine it very carefully. There's a lot of confusion here, too. We're not talking about the subject of the development programme. Not to all things, but to some of the most important things I will want to address briefly, but where I can, we will also provide written information later as requested. What concrete actions do we take? That's what we're doing when it comes to the RDP. After each call, we analyze the regulations. In the last year, we have introduced almost 30 amendments to the Rural Development Programme and there are changes in the various regulations. This is an EU bureaucratic procedure, which is why the new programming period is supposed to simplify it, and we will have a national strategic plan, but we are facing this reality. I would like to refer to what specific actions are. If this were to be mentioned, it would have to be said that there are a number of simplifications for beneficiaries, for example, what concerns these main measures implemented, i.e. reducing the number of annexes. I could talk a lot about it here and in detail, in any case we monitor it with practices, which means we're not only figuring out what could be easier here, but we also meet after each call. Slowly it's working, we have feedback. With regard to whether financial resources are at risk - here we are talking about principle n+3 - we have already fulfilled this from 2014, i.e. for 3 years we have to transfer a certain pool of funds to the beneficiaries' accounts. The question was whether n+3 was at risk for 2018. 2015 as a starting point. At the moment, as regards the amounts transferred to farmers, there is no risk. We monitor it, we have estimates, and this, you can say, in weekly mode. These are important... The forecast developed together with ARiMR indicates that at the end of 2018 we will use it with a backup. It's important. And most importantly, there's no danger that the measures according to... The n+3 rule is so difficult that if we do not meet the condition of the amount of funds in the beneficiaries' accounts, then the money will be taken. There's no such threat. The second threat with regard to the Rural Development Programme, which is also a motivating factor for work and monitoring, is the implementation framework, i.e. the implementation of priorities. Yes, we have some problems here with the third priority, yes, we have the risks of failing to meet the priorities, in particular as regards groups of agricultural producers, but this does not mean losing money, but moving funds. I think we could do a lot of things. to say if we are dealing effectively with groups like groups were before... We are confusing groups here because we are talking about groups of fruit and vegetables that are not covered by the RDP funding, and we are talking about groups of agricultural producers financed by the RDP. I'm talking about this situation, and I don't want to talk about things that aren't funded so that we don't mess with this whole reality anymore. So group action - that too would be a lot to talk about. We have an analysis of how, why these groups, e.g. These 400 groups, which the Minister mentioned, have resolved. That's the truth. But when did they start their activities and why? It would be worth analyzing. This is one pot, rule n+3, the frame of execution at this point. The question arises, of course, very well-founded, what about the n+3 rule in 2019 and what exactly we are doing. Transfers from county offices to headquarters, investment support office. This is the monitoring of this regulation, especially in 2019, so that the corresponding number of contracts can now be signed so that it can be realized and the corresponding amount... In accordance with the principle of n+1189 million PLN must be issued in 2019 in the accounts of beneficiaries of... euro. And that rule will be fulfilled. We have to look for balance. It's not easy, but we've got it under control for today. What are we doing? And even if we look at the burden on regional branches, there is the possibility of helping neighbouring branches, employment, finding a balance between the part concerning payment applications and the signing of contracts, and staff decisions on work and intensity. We're monitoring it, there's no threat at this point, but there's work to be done. As far as Leader is concerned and the implementation of this package is concerned... There have been a lot of topics that I would like to address. Here are the delegated tasks, and I'll go back to ASF, to those specific questions that were asked. As far as delegated tasks are concerned, Leader, I think that because of the information I have, we would have to confront this here. On average, payments in the country are already 20% as regards Leader and the agreements are signed in 55%. But, as far as delegated tasks are concerned, these are delegated tasks assigned to marshal offices which, I am very sorry, also participated in the process of preparing documentation, organisation and technical assistance. Here there is great concern on our part, because in one reality the funds are less, and in the other reality, especially in recent months, it is a strange fact that we are stopping the transfer of funds to beneficiaries. How to explain the fact that we've had a radical drop in the last few months, and before that, the dynamics... Because that money wasn't much. It must be acknowledged that these measures were very quickly distributed at the contracting stage, while the problem arose at the stage of implementation and payment requests. Analysis of individual voivodships... I don't want to have any political guesses here, but I'm very sorry, and we also have this suspicion that it is specially intended to show that the Ministry is not doing well and that these delays are due to the tardiness of the Ministry, in the framework of a political struggle. I wish I could believe that's not true. [[And what's the percentage of the RDP, Minister?]] 5% Leader, 10%, 15% PROFESSOR. This is 9 billion PLN. [[That's only 15% of the total.]] That's why it's a surprise to us that there aren't many resources. Everything was swallowed by local governments - we know why - money was transferred to cohesion policy and monitoring there. And why was it stopped just now, during the election period? I really... There was a meeting at the agency yesterday. I don't know the results yet. There were meetings with representatives of marshal offices, during which we studied this very thoroughly. Please give us some time to make these final conclusions. As regards Leader - Mr Wilczyński - we are analysing implementation. I know the problems, but not all depend on the ministry - not all depend on the ministry. Cases related to ASF and what activities were used. Now we're still going to process, there's an action to support prevention investments, prevention, where we've launched 100,000. for the beneficiary, we introduced a lot of detailed information, we changed the RDPs, because the RDPs had to be changed - 50 pigs out of 300. These amounts are pretty serious. The number of applications accepted - there is no explosion of thousands of applications, but please remember that the RDP is only a supplement. If necessary, I have detailed data and these figures I can now serve - I do not need to, if you, Members, are interested, I will gladly give you information, there is no mystery here. Restructuring of small farms, ASF lines and quotas - we allow bio-insurance calls [[♪ The bell ♪]] all over the country, we take different actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can say yes, thanking you again for all the comments - we will be determined to listen to them, whether they have confirmation in reality or not, and implement - that the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for today, as well as in this short term, 2019, is the most important. Each period has its own specifics, and it needs to be... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] [[Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much.]] The previous period was implementation, now we have a completely different situation. There is no reason to talk about the risks to the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u144	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u145	Minister! The Rural Development Programme 2014 and 2020 is, as it turns out, a rather complicated procedure for raising funds. Minister, I would like to ask: What does Pomerania look like on the map of Poland? But how does he cope with this rather complicated procedure? An important issue in the implementation of the RDPs is the construction of municipal roads. As of 24 September 2018, aid may be applied for operations of the type of construction or modernisation of local roads within the framework of the action: Basic rural services and renewal in rural areas covered by the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. Pursuant to the resolution adopted, applications can be submitted from 24 September to 31 October 2018. Co-financing can be applied for, among others. municipalities and powiats. The available pool of funds in the competition is over PLN 18.5 million. What is the situation of Pomerania in this matter? A separate issue is the lack of proper care for agricultural problems at the level of the municipality. Many farmers are convinced that there should be a strict cell in each municipality. agricultural problems, not agricultural problems when solving other problems. Don't you think that the Minister should operate in rural communities, even in one person, but only in agricultural matters? It's a last-minute message. Most requests for drought losses are rejected. The decision of the farmer to use is not respected: animal or plant production, contrary to the decision of the Ministry in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u146	The Social Policy and Family Committee submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds, print No 2823. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland (print No. 2786). I ask the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland a bill amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. This project is commonly called a small reform of the SKiD, a small reform of the management and command system in the Polish Army. Why is it small? Because this is the first stage of our actions related to ordering the situation, in terms of command in the Polish Army. The next phase will be a project that will restore the command of types of Armed Forces, which will eventually put the situation in order. Why have we decided on the stages of the change in the management and command system? To follow this process, to keep this process under control and to have a satisfactory effect as soon as possible, because a major reform of the management and command system will certainly take much longer, and we are living in a situation where we need to be aware of the dangers that lie ahead of our homeland. Therefore, we need to react quickly and efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by referring to the Latin maxim: si vis pacem, para bellum - you want peace, get ready for war. This is undoubtedly the maximum of the tasks and objectives that stand before me as the Minister of National Defence. We want peace, but in order to gain peace, the Polish Army must be, first, more numerous, second, equipped with modern equipment and, third, must be more firmly embedded in the structures of the North Atlantic Alliance. And these three projects, these three objectives we're pursuing. Firstly, the Polish Army must be more numerous, therefore we organize the process of increasing Polish Army units. This process concerns among others. the establishment of a new tactical union of the Polish Army, i.e. a new division. The 18th division of the Polish Army was established, it is located east of the Vistula, the command of this division is located in Siedlce. I've also called a division commander, this is an experienced commander, this is an officer who's been in charge for the last 15 years. The Giżycka Mechanized Brigade, i.e. the troops working daily within the framework of the eFP with NATO allies, and especially with the United States Army. This is a process - increasing the number of the Polish Army. Secondly, the Polish Army must be equipped with modern equipment, therefore I signed in March this year an agreement with our American partner on the equipment of the Polish Army in Patriot rockets. This is indeed the state-of-the-art equipment, this is an in-depth change in terms of defence capabilities of the Polish Army. Negotiations on the implementation of the next programmes are ongoing, so this is a process in which we gradually exchange equipment from post-Soviet to state-of-the-art equipment, equipment compatible with the equipment used by allies, equipment which guarantees the defence capabilities of our country. And the third element - the stronger settlement of Poland within the North Atlantic Alliance. This is served by decisions made, decisions carried out in connection with the NATO Summit of July 2016, i.e. the presence in Poland of allied forces, U.S. troops, British troops, Romanian and Croatian troops, but also the activity of the Polish Army. As you know, the Polish Army is stationed in Latvia, the Polish Army is stationed in Romania. We are also active with regard to the quota in Afghanistan, the quota in Iraq, the quota in Kosovo - these are the quotas of the Nativ troops, but also within the framework of the European Union's activities - the Polish Army is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Polish Army is in the Mediterranean, this is the last EU mission that we are also participating in, so we are active. In this way we build our country's position within the North Atlantic Alliance and within the European Union, in this way we show our solidarity, but in this way the Polish Army also acquires skills, trains with allies, learns exactly the procedures associated with the daily operation of allies' troops, so this process is undoubtedly very valuable for defence capabilities of the Polish Army. Ladies and gentlemen, and what is the subject of the project, the change of command system. Here we are repairing the error that was made by introducing the current command system on 1 January 2014, a non-transparent system, a system that arouses, well, such unpleasant interest of our allies, because our allies ask who to talk to when it comes to exercises. military - with one command, because one command organizes specific exercises, or with another command, because another command organizes specific exercises. It doesn't make sense, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't make sense. In the military, in every army, there should be a chain of command, there should be clear rules on crisis response. Therefore, the submission, which I have the honour of proposing to you, sits as the first soldier of the Republic of Poland head of the General Staff. He will be the one under the command of both the General Commander of the Armed Forces and the Operational Commander of the Armed Forces. As part of this change, we also assign the Support Inspector under the supervision of the Chief of Staff. These are the actions that result from the assessment of the situation that result from the observations that result from drawing conclusions on the situation that is taking place today. I would like to stress that it is important that the Polish Army is ready to resist aggression if it were to happen. And since we are living in troubled times, I will appeal to words, familiar words, but I think they are worth recalling today as well. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński in Tbilisi in 2008 after the Russian attack on Georgia said: Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, then the Baltic States and then Poland. The geopolitical situation changed in 2016, because then the decisions made at the NATO Summit introduced a change in stationing - I was just talking about it - allied forces in Poland and Polish troops also in allied countries. But let me remind you that in 2008 the rulers of that time underestimated these words, said that Russia is a responsible partner, that one can rely on what the Russian leaders preach and, above all, one Russian leader, who is still in power, was also in power at that time. They didn't even verify their grades after the Smolensk tragedy, they kept saying the same thing. The year came 2014, attacking Russia on Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea. Fortunately, in Poland the power changed in 2015. The government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, sets itself the objective of ensuring the safety of Poland. Hence, as I said, the implementation of these three points and hence the change in the introduction of a transparent command system in the Polish Army. I'll end by recalling Napoleon's words. Well, Napoleon said that in the war, he wins who makes the least mistakes. We are correcting the mistake made in 2014. High Izbo! I am asking you to accept the Government's submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u148	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The aim of the proposed solutions is to simplify the management and command system of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as to create conditions and organizational structures operating in the time of peace which are as close to those of the war. They will ensure a uniform division of competences and tasks and a clear separation of command levels in the Polish Army. The proposed amendments to the laws will also adapt the existing Armed Forces Command System to the solutions adopted in NATO. In recent years, changes have taken place in the international environment, which have a direct impact on the security of the Republic of Poland. This has contributed, among other things. to significantly increase spending on our Armed Forces and upgrade equipment. Nevertheless, in order for the modern Armed Forces to function efficiently, it is necessary to construct the chain of command in a way that ensures a clear definition of the roles of the different levels and levels of command. Analysis of the existing Armed Forces control and command system leads to the conclusion that current command system solutions, e.g. The combination of strategic and operational levels in the national chain of command is not compatible with NATO and most of the Alliance countries. Within NATO, the principle is clear separation of these levels. The same solutions should be used in the Polish Armed Forces system. This will ensure efficient and effective cooperation with NATO command structure and allies. The last change in the management and command system, which entered into force in January 2014, basically remodeled the structure and tasks of the control and command bodies of the Polish Armed Forces. Experience, analysis and exercise so far show that there are many problems with the current system. The conclusions, which result from this, indicate the need to strengthen the strategic powers of the Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, in accordance with the command model in force in NATO. According to the proposed solutions, the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, being the highest active soldier and candidate for commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, will have effective instruments to represent the Polish Armed Forces and will be able to agree on all issues concerning the consistency of operational planning in the national and ally dimension. At the same time, the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, being the highest soldier in active military service, will lead the entire Armed Forces. Until the territorial defence forces have achieved their full capacity to act, the commander of the territorial defence forces will be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence, except that, after the completion of this process, WOTs, like the other types of Armed Forces, will be subordinated to the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. Such a solution will allow for an undistorted process of forming this extremely important for the security of the state type of Armed Forces. However, this solution does not exempt the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army from carrying out planning work related to the use of this type of Armed Forces in the event of a crisis or war. In general, in order to ensure continuity of command under extraordinary circumstances, in which the state may find itself, such as war or martial law, until the command of the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces is taken over, this function will be carried out by the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army against all commanders of types of Armed Forces. At the same time, the new wording of the article. 7a will determine that the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army is the highest soldier in the field of active military service. In general, the consequences of the proposed amendment are [[♪ The bell ♪]] Introducing a one-man responsibility for commanding the entire Armed Forces, a gradual reform of the management system...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u150	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u151	...the possibility of undisturbed action in the event of an external threat...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u153	...and adapt the command system of the Armed Forces to NATO command structures. On behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that work be carried out on this bill in committees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u154	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u155	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Defending the Homeland is a common responsibility, therefore all forces in the High House are obliged to discuss and work in order to build the Armed Forces, the Polish Armed Forces. We have rarely had the opportunity to discuss this with the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. It hasn't been there so far. The situation is that you should appear at the National Defence Committee meeting. I am all the more pleased that today we can discuss these important matters for the nation in plenary at the seat of the Sejm of the Republic. You come to the High Chamber with a draft law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The question arises as to whether this is the right order to present a draft law to the High House, while for almost two years the Armed Forces Development Programme has been missing for the years 2017-2026. You are proposing to change the command and command system of the Armed Forces, and you are still behind with this basic planning document, very important for the development of the Armed Forces of our homeland. Is this the right order, Minister? When will this lack be made up? We want to have a very serious discussion about the bill submitted, but if we do not know this basic planning document, the question arises whether these proposals with which you come to the Sejm should be taken seriously. Why do you propose to change the command system that was formed only a few years ago? Since January 2014, there has been a model that has proven itself, which has passed the test. Proof? There is evidence - exercises Anakonda, a multi-national exercise conducted in 2016. Command passed the test. This was a reason to be proud of all of us, because the exercises that were prepared by the commander-in-chief and his subordinate officers were excellent. You propose a solution to change the system, promoting the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, making the chief of staff of the first soldier of the Republic. Why this model? Why don't you go back to solutions that were known even in the interwar period? We want to talk about this, so we will propose that work continue in the subcommittee so that we can analyse the models there. It appears in the explanatory memorandum that you want to adapt the command system to NATO standards. But does such a standard really exist? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has it been worked out? We're gonna ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with you, Minister, that this issue needs to be reformed, but I will also agree with colleagues from the Civic Platform that we should go deeper and examine this in depth. I think it would be worth setting up a subcommittee for that purpose. We have ex-soldiers on the committee, we have ex-ministers, and I'm sure the knowledge these people have would be useful in talking about these issues. Like my previous speaker, I regret that we have not yet had the opportunity to see you at the National Defence Committee meetings. For me, it's a bit of an incomprehensible situation, but maybe you chose this model of management. However, I encourage you to come to these meetings because here we are discussing these key issues, such as the reform of the chain of command, there have just been tenders for patriots, etc., but already on this basic level of the army is a mess, Minister. Here you can mention, for example, uniforms for soldiers who wear old, wiped uniforms because they are missing in the warehouse. In addition, there is a question of gala uniforms that are changed, it is not known why, on almost the same, they differ only slightly in colour. You make soldiers buy in private companies, which actually threatens to buy. That's not enough. Now it turns out these uniforms are completely out of line. The letters to the soldiers have already gone, as far as I know, that the uniforms they bought are not appropriate for the performance of their tasks, do not meet those criteria that were established. We are seeing a mess at these basic levels, which is why I encourage you, Minister, to come to the National Defence Committee's meetings so that we can also talk about these small things. As an MEP, I really hoped that we would discuss this matter in these committees. Usually it's a run-in between the PiS and the Platform. I would like us to actually talk about these problems that are in the Polish Army, talking in substance, not pushing ourselves, whether the predecessors did something right or wrong. Now we're in this situation, we should be talking about the current state, not about what happened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u158	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I received this honor to be able to say a few words on behalf of the Poselski Club a few words about the procedated government bill amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, the printing of the Seym no. 2786. I cannot hide that as a graduate of the Higher School of the Armed Forces in Wrocław, I was a military commander of the company, the subject of defence and the widely understood Armed Forces. The bill proposed by the Government of Law and Justice has a very important flaw, which needs to be mentioned now, at the very beginning of its discussion. To show this problem, I will use the words of Vegetius, a Roman writer and historian from the 4th century of our era, who, based on the words of another Roman historian Titus Livius, said: si vis pacem, para bellum, which in the translation into Polish means: if you want peace, get ready for war. The Latin proverb I quote I would like to treat as a model, referring to the situation in the Polish army in recent years. We are therefore asking ourselves how we are to prepare for war, since you are still taking legislative action in the form of an amendment to the Armed Forces. How are we supposed to achieve relative stability and certainty that the policies created by politicians, soldiers and their leaders in the structure, strategies and other actions will not be lost from week to week because the government will want to revise the bill again? This was the case with the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. Minister! Let me remind you that since the beginning of the state of government this law has been Updated 10 times. It's total legislative diarrhea. You treat an army like a stepmother, you don't let it stabilize you, you just keep making changes that affect our Armed Forces. That's too much. Both the defence strategy and the military structure should remain unchanged, and if they were to be changed, it would be wise, appropriate to the times, situations, measures. The proverbial preparation for the war in your issue is just another hundred pages resulting in changes in the law within the defence. Looking at the bill, it should be noted that the wording of the article is changing. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence. The commander of the WOT is to be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence until he is fully capable of acting. There are two questions that I hope I will finally get answers to. Minister Błaszczak showed up, so I can ask him that question. To be honest, one-and-a-half pages of justification for a change within the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence are a little small, given that Minister Błaszczak is to exercise one-man leadership over WOT. I'm waiting for an answer, Minister. Or maybe the Minister will try to implement omnipotence plans in this area, taking e.g. Minister Macierewicz? Another problematic issue is the issue of excluding the head of the General Staff of the Polish Territorial Defence Army from command until they are fully operational. We don't want to create a private army under the direction of Błaszczak. Due to its indispensable military character, WOTs should remain under the command of a soldier at all times, i.e. the Chief of Staff, not the politician, not the Minister. This is the only thing that can ensure the proper management of this entity. The head of the General Staff of the Polish Army should have experience in defence. The 30-day vacathio legis should be extended. It is not about making changes to the law enter into force too quickly, but it is about making the time so defined that it can be prepared to change the legal situation and move smoothly from one rock to another without negative consequences. We express our desire to debate the change of this term. I know there's a force user-force provider rule in the military today. Indeed, such a principle of command exists in the U.S. military. The U.S. military are running a war theatre all over the globe, so this command system, so to speak, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think so. There's an exam. We're ready to debate. We are in favour of directing this project to the subcommittee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u161	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of Defence and the Act on the universal obligation of defence. Ladies and gentlemen! Security - that word is changed by PiS politicians by all cases. On appeals, capstrzyki, on the occasion of state ceremonies or finally on the parade on the occasion of the Holy Polish Army. Only that the words do not follow the actions, and if they are already going, they are those which without a shadow of a doubt can be called dismantling the Polish defence potential. I understand that PiS politicians like parades, I think they like a song, otherwise beautiful: We, the first staff member. This does not mean, however, that they understand the army, because so far they only deal with personnel matters. Today you reverse the last reform. Maybe it's the right thing to do. But priorities are still in place. It is impossible not to mention that the Air Force Inspector, the most important general among the pilots, was recently dismissed. For what? For giving a reward, a diploma to a journalist who the current government doesn't like. Today the Polish F-16s are already in the middle of resuscitation. Where are the new planes? There isn't. There are no tenders because they've all been canceled. This could cause us to be vulnerable in a few, a dozen years. Worse yet, the lion's share of our fighters is still grounded. After the MiG-29 accident, the planes are on wheels. Who's gonna defend us? Macierevich? WOT? How about dwarfs? Mr. Minister of Defense! Pull yourself together because the army isn't a sandbox or a game in Indians. Where are the helicopters? It doesn't take a week to buy equipment. Minister, you may not know, but helicopters can't be bought in every helicopter store. And not for a dollar. You ridicule us, deprive us of our officers and put us in danger. So far we have not received a reply to the interpellation, how many tenders were for aviation fuel last year. So far I thought maybe it was stupid or maybe sabotage, but today I'm willing, ladies and gentlemen, to believe that you just don't have people, you don't have professionals who could make strategic decisions, and those who were, you were sent back to a civilian. The only purchase made by Minister Macierewicz was the purchase of government aircraft. But more and more often I think that he bought them so quickly that, in case the nation gets pissed off, he has something to run away from Poland. Keep playing like that, gentlemen of the PiS, it will only remain to hope that no one will attack us, because if they attack - hopefully not - it might turn out that you did exactly the same thing with the army as the Sanctification before World War II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Any of the ladies and gentlemen want to ask you another question? If not, I'm closing the list. And the first question is asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with the first stage of changes in the management and command system. And in this context, I would like to ask about a broader vision of how the Ministry of National Defence plans to transfer powers between the General Command and Operations Command and the General Staff. Here it is worth mentioning elements such as those concerning training. The training cells are in the General Staff today. At this moment, of course, this is a planning task, but due to the change of character and the place of the General Staff in the whole system of command and direction, it will have to change, because, for example, in the General Command there are also cells responsible for training. And we find a lot of that kind of analogy. And I wanted to ask you how this process of handing over competences is prepared. The second question concerns how cooperation with NATO forces has already been planned in the reform of the entire management and command system, when it would be necessary to operate in our country. To whom will the Polish forces that will be separated to cooperate with NATO be subordinated? Will the decision-making be maintained here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] our Polish command, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u164	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u165	...will simply be subject to strict...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u167	...to NATO forces, which are now at least...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u168	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u169	...in Brunssum? This is really a strategic issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Art. 1 paragraph 1 of this law states that the Minister of National Defence directs the activities of the Ministry and Armed Forces directly or with the help of inter alia. Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces. If the Territorial Defence Forces are troops and their members are soldiers, then why are they excluded from the structure of the Polish Army and constitute a separate branch? As a military, they should be in the structure of the Polish Army, and they are a separate component directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. Logic indicates that as soldiers, they should be subject to the same procedures as Polish Army soldiers. Military training should be consistent and complementary. There should also be a uniform chain of command for the military. The proposed organisation will make these two formations competitive rather than collaborating with each other. It can be presumed that the Territorial Defence Army is a private army of the Minister of National Defence and that it is part of the pseudo-atriotic trend of political propaganda. If otherwise, please state the reasons why the Territorial Defence Forces are outside the structure of the Polish Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u172	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the past years, the Polish Army has suffered great damage in connection with the activities of PiS, the ruling party. Many experienced, competent commanders were forced to leave. The process of technical modernisation has been halted. No helicopters, no submarines, no submarines. I could calculate equipment that doesn't exist. In connection with the cancellation of the former Minister of National Defence and the appointment of Minister Błaszczak, there was a certain hope that this process would be settled a little bit, that even a little bit of normality would be restored to the functioning of the Armed Forces. You were called in January. After eight months, we have the first opportunity to talk to you about your intentions in terms of the operation of the Armed Forces, the management of these forces, in terms of defence issues in our country. For the media, you are talking about the creation of a new division, that you will recreate the National Defence Fund before the war, and finally you come up with a proposal related to the change of management and command system, and still there are no basic documents that determine the development of the Armed Forces, there is still no military development programme, a technical modernisation plan for the years 2017/12026. The chaos that's been going on for three years is still there. You've called off the Air Force commander in recent years, and today you want to talk to us about how [[♪ The bell ♪]] Command should look like it. Who's gonna serve in this command? There are no officers, no commanders prepared to lead the Armed Forces, because you're still firing those who still... [[Vice-Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much, sir.]] ...the others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We really do declare that we are ready to take a serious approach to the proposed changes. We want to prepare ourselves well, which is why I will ask again, because in the justification of the bill, but also in the OSR the wording was used, that the purpose of the act is to adapt the existing solutions of the command system by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland to solutions adopted in NATO. Where can we find a description of these Natovsky solutions? I'm asking because, among other things, I'm asking. Former Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army General Mieczysław Gocul believes that every country is free to shape its military structures. He gave an interview in which he formulated the idea that NATO leaves freedom to form a system of leadership and command of armed forces. Once again, I ask you to indicate those Natovsky documents we want to see. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you, Minister, for personally presenting the draft of the amended law, because this highlights the importance the Ministry attaches to this change. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with this bill, there have been really serious problems in the Armed Forces. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of 2014 as a result of this law, which violates the principle of force user - force provider, which is one of the most important principles of command among allies, the Americans have withdrawn from cooperation in the field of training special forces. It was even called on to do so - I send back - a special meeting of the National Defence Committee, where documents were presented to us. This proves how urgent it is to change this bill. This cooperation was maintained only thanks to Putin's war in Crimea and therefore the Americans withdrew from this broken agreement. As a result, our forces, our special forces, could continue to benefit from experience, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Special Forces resources of the United States and cooperation with these troops. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my earlier statement, I paid attention to the matter of uniforms, and I forgot about a mega-curious case that should actually be handled by snapping a finger. I don't know why, it doesn't happen. I've asked a lot of questions about this. MON's standing on a hard line that can't be done. I'm telling you what's going on. Let me give you an example of two candidates for officers. One, Jasz Kowalski, is out of cosmetology studies, let's say, has no experience in the military. The second, senior private, has had ten years of experience, three missions, English, of course also higher education in the field of security. Guess who's got a better chance of becoming an officer in the Polish Army. The first one, because for 150 seats as part of the MON officer training, only 15 are allocated to the seniors. Explain to me what the point of doing this is. Why are you restricting the ability to promote soldiers? I'm not even saying they're on preferred terms, but let them stand in one race with civilians and let the officer get better, not the one who has an uncle general. I'm asking you to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u180	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Buczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of which, I have a question about the proposed bill. We know that in May Ub. A strategic defence review was completed and a very important document of the Ministry of National Defence was produced after this review: report. It also contains conclusions, recommendations concerning the command system, command of the Armed Forces. I have a question about the proposed bill. How do the proposals set out in this Act take into account, comply with proposals and recommendations resulting from the strategic defence review carried out last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of National Defence... [[It's me, Marshal.]] Oh, I'm sorry, but you're still an MP. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u183	Thank you, Marshal, for being kind to take this into account. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Two years ago, we were dealing with exercises called Anaconda. As we know, the military, I'm talking about soldiers, has stood up to the task. On the other hand, I would also like to ask about the resulting international context, geopolitical situation and progress of NATO on the eastern flank relations of the Polish Army with NATO in the context of changes in the system of command and direction of the Armed Forces. I am referring to the role and functions of the Chief of Staff, including in terms of the General Commander for the time of peace and the Operations Commander for the time of crisis. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Minister of National Defense, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We already have the first success together - there was no motion to reject the bill at first reading. [[Applause]] [[We're here to discuss.]] I'm glad for that, because that means that maybe a total opposition like this won't be a total opposition... [[But nothing's changed with you.]] ...as far as national defense matters are concerned, although after you speak, you may have doubts. Well, we'll see. The first step was taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about three points. Some of you, most of you, have been late for this debate, and I will speak again about them. My three goals, as Minister of National Defence, are as follows: firstly, the Polish Army must be more numerous, secondly, the Polish Army must be equipped with modern equipment, thirdly, it must be firmly embedded in the structures of the North Atlantic Alliance. And I, ladies and gentlemen, am doing this. I don't promise. I do. The 4th division, the new division I've set up. It's not like I promise, I say I will. I already have, ladies and gentlemen. I already did. There were questions. Allow me not to refer to these demagogical ones, because it is a waste of your time, but to these substantive ones, of course. Mrs Siarkowska spoke about training. The Commissioner has just mentioned evidence that the training process is fragmented in the General Staff cells, in the General Command cells of the types of Armed Forces. It doesn't make sense, it's just not practical. In this connection, the amendment I have tabled to the High House is also aimed at harmonising the training system and, above all, at harmonising the responsibilities. Command must be clear in the military. If command is broken into several parts, then this army will have no benefit and historical examples show it, it can be multiplied. So this system has to be consistent. That is why there is a proposal that I have made to the High House. The decision-making of the Polish command - of course, yes. The preserved decision-making of the Polish command. I'm gonna talk about two more aspects. First of all, that we are trying to ensure that the Polish commanders are more strongly represented in NATO structures. This is also important because there are not enough Polish commanders in these structures. Yesterday I introduced a commander, General Sławomir Wojciechowski's weapon, to the international commander, the Multinational Northwest Corps. This is where the term of office actually ended. Now the term of office was in Poland. The commander, one of the best Polish commanders, took command in the corps. The task which he was given is to strengthen this structure, also as regards Polish soldiers, Polish commanders, to use in building defence capabilities on the eastern NATO flank. But there's another plane. This is our bilateral relationship with the United States. I'm leaving for Washington today. I've got meetings with congressmen, senators, politicians from the House of Representatives. I'm gonna talk to you about tightening up these relationships. Of course, the permanent bases of American troops in Poland are our goal. We are on the right track to achieve this goal, and all this consists of ensuring the safety of Poland and Poles. These are actions that lead to this goal. There was a question about the Territorial Defense Army. There's a group of politicians in the High House who don't like the Territorial Defence Army that much. I'm asking you, why? Is it because they envy these people that they spend their spare time serving Poland to serve our homeland to strengthen our country's defence capabilities? If you are jealous, please report. Perhaps you'll be soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. These are people who, once again, devote some of their spare time to serving Poland. This is undoubtedly a great value. On the other hand, it is my job to ensure that the process of forming the Territorial Defence Army is a success. At the end of this trial, the Territorial Defence Army will be in charge of the Chief of Staff, only this process must, of course, be completed. There was a question about the equipment. It takes years to process hardware purchases. One could thus say that there would be no problem with the Polish Navy if you, Mr President, were Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, the transactions were carried out. Today we'd be picking up, for example. Submarines... [[Because you can't do anything on your own.]] ...or maybe we could already pick it up from the factories, from the Polish shipyards. [[But you took the Kormoran.]] Oh, I forgot, it reminded me, after all, that Polish shipyards with PSL were liquidating. So we couldn't pick up corvettes or submarines from Polish shipyards. But if you hadn't abandoned your group, the government of the PO-PSL coalition, the situation would definitely have been different, better. NATO solutions. Because they come from experience. I thought that it was not necessary for the Minister, the Minister, to explain this. Mr Lubczyk has a much shorter parliamentary period, and somehow he understands this issue, or at least his comments from this place showed that he understands this issue. You don't understand these issues. It's okay. I'm sorry. Please prepare carefully for your comments. [[Show me your papers, and we'll get to know each other.]] Uniforms. Yeah, that's obviously the case we're pursuing. I assure you, Mr Szramka, that when it comes to issues concerning... [[You're ordering soldiers... not us.]] ...advanced, we change that. In general, we are changing the admission system for professional military service. We're simplifying this system. The simplification is that one qualification will be carried out and there will be a data bank, a nationwide data bank with free posts in the Polish Army, which will ensure transparency of this process. The conclusions of the SPO are, of course, included in this project. These solutions, which I am presenting to the High House, are also the result of a strategic defence review. The Anaconda is a valuable exercise, and it will continue. At the beginning of my speech, I also referred to the opinion I heard from the American commanders. In Poland, one exercise is organized by one command, the other is organized by another command. So the question is, who should we talk to about the exercise? After the adoption by the High House of this bill, everything will be well known: with the head of the General Staff. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. I just wanted to say that people work for the good of Poland and serve Poland not only in the army. We all do it, working every day, not just the military. [[Applause]] I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform, to take the floor - in the mode of correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, You were just talking about one command, a strong command, so that decisions can be made in one place. To my question, you answered that there are those in the plenary room who don't like the Territorial Defence Army. My question was above all this, and I wanted you to answer why the Territorial Defence Forces are shut down here, for example. the training of Polish Army soldiers. This is important. If there is to be one command, I understand that it should also include the Territorial Defence Army. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u188	Thank you very much, Member. I understand the Minister still wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u189	Indeed, I have the impression that you did not understand. They're not out of training. They're actually training with the O.R. And that's what it's all about, the Territorial Defence Army to support the operations. This is the system we're creating. And thanks to it, the defence capabilities of the Republic of Poland become bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u190	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u191	In the justification of the project you write about the successes associated with the increase in expenditure on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and you are proud to point out the start of their modernisation. And it's about this modernization that I want to ask you, even though this project isn't talking about it directly. However, since this topic is indicated in the justification of the project, I would like to ask and ask for a written reply, full information about the state of modernisation of the Polish Armed Forces, about the actions and their effects, and about the state of fulfillment of all the promises which were made to the public by the previous Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u192	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, contained in print No. 2786, to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws (print No. 2789). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Personal Evidence Act and some other laws aimed at implementing an electronic identity card. The new evidence will be a secure and free electronic communication tool with the administration, health services and commercial operators. The new identity card will, as has been the case so far, confirm the identity and nationality of the holder and entitle him to cross the borders of certain countries. The use of new electronic functionalities of the new identity card will be voluntary and will be a stand-alone decision of each e-proof holder. Electronic proof will be used to authenticate the holder in public administration e-services and to sign electronic documents. It will also allow confirmation of the identity card holder's presence in external IT systems, including in particular health systems. E-proof will also allow the use of automatic gates at airports in the European Union. This document will also include a space to include a qualified electronic signature certificate in accordance with EU law. The promotion of the functionality of electronic identity cards should improve processes, especially in the state and local authorities, improve the service of the citizen while improving the security of these services. The popularization of e-services will in turn translate into a lower burden on the office and efficiency of proceding. Using the functionality of confirmation of presence, among others. in confirming the reception of medical services, it will in turn contribute to the sealing of the health care system, which will translate into savings on other benefits carried out in this area. It is planned that all personal evidence will be provided with a certificate of confirmation of presence, while the certificate for identification and authentication will be provided in personal evidence of persons with full legal capacity and persons with limited capacity to do so. At the same time, activation of the certificate of identification and authentication will not be mandatory. Uninterested persons will not be forced to use this functionality while maintaining the possibility to run it at any time, at their own will. The personal signature certificate shall be included in the personal evidence of those persons who have the full capacity to act and when submitting an application for an identity card they shall consent to the inclusion of that certificate. This will also apply to the personal evidence of minors who, during the period of validity of the identity card, end the 18th year of age if their representative consents, of course. The personal signature certificate will therefore be included in the personal ID of those who wish to use this functionality. The use of personal e-signatures by a public entity will have the same effect the signature itself and, in the case of another entity, the same effect shall exist, provided that that entity and the holder of the electronic identity card so agree. A personal signature will be an advanced electronic signature within the meaning of EU law. The draft law, which is submitted, under consideration by the High House, also provides for an institution to suspend, for a maximum of 14 days, certificates placed in a layer of electronic identity card in the event of a temporary loss of control of that document. The suspension of certificates will also result in the suspension of the validity of the identity card and the operations carried out during the suspension period or the cancellation of the certificates will not have legal effect. If within 14 days the holder of the identity card does not revoke the suspension of the certificates, the identity card shall be automatically revoked. At the same time, the proposed rules introduce the possibility of suspending and withdrawing certificates, as well as reporting the loss of identity cards automatically, without the involvement of an official, using a dedicated electronic service for this purpose. The launch of new evidence is planned for March 2019. There will be no need to exchange existing documents. I'd really like it to be accented and sounded. These existing documents shall remain valid until the time limits laid down therein have expired. Those interested in new functionalities will be given the opportunity to apply for a new e-proof free of charge. Poland is one of the few European countries in which no identity card with an electronic layer has yet been issued. The electronic evidence already exists in Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Portugal, Estonia, Finland, France, Spain, Lithuania, Germany, Sweden, Hungary and Italy. This document is most commonly used for identification and authentication and for electronic signature. The electronic functionality is used by adults, most often on a voluntary basis - this is what happens, among others. Spain and Luxembourg. Similar solutions were adopted in the proposed law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project presented is a significant step towards promoting safe electronic communication and allows Poland to keep the funds obtained from the European Union for this purpose. I ask the High House to adhere to the submitted project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position towards the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence, this is print No. 2789. The aim of the bill is to provide every citizen with a secure tool for electronic communication with the administration not only in the general sense, but also with an extension to health care and commercial or commercial entities. Such a tool, as the Minister has just mentioned, is to be a new identity card. It should also be mentioned that Poland is one of the few countries of the European Union in which no identity card has been issued with an electronic layer that will allow safe and even more comprehensive use of the new document. This document will clearly confirm the identity of the citizen, it will also be used to sign, authenticate in e-services of the public administration and to sign electronic documents, and it will allow to confirm the presence at a certain time and place using ICT systems. All these services, as the Minister has just mentioned, will, of course, be possible by agreeing to launch these services. If we do not want some of the services to be inactive, it will not be activated electronically in the evidence layer and this evidence will be used only for selected purposes. The new evidence will have an ICAO application, a travel document with biometric characteristics, i.e. a photo of the face. The new identity card will contain data in an electronic layer, which, together with data known only to the holder of this proof, will allow both authentication in the IT systems where online services are provided and the electronic signature of documents. An electronic signature will be a solution similar to the one already known and used, both in the administration and in the business, a qualified electronic signature, which currently functions partially. The proposed law implements earlier intentions in this area, which have not yet been implemented, to be realized. The implementation of the identity card with an electronic layer was included in the State's IT plan in 2007, which envisaged the introduction of a multi-functional electronic identity document, but unfortunately failed to implement this programme. There are resources for this programme, as the Minister mentioned. In order not to return them, this program needs to be implemented quickly, it needs to be implemented quickly when it comes to biometric evidence. The exchange of existing personal evidence for evidence with an electronic layer will relate to personal evidence with a certain period of validity, i.e. those personal evidence which will be, which will be, by the end of 2028. As the Minister mentioned, it should also be confirmed and specified that the evidence currently being produced will be important evidence, it will not be forced to exchange it, but it will also be possible to request new electronic evidence at the initiative of the applicant. The new identity card will enable: firstly, the identification and authentication of the document holder in the electronic systems, secondly, the submission of an advanced electronic signature, thirdly, the confirmation of the presence of the evidence holder in external electronic systems, particularly the health systems, fourthly, the crossing of borders, as has already been said, with one document within the European Union. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to proceed over this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this stage, the document presented by the Minister seems coherent and clear, so there are no many questions. There's one that's been born many times... Every time we talk about money, they seem big on the one hand, on the other hand - small. It's about grants to local governments, and there's a 2444 grant, as far as I can remember, for one piece of evidence. There is a question from local governments: Do you plan to value this amount every year? What's it gonna look like, is this gonna be a stiff amount for the next 10 years? Service costs, especially personnel costs, working in local governments, are increasing considerably, and in recent years they have been growing faster. There is also a question raised by users who would like to be clear, using such evidence, which will be in the event of a loss of control over such evidence. This document in the hands of the wrong person is a very dangerous tool. We need to deactivate him as soon as possible. How is that person gonna confirm his identity when she wants to deactivate that evidence? Will it be possible to block this evidence immediately over the Internet if you do not have this proof and proof that you are the rightful owner of this proof? It is so quick because Mr Wójcik said that he has many questions and has to fit in 5 minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u198	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At this stage, I think there is no point in asking too many questions, because I am sure that such a discussion will be at the subcommittee meeting, but what is worth mentioning. Surely, as a club, we will support all the changes that make it easier for citizens to handle things online, and this is one of them too. It is worth noting that similar solutions were originally introduced into the Personal Evidence Act in 2010. At that time, this solution was also a little more complicated, because there was still a certificate of limited identification. In the course of the work and the attempt to implement these solutions, which we wrote down in the Act at that time, it turned out that it would be simply very expensive technologies, which is why at the end of 2012 it was decided to remove this electronic layer from the Personal Evidence Act, while in the following years it focused mainly on the integration of public registers, which was also the basic element of the pl.ID project, which was co-financed by the European Commission. As far as the Commission's work on the project is concerned, we are aware of the pace at which the work will actually be carried out, as we all know that these new identity cards must be issued in March next year. We will certainly pay attention to procedural issues relating to the provision of adequate protection to citizens in the case where they have evidence with an electronic layer, and this evidence, for example. He'd fall into the wrong hands. The point is, as Mr Raniewicz said, that these procedures should be very clear and that this electronic layer could be excluded from the evidence very quickly. I would also like to refer to this proposal which the Minister has put forward here, because that would be something that we would have proposed if it had not been in the law. The Minister mentioned that the people who would like... that the evidence would be exchanged gradually, with the end of the period for which it was issued, which is, of course, reasonable. It is very important that those who wish to use e-government services can apply for such evidence with an electronic layer and receive this evidence. I am glad that this solution has been introduced into the bill. Let me remind you that since 2010, the principle is that evidence is issued free of charge, that this is a basic identity document. I am pleased that you have maintained this principle in the case of evidence with an electronic layer. I'm also glad that there's a recipe that says that evidence can be replaced, because then there won't be such fiction that someone will come to the office and say that they've lost evidence, and they really want to replace it just for a new one. I'm glad you've predicted this. That's it, thank you for the time being, but I'm counting on the committee work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to briefly present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No. 2789. This was briefly recalled, but once again I would like to remind you what this bill is really about. According to the legislator, the aim of the Act is to provide every citizen with a secure electronic communication tool that will clearly and undeniably confirm his identity and serve, among others. for authentication in public administration e-services and for signing electronic documents. This is indeed an important thing in the world, which is now moving more and more online, because most of the operations we do in this area. An electronic signature will be a solution similar to the one already known and used both in the administration and in the business of qualified electronic signature. This popularisation of the new service is intended to increase the safety of citizens and reduce the burden on authorities. Poland is indeed one of the few European countries in which such evidence has not yet been issued with an electronic layer, and the proposed solutions already exist in many European countries or, say, the European Union. New evidence is intended to enable, among others, identification, authentication of the document holder in external electronic systems, submission of advanced electronic signature under electronic declaration of will or crossing borders by automatic gateways at European Union airports. The recommended project is part of an action plan to strengthen the European response to criminal offences against document claims, to enhance the security of travel documents against abuse and counterfeiting of national identity cards issued by Member States and to residence documents issued to European Union citizens residing in another Member State. New evidence is to be here, as we have heard, introduced in 2019. The exchange of existing personal evidence for evidence with an electronic layer will relate to personal evidence within a certain period of validity and this circulation is due to end by the end of 2028. Now a few of my comments. I generally have an aversion to everything, to these kinds of documents. The unnecessary document I have here is a senseless interference of the state for me, because we have many countries in the world that work perfectly without ID. I am always very afraid of a country that cannot live with its citizens without personal evidence, without any kind of authority, without reporting, without everything that is really an interference in our personal freedom and following us. These electronic evidences also really meet the European Union's condition, but they are very good at what we have been adopting for some time, what we have adopted in the case of the registration and purchase of air tickets and all other elements that allow for the full surveillance of life in a virtual world followed by the European Union as a whole. Of course we will not be against this solution, because since we already have all this unnecessary bureaucratic baggage, let it be really functional, let it at least give these citizens something in its sphere, because for now we have such a cool plastic thing, we have to exchange it, and in fact in life I do not really need it especially if you just and exclusively want to communicate with me in a normal way. But since bureaucracy cannot live without it, and ours and Europeans, we will not oppose it, because at least thanks to this exchange it will be more functional and will make life easier in some areas. So that we will proceed on this, but personally, as I say, I feel better and safer in the woods than in the state that keeps me under surveillance every step of the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No. 2789. Poland is one of the last countries that has not put an electronic layer on identity cards, identity cards on a good case. Indeed, such plans were in the years 2007 and 2010. The IT plan of the state in these years also included the introduction of this document, but here Mr Wójcik said that at that time because of the huge costs This whole operation has been discontinued. At the moment, these systems are actually much cheaper, so it can be assumed that the State will pay less for this. As far as the introduction of this evidence with an electronic layer is concerned, I will not hide the fact that in the age of the Internet many activities are carried out through the network, and therefore the possession of a document which identifies a person is as necessary and not only when it comes to online shopping but also access to certain services, especially e-government is already quite common at the moment, so this identity card will actually make it easier for the citizen to access those things that are covered by e-government. As far as the possibility of this evidence is concerned, of course, it is also a matter of being treated as an electronic signature so that it can be signed under electronic documents by means of this proof. And I think the introduction of this evidence will also safeguard our presence on the Internet, especially in a situation where we are shopping more and more. The new evidence will have an ICAO application, so-called. A photo of a face with a biometric feature. This solution, which is common in most European countries and not only, is very beneficial due to the faster movement of citizens, because with this identity card, with this biometric function we will be able to pass faster through the electronic gates that are at airports, therefore this process of leaving the airport and the travel time will definitely shorten. The exchange of personal evidence is to start in March 2019 and is to be carried out for the next 10 years. This is indeed a long time. I hope this will be done as soon as possible. On the other hand, it is possible to argue with Mr Józwiak. I will not hide that I too want the least of you in the life of a citizen. The point is, however, that in the Schengen area we need a document that allows us to move. In most countries where there's no I.D., there's passports. Since some people, some Poles, move only around the Schengen area, do not even need a passport. It's a quid pro quo. Here we can argue whether a passport would not be a better option, but there are similar things there. As far as the whole bill is concerned, the Modern Club will, of course, be in favour of sending it to the committee for further work. We won't have any reservations here at this stage. On the other hand, I will not hide the fact that, in view of what Mr Józwiak has said, it is necessary to consider, because access to information that can be obtained by tracking these activities with personal evidence can make it possible to actually monitor citizens very deeply. Therefore, I would also like to know what the relationship between the base that will be available and the services that can draw information from this database, where I was, what I bought, what I signed, where my electronic signature came and where it came from. I therefore believe that careful attention should be paid to ensuring that citizens are protected from excessive interference, above all by the services. At the moment, we have some laws that have been introduced, but which greatly extend the scope of interference, surveillance of citizens by the services. I hope that this bill and these I.D.s will not contribute to the fact that we will increase even more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the possibility of surveillance of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u205	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats a position towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. At first glance, it can be said that the proposal submitted to the High House does not raise the question. It is intended to contribute to wider and faster access for citizens to public administration, health services, as well as widely understood commercial services. For the provider of such a service, it is often the lack of direct contact with the provider, which results from the doubts about the declared identity and age of the person to whom the service is to be provided. The Panaceum for these problems has become two tools: authentication mechanisms and an electronic signature. The document described in the bill is intended to unambiguously and undeniably confirm the identity of the citizen, to authenticate in e-services of public administration and to sign electronic documents, and to allow to confirm the presence at a specific place and time using ICT systems. A new identity card, as the government plans, will have an ICAO application, i.e. travel document with biometric features of a facial image. The new model of identity card will include data in the electronic layer, which, together with data known only to the holder of this proof, will allow both to authenticate it in the ICT systems where online services are provided and, above all, to provide electronic documents with an electronic signature. A signature called a personal signature will constitute an advanced electronic signature within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council or of the eIDAS Regulation and can be submitted without the need for access to the Internet. The certificate of confirmation of the presence or receipt of medical services by electronic means will contribute to the sealing of the health care system, which will allow savings to be made, for example, for other benefits. The Polish party informed the European Commission at the end of 2015 about the planned continuation of the project of the ID system. The proposed law does not change the issue of personal evidence. It merely limits itself to regulating issues related to functionality in the layer of electronic identity card. The draft law provides for the regulation of the issue of exchange and cancellation of identity cards, including e.g. the loss of its validity. The government provides for a special mode when one of the certificates is blocked, e.g. when the holder of the identity card has lost the unlocking code or the personal electronic signature certificate is no longer valid. The source of financing of personal evidence with an electronic layer is the state budget. The evaluation of project results will be carried out by the Interministerial Steering Committee on e-Project with the assumption that at least 5 million electronic evidence will be released by the end of 2021. High Izbo! At this point, the comments and views expressed by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection must not be ignored, and this is the issue of replacing the PESEL number with any other identifier, which would be a gigantic undertaking, resulting in the reconstruction of all functioning systems. The PESEL number shall be the identification number of the citizen referred to in the implementing rules of the eIDAS Regulation and shall comply with the GDPR. My club is not opposed to the adoption of an amendment to the law, but, given the wide application of its subject matter and the need for correlation with the rules already in force, we consider it necessary to subject the matter to a detailed analysis, so that - which is often the case - we do not adopt the Bubble Act with its negative consequences for the citizen as well as for other entities with which the citizen will meet on a daily basis. My club supports the motion to refer the project to further work on the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Anyone else want to come up for a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We know that the most important thing about making life easier for citizens is, first and foremost, the protection of health. There were several approaches to the preparation of medical records, patient records. Therefore, I have a question: What will be the correlation between the identity card and the electronic layer with health data? I ask because, for a good cause, more information will be included in this second sphere than in the basic one, because there will be only personal data here, while here will be all information about the health status, the illness, visits to doctors or hospital, etc. Indeed, this will be a great deal of information. The question is this: Is this cooperation with the institutions responsible for implementing this system in health care continued and what will it be like to interact with these two systems if they enter into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u208	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I regret, first of all, before I ask a question, that the project has not been also aimed at working in the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies, which here naturally fits as a body that is protecting the organisational conduct of this process, and where we have people who know each other from the technical point of view of this process. I, knowing that unfortunately you will not address this project to us, allowed me to formulate two interpellations: one to the Ministry of Digitalization, the other to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, where I put a number of questions just organized and technical. I hope I won't have to wait a whole month and you'll want to answer these questions first. Here, due to time, I cannot bring up these questions, but they focus on the risk of failure by the government party to meet the deadline of introduction, at least in the first stage, of the project in March next year. Is it true, Minister, that if this were to happen, we are in danger of being punished with the refund of PLN 147 million that we have taken on this project from the European Union? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u211	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Life goes on and on. Today, evidence with an electronic layer will be introduced, but I think it is worth considering when in Poland we will introduce an application that will completely replace the proof. The question is whether such conceptual work is already underway in the Ministry. If so, what schedule are you predicting and when we can really expect that such an application will be downloaded and we will be able to use, instead of this plastic document, something that will be just an electronic layer, an IT layer completely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u212	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first thing is a voluntary rule. By listing the European countries that benefit from this principle, you also mentioned those countries that do not benefit. I would like to ask if you have learned from experience, how to say this, one segment of countries and the other in the work on this whole space, because, apart from, of course, the issue of escaping most of our society from what someone once called a civilization voice, it would be good to point out that it would be a single identification card, which would have the same characteristics, for example. a driving licence in the United States, i.e. a larger pool of access to specific services, if you can say so. I share my predecessor's view that technology is moving forward from day to day, and therefore the question is: How much do you define the viability of this solution today in technological aspects? Because, as my predecessor has said, at the moment, I do not know whether you know about this, there is a possibility, if you have an electronic signature, an electronic identity card, and therefore, as it seems, in a short time, a driver's license and other things that are necessary for you in your everyday life. However, first of all, I would like to refer to the experience of those countries which already benefit from this concept, especially in the context of these questions which have been raised here and which, it seems, are very legitimate, concerning the defence of the individual against the system. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u215	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about this limit date of 31 March 2019 in which we have to fit in and start issuing personal evidence with an electronic layer. I do not want to mention the risks in the event that this project is not completed within the deadline set or, worse still, possibly not implemented, because then, as we know, we will have to reimburse ineligible expenditure. That is why I have a question and a request that we can confirm responsibly that we are prepared for this date, March next year, to be the real date in which we will begin to issue this new type of personal evidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u216	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u217	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The identity card in the cell was one of the flagship digitalization promises that was made by the current PiS government. Since last year on the e-documents project, which was intended to include e.g. ID cards in cells were issued 3 million PLN, but a month ago we received information that the Ministry was withdrawing from this project. It turned out that it was not very popular and despite 3 million PLN spent it was used, only 600 times logged in to this system, which means that one login cost 5.5 thousand. zł. It's more like an e-failure instead of an e-document, that's what you call it. And now the fundamental question is, will the government continue to work to facilitate, in addition to this e-proof, i.e. the identity card with a digital layer, to enable citizens to have personal evidence in their cells? They are of course important not only in the context of contact between citizens - public administration, but also in relations with citizens - citizens. If someone goes, for example. To the gym, he wants to identify himself, show his I.D., it could show up on his cell phone. When someone makes a purchase-sale transaction, e.g. He's selling a car, and it could also show I.D., of course, to make that data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] possible to write. How, Minister, can you imagine working on a personal ID on a cell phone that will complement this e-proof? This is very important, I think this is the challenge of the 21st century and we should do everything we can to enable Poles to use this type of solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this short question, quite practical, concerning the use of this new proof abroad, in the Schengen area, because I understand that this proof will continue to be a kind of passport for the Schengen area. There is a question of reading the data that is contained in this proof. Will there be any exchange of data between countries, for example, to authenticate this evidence or to determine the extent of access to those data that are in this electronic layer? Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For years, during the discussion of personal evidence, a request has been made to include information to identify the blood type of the person who has such a document on the identity card sheet. Putting this on the blank was not a particularly happy solution, but the introduction of an electronic layer was a kind of hope for those who proposed this solution. The question is therefore: Will this type of information be possible in this electronic layer? I would also like to ask you one more thing, because in order for a citizen to be able to handle an administrative matter over the Internet, it is necessary to be able to authenticate it, but also to have a certain service provided by the administration so that the citizen can actually do so not only in the office but also remotely. According to the justification, local authorities are already after the interconnection of registers prepared to make this evidence with an electronic layer... to identify the citizen in this way as well. On the other hand, you have also introduced a number of changes in the laws amending this law concerning other areas of life as well. And the question is: Will the whole public administration be ready to handle things next year, or do you foresee any periods in which it will be necessary to adapt administrations of different types to the possibility of dealing with things online? Do you foresee any subsidies for the public administration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So she can provide this functionality to the citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all Members very much for their comments and observations, for their extremely valuable and valuable statements. Let me briefly refer to those fundamentals as well as the doubts that you have presented in the course of the discussion. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz asked about the question of financing the task of government administration, which will be carried out by local government units. We have planned for a 10-year period of this law to increase the budget of voivodships in part 85 - this is the part from which tasks commissioned from government administration to local government units are financed - an amount of 27 330 thousand. In our view, this is the amount that will fully meet the budgetary needs of local government units, the more that the research that we have carried out shows that it will not be more time-consuming to issue such evidence. than the issue of a traditional proof. This procedure will be de facto different because you will need to assign a PIN number using the encoding device. And this is the one and only element that on the citizen's side will be a certain addition to the existing legal situation. Mr Raniewicz also asked about security issues in the event of the loss of this document, i.e. physical loss of identity card. As I said in this first part of the speech, it will be possible to reserve it for a period of 14 days in the electronic system. On the other hand, any person who wishes to invalidate the evidence or to reserve its electronic layer will be able to do so via the Internet, the electronic system, using the PIN number, which in turn will be given when issuing the evidence, and will also be able to do so personally or by a proxy at the municipal office. Mr Raniewicz also asked about the application issues. Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, this digitisation of the functioning of social, economic life requires that we move more and more services to the electronic sphere, so that the administration - and the government, and the local government - is increasingly open and realized for the benefit of citizens, in favour of the so-called. end-users, those services in a digitised form. We are working together with the Ministry of Digitalization to create maintenance applications that citizens will be able to use. But in order for us to do this, first this law, which is submitted to the High House for consideration, has to be adopted, is the basis for further action. Mr Marek Wójcik asked about the safety of using proof. As I said, it is possible to reserve it for the first 14 days, and later - total deactivation in different channels and personally, and by proxy, and through the electronic system. I am pleased that the High Chamber, the Members of the House, has been open to this main request, the foundation of the bill, namely free of charge, and the exchangeability of personal evidence. Evidence will be made available free of charge to all citizens, including when a person decides to exchange his current identity card for this already modern e-proof. Mr Wójcik also pointed out the need to include in this layer and material and electronic proof of personal information about the citizen's blood group. This is, of course, an idea worthy of consideration, but we must bear in mind the fact that a system would first have to be created that would collect such data. A separate legislative decision would be needed in this respect, which would allow the Minister of Health to take and store such information. It would be a little difficult, however, to appreciate the attention of the Member, to enter the blood type on the basis of the citizen's statement. You can forget, you can not remember, and in a situation of health or life threat such information means a great deal, misusing could cause serious difficulties. Mr Bartosz Józwiak and Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz spoke very strongly about the right to privacy. The High Sejm, it is clear that our ambition, all of us, and the government side, and the parliamentary side, is to create a good law that will not be disproportionately or inappropriately interfering with the right to citizens' privacy. And this bill was thus created. Any possible sharing of information from the PESEL register, from the Register of Personal Evidence, will take place under the existing rules, i.e. under the control of the relevant supervisory authorities, as well as by the court, depending on the categories of data made available and the purpose of making them available. I would like to make it very clear that this project, which has been addressed to the High House, does not result in a qualitative change as regards the access of individual eligible entities, including courts, prosecutors, special services, to information that will be included in the system containing personal evidence data. Mr Meysztowicz also pointed to the functionality that we wanted very much. Namely, on the basis of this new e-proof, our citizens, Poles, will be able to continue to travel within the Schengen area, using the identity card itself, and this novelty and this great functionality is the possibility of using ABC gates, i.e. gates that enable automatic identification of a person without having to stand in queues. More and more countries decide to do so and use this functionality. We would also like Poles not to have to stand in line at other airports or border crossings, but to use ABC gates. Therefore, this evidence will contain data that are subject to ICAO standard. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski pointed out this remark, which sounds here and is notified by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. This is not a new remark. It concerns the use of the PESEL number and the significant dissemination of this number. At the moment, it appears that such a basic identification number should remain the PESEL number. If we decided to identify citizens through other identifiers, other markings, this would be equivalent to the need to build new systems that are very expensive. I don't think that would be entirely appropriate at this stage at this point. Mr Paweł Pudłowski asked about the guarantee of implementation within the deadline of this EU commitment. I would like to assure you, Mr President and the High House, that this deadline, which is set out in the bill, will be respected if the High House wishes to bend over this project and, if possible, proceed immediately, and will not have to reimburse the European Commission. We on the government side, i.e. a certain administrative structure, an IT structure, are prepared for this. Here I wanted to appreciate very good cooperation with the Ministry of Digitalization, which the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration in this work actively supports. Mr Piotr Pyzik asked about a certain internationalisation of the identity card and a certain durability of this project, that is, a philosophy based on the use of e-proof. The data we have shows that for at least 20 years it will be an IT tool that citizens of other European Union countries will be able to use freely. And from the point of view of the technological process, its progress in computerization is a tool that for 20 years should allow citizens to communicate conveniently, comfortably with government, local government, banks, institutions of economic life. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska also expressed her concern about the timely implementation of the EU commitment. I would like to assure you once again that this will be achieved. I encourage you to cooperate fairly and ask for it. I am convinced that together we will be able to carry out this project immediately. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka asked a question about continuing to work on this e-document, mapping the material evidence in the telephone application. This is a question that should de facto sound to the Minister of Digitization, who hosts the work. It's in this area. My knowledge is that the Minister of Digitization will continue to work on this application or this e-document. It also welcomes the fact that citizens will be able to choose between material evidence, what each of us has in plastic form in its pocket, evidence with electronic layer, whose project is submitted to the High House as well as an e-document that will not have such functionalities as e-proof. However, we want to leave citizens with full freedom, freedom to choose which means of identification they want to use. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski asked about the possibility of using e-proof abroad. We need to distinguish two points. Firstly, e-proof will continue to serve as a document confirming identity as well as citizenship. And this is the document on which our citizens will be able to travel inside the Schengen area without having to have a passport. In the course of the discussion, there was also an argument that we should eliminate personal evidence and, in return, allow citizens to have a passport. This is an idea, only that we have to take into account one fact: issuing an identity card is free of charge and the Treasury can afford it, while issuing a passport is a payment, so the transition to passports would be an additional burden for the state budget, because then they would have to be made free and widely accessible to citizens. I will return to Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski's question. Proof with an electronic layer shall, in principle, be the document certifying and the identity and nationality of the person concerned. In the context of the regulation contained in the Schengen Code, this is a sufficient travel document which allows for crossing borders within the Schengen area. On the other hand, with regard to access to administrative functionality via an electronic layer of identity card, each country has its own databases and does not provide for the possibility of using a foreign identity card. In other words, the Polish citizen will be able to authenticate his identity with his signature, possibly with his electronic signature. These are services that are provided by the Polish government, local government or institutions of economic life, such as: banks and companies. On the other hand, there is one extremely important feature that the Member has pointed out. This is an ICAO standard, which is included in the new identity card, in e-Professor. Indeed, biometric data will be encrypted there, but they are encrypted according to ICAO International Standard and thus the person will be able to cross borders using ABC gateways, so this functionality is actually preserved. If you wish to discuss it, of course we are at your disposal, if the Sejm so decides in the course of further work on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. In the correction procedure, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you so much for your answer. One small correction, because I mentioned blood-type issues, because this is not a parliamentary postulate but rather a social one, which often comes back in discussions about evidence. I am convinced that even if such a discussion takes place in the Sejm, this work will be quick, it will come back anyway. On the other hand, I am aware that there is no place on the I.D. sheet to put information about the blood group, that it is a little more complicated, it would certainly require e.g. information on diagnostic tests, when these tests were done, etc. I'm sure a blank isn't the place for that. On the other hand, it may be worth considering whether creating an electronic layer, creating a certain place in this electronic layer, so that - perhaps in the future - this information could be introduced into this electronic layer. On the other hand, I agree with the Minister that this requires the creation of a system, and it cannot be that someone at the window will speak from the memory of the blood type, because these are far more complex and certainly requiring prior examination. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and provide some information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u226	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws, contained in print No. 2789, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2018 (the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union) (print No 2728) together with the position of the Commission for European Union Affairs (print No 2730). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Konrad Szymański to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Bulgarian Presidency, like all other presidencies, has, at least so far, grouped the issues on which it wanted to place the greatest emphasis, here in four thematic blocks, i.e. economic growth and social cohesion, the European perspective for the Western Balkans, security and stability, and the digital economy and skills of the future. As far as the first block is concerned, i.e. economic growth and social cohesion, it is certainly the most important event that the European Commission announces the initial drafts of the multiannual financial framework, which actually focus all the essential elements of the political agenda, as they confirm the importance of the declared policy objectives simply by allocating money, which is probably the most tangible aspect of the policy. It should be noted that, of course, the Presidency did not play a key role in this matter, and the first violin is played by the European Commission, the planning actions for the first steps, opening up a very difficult negotiation process, were taken by the Bulgarian Presidency. Poland has consistently repeated and will reiterate that without taking into account the new objectives that are set before the European Union, in particular in terms of security and immigration, we cannot agree that they are financed by simple transfers of large sums of money from treaty policies, policies which have proven their usefulness to the European Union in a way that has proven their effectiveness when building one of the key objectives of European integration, social and economic convergence. The cuts proposed by the European Commission, in particular in the second package of proposals, are completely disproportionate. It is clear that such serious new objectives set before the European Union cannot be achieved by means of a budget that, de facto, when comparing fixed prices and comparing the really timely financial perspective, is simply a smaller budget. There is no public institution capable of achieving ambitious new objectives with an even smaller budget. The European Union is no exception in this respect. Poland was able to obtain the views of many Member States, not only from Central Europe, in order to promote its position for months and years before this project was announced, in the area of defence of the budgetary importance of cohesion policy and the defence of the sense of the common agricultural policy. Just after the proposals were made, we have successfully rebuilt a group of cohesion friends, which has always played an important role in the budgetary negotiations to date in promoting the sense of funding for cohesion policy in the next financial framework. A second initiative of a very important nature for growth and social cohesion, particularly in the euro area, where we are facing the most serious problems, but this is of course important for the whole common market, including for countries outside the euro area, has been trying to reform economic and monetary union. The Bulgarian Presidency has proposed a pragmatic approach, focusing firstly on completing the Banking Union, which seems obvious given the tone of the debate that followed the European Union after the crisis, after the first phase of the debt crisis, and strengthening the European Stability Mechanism. Poland strongly supports all measures aimed at improving the situation in the euro area. This is our key trading partner. The only thing we pay attention to in all the work that is going on around this topic is to remain open and, above all, the integrity of the common market, so that the necessary reform of the Economic and Monetary Union does not lead to divisions in the common market, which, by the way, is not complete, which is still subject to protectionist pressures today, which I will talk about at the end of my information. Second point, second chapter This is a European perspective for the Western Balkans. For obvious reasons, i.e. Bulgaria has decided to place a very serious emphasis on the European Union's presence in the Western Balkans region. It was a very good, good initiative. Europe has certainly lost, in particular in terms of security, but also in other areas, through its passiveness, its inability to take action in the Western Balkans region. Policy hates vacuums, especially in Europe. Wherever Europe withdraws, other players are entering, often with competitive objectives, if not hostile to the European Union. It is no different in the Western Balkans. The activation of the European Union in the area of the Western Balkans is certainly one of the most important achievements of the Bulgarian Presidency, as it was at that time that the most ambitious document on this issue, namely the European Commission's communication, was still presented at that time with important political declarations by President Juncker on this issue, and at that time it was finally possible to reach the European Union-Western Balkans Summit, which has been held at such a high level for the first time in 15 years, at the level of Heads of Government and Heads of State. This was translated into the conclusions of the General Affairs Council, which were adopted at the end of June, at the end of the Bulgarian Presidency. These conclusions, in our view, could have been much more ambitious, could have been more forward-looking, but the fact that they were adopted after a very negative experience more than a year ago is a success. The European Union has restored a certain capacity to speak in concrete terms with a view to enlargement, in this context in particular to Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for which a perspective has been outlined on the possibility of opening accession negotiations in 2019. Poland has been active in this region of Europe in recent months by intensifying bilateral visits, strengthening political dialogue. I will only mention the visits of Minister Chaputovich to Skopje, Belgrade and Tirana. The Enlargement Academy is one of the initiatives of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose purpose is to share our own experiences in the field of enlargement, in the field of accession. It works and is, I think, the subject of growing interest in many capitals in the Western Balkans. Of course, the completion of this process of activating Poland in this region of the world will be the taking over of the Berlin process. In 2019 the Berlin Process will be held in Poznań. This is very important in political terms. This was initiated many years ago to maintain the political presence of the European Union in this region and to open the way for enlargement in this part of Europe. Another thing I would like to say here is security and stability. This is an extremely pressing, politically very crucial dimension of the Union's policy in recent months and years. On the one hand, we have been faced with a persistent patch, a deadlock in the work on the reform of the European asylum system at technical level and at the level of the Justice Council. At the same time, the determination of the Polish government and the resistance of the Polish government to inappropriate and inconclusive solutions based on transnational migration management and refugee movement at the end of the Bulgarian Presidency led to a real breakthrough. The European Council not only revised its temporary expectations regarding the completion of the reform of the asylum system, but also set out very clear guidelines for home affairs ministers on how this new compromise is to be shaped, it is a new opening in the field of asylum policy of the European Union, a policy which has broken a great deal of blood in the EU, including in political terms. Firstly, EU policy in this respect should focus on the distinction between economic migration and the refugee movement. These are completely different legal conditions from the point of view of international law. Humanitarian responsibility towards these two groups is also completely different. Without a clear distinction between one group and the other, EU policies in this area cannot be imagined. It is a policy which would be subject to consensus, which is necessary to reduce the political tensions that are still taking place in the Union in relation to this matter. The second thing is to stop migration. It is clear that the Union's policy on this issue is aimed at halting migration. It was a Polish postulate from the very beginning. From the outset, we have pointed out that Europe - no matter what we think - is unable to accommodate such a large group of people who, for very different reasons, often dramatic, are now outside their home in North Africa and the Middle East. In this context, the objective of EU policy, where the Union can play a positive role, is above all to stop and restore control of migration flows at our borders, in particular southern but also eastern borders. From the point of view of Poland, there is no less important aspect - today it is not dramatic, but one day it can become such - there is also full control and shared responsibility for the durability of the eastern border. This cannot be done without effective cooperation with third countries. That's the design. This perspective has been outlined, suggesting the establishment of land-based platforms for those crossing the sea border, which is the most difficult to control effectively. These platforms are to be set up in consultation with third countries as the most appropriate solution for this. And the last thing I think is the most important thing. The European Council made it clear that all internal solidarity mechanisms must assume the voluntary admission of refugees to the borders of the Member States of the European Union. That's the outline. I am not saying that this is a complete process, but this is an outline of a compromise that allows us to think more calmly about what can happen in the field of migration and asylum policy in the European Union. If we lead to this compromise, I hope that this whole House will be proud of the determination and stubbornness of Polish offices, the Polish government in this matter. They had to endure very much political pressure for years, going from very different directions, also from within, related to ideas that were simply wrong and inefficient. They were not only wrong, they were also ineffective. Another security issue that I wanted to highlight is, of course, the development of European security policy plans, the development of the defence industry. Poland pointed out that any such plans must assume the sustainable development of the defence industry throughout the European Union. This must not lead to the establishment of sustainable oligopolies, an even greater advantage of the main defence industry centres within the European Union. From a political point of view, the most important element of the Polish message - but this is a much broader demand - was, of course, looking for scenarios for the development of security policy, which would be complementary to NATO. The vast majority of countries active in the field of defence policy of the European Union are also a member of NATO. Regardless of what will happen in the Union in the coming years, NATO remains a key dimension of European security, which is why we consider building any construction that does not adhere, which could even be counterproductive from the point of view of NATO's security architecture, to be harmful. We consider it a waste of resources that are not limitless. These resources, particularly in Europe, are still too small. At that time Poland also activated its initiatives on enhanced cooperation in the field of defence policy, so-called. PESCO. Poland today participates in six enhanced cooperation programmes in defence projects. It is primarily about logistical support, military mobility, marine unmanned mine systems, the protection of port and coastal waters, cyber threats and European artillery. The last planned aspect of the Bulgarian Presidency is the work on the digital economy and the skills of the future. In line with Polish expectations, work on the freedom of movement of non-personal data has been deepened. Some progress has been made, although he is still late in relation to what is happening in the world as regards the regulatory environment for the development of advanced 5G telecommunications networks. A lot has been done to plan cooperation in the area of artificial intelligence. However, from a Polish point of view, the most important aspect of this chapter is the uncertain future of the common market. In many sectoral proceedings, we see a continuing wave of protectionism. This protectionism, as a problem of the common market, does not have its origins in Central Europe. It often has its origins in the founding countries of the European Union. This has consequences for legislative work in areas such as the service package, which was originally a very good initiative from the Commission, let us be honest, quite modest for the degree of delay in the service market in the European Union. Nevertheless, he met with a deadlock from the countries representing this wave of protectionism that is present in the European Union. Poland strongly supported and supported the service package. We also support the freight package, which aims to reduce barriers to the movement of goods. A similar tone of discussion took place in the case of very difficult negotiations on posting of workers. The compromise that was achieved in this case was not sufficient to gain the support of the Polish delegation. However, we see important elements of the change, important attempts to meet the central European demands. On the other hand, the very important negotiating achievement of Poland in this matter was to exclude transport and to address the issue of transport, the most pressing aspect in terms of posting of workers, to the deliberations of the Council on the subject. transport. At the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Transport Poland has created a sufficiently strong coalition of 14 countries which today prevent the adoption of solutions that would be detrimental to this industry in Poland and [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Europe, however, the continuing deadlock in this matter shows that something bad is happening in relation to the future of the common market. The last issue in this area is, of course, the fate of the Gas Directive. Here, too, Poland has created a broad coalition of countries which have formulated a compromise that should meet the legitimate expectations of some other countries in terms of the future of this already built gas infrastructure, without eliminating the essential objective. The main objective of this directive is to clarify the European Union's legal order towards new initiatives, new infrastructure investments in the gas field. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]] [[Thank you, Minister.]] The last thing I would like, I am forced, I think, to draw your attention, is of course the first hearing, hearing Poland within the framework of the article. 7.1, which took place at the end of the Presidency, in June. This was an opportunity, for the first time, for a fair discussion about all the details, the retail aspects of justice reform in Poland. This discussion didn't bring any conclusions, but after that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u228	Minister, you're welcome to leave. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes, of course. I would remind you that this is based on the rules that your party passed. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yeah, I'm with the rules. It is very well formulated. These are the last two sentences. This discussion did not bring political conclusions, as we know, it will be moving forward soon, but there is certainly no majority in the General Affairs Council today, which could adopt any negative decisions against Poland. It's because of this House, and I wanted to draw attention to it. Of course, Poland is, as always, ready to give full, factual answers, while stressing that the organisation of justice remains a national competence, is not the competence of the European Union. I would like to thank this House for having succeeded in adopting an important package of judicial reform corrections at the time, because this has significantly strengthened Poland's position in the European arena. Poland's credibility in this case... Thank you very much, Minister. Two sentences were. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...thanks to this House's work... [[The Deputy Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs speaks with the microphone off]] I would like to ask Mrs Isabella Kloc to present the reasons for the draft resolution. [[It was going so well, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, to present a report for the sixth time and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during January-June 2018 chaired by Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Presidency of Bulgaria was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 6 July and 9 July was forwarded to the High House. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared through cooperation between all ministers and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. It's already 29. A half-yearly report by the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from participation in the work of the European Union during the successive periods of the presidency. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print 2728 at its 224nd meeting on 18 July 2018, which is almost immediately after the end of the Presidency. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr Konrad Szymański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the course and achievements of the Bulgarian Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Bulgarian Presidency focused on the following issues: firstly, the future of Europe and young people - economic growth and social cohesion, secondly, the European perspective and communication with the Western Balkans, thirdly, security and stability in a strong and united Europe, fourthly, the digital economy and the skills of the future. As regards the implementation of the priority: the future of Europe and young people, the Bulgarian Presidency focused on the preparation of the MFF negotiations after 2020. The Presidency stressed the particular role of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which was in line with Poland's position. I would like to point out here that Poland has a critical attitude towards many elements of the European Commission's proposal on the next multiannual financial framework. Fully recognising the new priorities, it cannot be accepted that they are financed to a large extent at the expense of Treaty policies, particularly cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Poland, however, is ready to overcome the negotiating difficulties as soon as possible. The Presidency also continued its efforts to reform the Economic and Monetary Union, focusing on work on completing the Banking Union and strengthening the European Stability Mechanism. The second priority of the Presidency is the European perspective and communication with the Western Balkans. In May of this year, the European Union-Western Balkans summit took place in Sofia. This is the first summit on this level in many years. In particular, it was devoted to various dimensions of communication between the Union and the Balkans. Poland welcomed the results of the summit and stressed the importance of the Via Carpatia transport corridor, infrastructure and digital connections, ensuring diversification of energy sources and the role of the Tri-Morch initiative in filling infrastructure gaps. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another challenge faced by the Bulgarian Presidency was security and stability issues in a strong, united Europe. The priority was to implement mechanisms to increase the security of Union citizens, improve border protection and effective migration management. The Presidency sought consensus on the reform of the Common European Asylum System, but Poland did not support the way in which the Dublin Regulation was being worked and maintained its opposition to mandatory and automatic relocation. The Commission for European Union Affairs, considering this subject to be very important, considered at its meeting information on new European Union defence initiatives: in the framework of permanent structured cooperation, a coordinated annual defence review and the European Defence Fund. With regard to the digital economy and the skills of the future, the Presidency has sought to remove barriers to trade within the Union and has acted not only in the area of the Digital Single Market. The Presidency has concluded negotiations on the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services, but Poland is negatively assessing the final text of the Directive. The compromise we have worked out is unsatisfactory for us. As far as the mobility package is concerned, the Council of the European Union has ultimately failed to reach an agreement in the social and market part, so work will continue through the Austrian Presidency. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the European Union Committee on Affairs, I would like to emphasise once again that the Bulgarian Presidency is also a time of active work for the European Union Commission, actually as during the previous Presidency. During the Presidency of Bulgaria to the Council of the European Union, the committee held 40 meetings and adopted seven opinions, including three opinions on EU documents. In the case of two documents, the committee decided to send an opinion to the EU institutions within the framework of the so-called. political dialogue. In the case of one of these documents, the committee found infringement of the principle of subsidiarity, proportionality and good legislation. This was a draft regulation on medical technology assessment. At its meetings, the European Commission for European Affairs took up a number of important elements, including: it considered a parliamentary draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy after 2020. At the same time, the committee took its own legislative initiative on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. The Commission has discussed new initiatives from the European Commission for 2018. At the same time, she took the opinion in which she presented our Polish priorities. She also heard the Foreign Minister's information on the enlargement policy of the European Union, assessing the prospects for the accession of the Western Balkans. The Commission held another meeting on the state of play of the negotiations on the UK's arrival from the European Union and the UK's proposals on the rights of citizens of the European Union in the UK. We also read about the state of work on the so-called. a mobility package in the European Parliament and on the state of play of negotiations on the reform of the Common European Asylum System. The Commission also considered the information of the European Union Commissioner on the budget and human resources of Mr Günther Oettinger on the plans for the future multiannual financial framework. The Commissioner presented the committee's work programme for 2018. I will add that the committee took note of the information on Poland's position in the results of the audit of the European Court of Auditors in 2017, which was presented by Janusz Wojciechowski. The Permanent Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union and the Emergency Sub-Committee on Energy Policy of the European Union remain active within the European Union. The Energy Sub-Committee has already completed a number of work on the legislative package.Clean energy for all Europeans. The subcommittee is currently focusing its attention on other issues such as clean coal technologies. I would like to stress that the Law of 8 October 2010 on the cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate, i.e. the so-called. The co-operation law allowed the committee to obtain current information on the government's activities in the European arena, which the Commission for European Affairs makes rational and systematic use of. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking into account the well prepared written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thanking the Minister for a meaningful dialogue with the members of the committee, the European Union Commission decided to recommend to the High House the adoption of a resolution of the Sejm in which the Polish Parliament adopts information from the Council of Ministers on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during January-June 2018 during the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u230	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Club welcomes the government's work over the past six months. The activities and positions presented by Minister Konrad Szymański and Mrs Izabela Kloc, which presented the committee's report, presented exactly what was happening in committee, what had affected our decision to support this position. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer to some of these points. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the past six months have been a discussion about budget proposals, budget proposals for the future perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that what the European Commission has proposed requires far-reaching amendments. Unfortunately, your proposal, the European Commission, so Commissioner Elżbieta Bieńkowska and her colleagues, is unsatisfactory for Poland, far unsatisfactory and our government will do its utmost to improve, improve and make it much more beneficial for the Polish country. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the very important event of recent years, it is the last six months that the Polish position in terms of relocation of the so-called. refugees, relocation of immigrants who come to the European Union. We all remember at first a small group of countries which, together with Poland, fought to make it possible for them to decide their future in order to listen to the voices of societies. At that time there were various words that we were too tenderly listening to the voice of our societies. And I don't know what that's supposed to mean. We are simply implementing the democratic mandate which the Poles gave us. Poles, like many other nations of the European Union, did not want forced relocation, did not want illegal immigrants to go to our country, to our homes. Last six months That's admitting a point. We can - without satisfaction - say: didn't we say? Today, the whole European Union speaks with the voice presented by Poland. It is worth fighting hard for your interests, it is worth fighting hard for common sense, because the adoption of Poland's position by the whole European Union on immigrants is a triumph of common sense in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! On other issues that my previous speakers have raised, it is worth stressing the issue of the Gas Directive and the treatment of Poland for European solidarity, that these wordings should go into practice so that the Union speaks with a solidarity, a European voice on these issues. We are also very happy to be involved in the last half of the year in Central Europe's policy, Eastern Europe, the concept of the Intermarine, which was mentioned by Mrs Izabela Kloc, also in the integration of the Western Balkans with the European Union, but also in infrastructure issues such as the Via Carpatia project. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club supports the adoption of government activities over the past six months and information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u232	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me remind you that today we are assessing the work and activity of the Polish government in the work of the European Union. Not only what was happening in the EU forum, but above all Polish involvement and involvement of the Polish government in this work. And unfortunately for Poland, the assessment of the work of the Prime Minister Morawiecki's government is simply terrible. During the Bulgarian Presidency, in particular, two topics should be of particular interest to the High House. First of all, the issue of the launch of the article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union vis-à-vis Poland. I want to remind you that art. 7 talks about respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, respect for the rule of law, human rights and minority rights. The separate issue is whether any sanctions for Poland will be imposed and whether Poland will be affected. I hope it doesn't, but the problem is that the damage has already been done. The PiS government destroyed Poland's reputation, destroyed Poland's position and its power in Europe. And that's irreparable damage, that's a shame that the next governments will just have to fix. And that's responsibility. It's the current government. You, Minister, as an efficient diplomat, are very well aware that the interests of individual Member States are being undermined in the European Union. And those interests are the most effectively sought by those countries to which you simply have confidence, with which you want to have a dialogue with which you finally want to make compromises. Minister, I do not know what you think of President Duda's words about the imaginary community, but I know what Poles think of the European community. 77% our compatriots believe that Poland's presence in the European Union strengthens our independence. The PiS narrative about the fact that the Union is interfering too much in Polish matters is not supported in society. Minister, before I move on to the second issue, on the issue of the civil budget, I will return to the question of trust. Today, the Polish government simply does not trust itself. And it is about - I want to emphasize - the Polish government, not Poland as such. Another issue is the Polish society, and another is what the Polish government does. The reason for this is not only the fact that you destroyed independent judiciary in Poland, that prosecutors act on the political order of the ruling party, that Poles do not have a guarantee that their cases will be settled fairly by the prosecutor's office or courts. The very activity of Prime Minister Morawiecki in Brussels also affects Poland's reputation. Or else, Minister, there was a white book. In the document you are presenting today, there is very little about it and you haven't even mentioned it. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the White Paper would explain what is so-called. judicial reform in Poland. What happened? The problem is that the effect was exactly the opposite of what was intended. It turned out that the White Paper was full of lies, misconceptions, and it had the opposite effect, and it disfigured the Member States. Countries such as Germany, France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Spain were directly talking about the fact that the White Paper simply contains false information, and the effect, I stress, was exactly the opposite. The fact, Minister - as I was saying - that you are not talking about it today, is probably the best proof that the mission of Prime Minister Morawiecki in Brussels and the presentation of the White Paper simply ended with a total failure and total embarrassment. This White Paper is no longer being discussed today, so I would ask the Minister to answer the question of what happened to the White Paper and what its final effect was. And the second point, which is the EU budget. Shape and size of the Union budget This is not a problem for Brussels or for our relations with the European Commission. This is a problem of relations, and you know that, between Member States. Remember what the budget negotiations looked like when we negotiated the previous EU budget, when Prime Minister Donald Tusk gathered 16 countries around him, friends of cohesion. Where is Poland today as the leader of these 16 countries? Why doesn't anyone hear and talk about it? Minister, this is no way to negotiate the budget, and certainly nothing good for Poland in this way will not be negotiated. Minister! Today, no one trusts Poland, and in the end Poles and those who are beneficiaries of our membership of the European Union will lose. After all, no one will cooperate with the Prime Minister, who is regularly caught on a lie, whether in Brussels or in Poland. It is not that we are a deserted, sorry, a populous island to which no one can reach, but that everything that is happening with us reaches abroad and through the prism of what is happening with us, we are also judged abroad by our partners, who at the end decide, also co-decide on Polish matters. Minister! With the adoption of the attitude of the Polish government, the PiS government, as presented during the six months of the Bulgarian Presidency, nothing good will come of the fact that the lack of cooperation on our part, the lack of willingness to talk can only result in failure. Sooner or later, the Poles will settle you. Let me remind you: 77% Poles believe that Polish independence, independence, independence defends our membership of the European Union. Remember that, because you often rely on public opinion, that you have been chosen. In that case, pay attention to the 77% today. Poles who say that Poland's presence in the European Union is also a guarantee of Polish success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u234	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will only refer to these four priorities because of the time I have left. The first one you spoke about is the future of Europe and young people. You have quite neatly criticised the Commission's proposals, which reduce resources for cohesion policy - Poland is the largest beneficiary of these measures - but there is simply a question of the reason why the European Commission has presented us with such a proposal rather than another one. [[Why? Why?]] It is so that net contributors demand the creation of a new and budget-independent mechanism which makes the payment of funds dependent on sound financial management and the rule of law. If you had not broken the Constitution, destroyed the three divisions of power or violated the rule of law, there would have been no such proposals from the European Commission. [[Marek, stop it.]] On the other hand, as far as monetary and economic union is concerned, you considered it a success that you were at the table of talks. Minister, where is the start of preparations for Poland's entry into the euro area? After all, when we joined the Union, we committed ourselves. Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia are preparing for this. The more countries join the euro area, the stronger the ones that remain outside the euro area will simply be marginalized. Regarding the second priority of enlargement and communication policy with the Western Balkans, I have a question to ask the Minister: Are we ready to share European funds with the new members? In particular, it is about Ukraine, where we systematically limit development aid measures. With regard to the third priority, linked to security and migration, honesty is ordered, Minister, to remind you that strengthening external borders, distinguishing migrants from refugees, not agreeing to mandatory relocation of refugees - all this is in line with the position of the previous government, which you are so easily forgetting. On the other hand, it deserves attention to be supported by PESCO and to join other EU policy projects. It is a pity that the cancellation of Minister Macierewicz took so long, but better late than never. We read in the government document that Poland rarely offers something, only supports, demands, does not accept a compromise, disagrees or does not participate, as is the case with the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. But what is required of a government that has politicized and subjugated one party? The Presidency will pass, whether you like it or not, to history as the time when a public hearing took place for the first time in connection with the violation of the rule of law and the mobilisation of the Rule of Law. 7. The White Paper in Brussels was really embarrassing. You, Minister, know that. This ungrateful achievement only deepens the gap between the government of the PiS and the European Union, which, worse than it is, is moving Poland more and more away from the European standards of the democratic rule of law. Therefore, as a Civic Platform, we ask that information on the participation of the Polish Republic in the work of the European Union be rejected during the Bulgarian Presidency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u236	Thank you. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis information submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2018, i.e. during the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union. Before referring to the information, I will allow myself to refer briefly to the words spoken by Andrzej Duda in Leżajsk, words that cannot be left unanswered. The President de facto challenged the choice of Poles who voted in favour of Poland's accession to the European Union in the referendum. These disgraceful words about the imaginary community, from which little is apparent to us, can be viewed as a call for Poland to be removed from the European Union, which is undoubtedly what many PiS politicians dream of. This is a clear act against the Polish state's right. I am aware that for President Duda the benefits of belonging to the European Community have ended with the cessation of monthly transfers from the European Parliament. [[Everyone's looking at each other.]] However, membership of the European Community is a choice of civilization, it is a set of common values, it is a free single market, free movement of people and capital, it is a project that ensures Europe's development and security, for which the European Union has received the Nobel Prize. The explanatory memorandum contains very important words, also valid today and throughout this Bulgarian Presidency: it is a project that replaced the war with peace and hatred with solidarity. Finally, I will also mention transfers that are extremely important throughout this period of our membership of the European Union. Only for the period from January to 31 May, more than EUR 5340 million were received in Poland with a membership fee of EUR 1700 million. That's over 3600 million euros clean. Since Poland's accession to the European Union, the balance sheet is as follows: EUR 150 billion have been paid to Poland, EUR 50 billion have been paid contributions. I don't know... I know you can't understand it, but why do you harm Poland and Poles? As to the information presented by the Minister, I would like to make a brief reference to these elements. Certainly from the Bulgarian Presidency's point of view, this was a major challenge and it was a quite ambitious agenda for talks. As the Minister mentioned, in this first priority, the main elements were focused precisely on the preparation of the MFF negotiations, but also on the very important element of the reform of the Economic and Monetary Union towards the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union. There is nothing to hide that the changes will mainly be addressed by the countries of the euro area. Even with regard to this budget, instruments are being introduced which will in fact only be available to countries that have adopted the euro for their currency. The second very important element - the European perspective and communication with the Western Balkans - obviously had to be crucial for Bulgaria. And I am pleased that a discussion has started or has been restored that gives Europe the opportunity to expand in this area in some longer term. But the questions that have been raised here from the mouth of Mr Krzykala, what is Poland's position on this, also in this aspect of solidarity, are very valid. Without that, we can't move on. With regard to security and stability in a strong and united Europe, I would like to say that I see significant progress in this area and that these solutions that are adopted are a step forward. Finally, there is the digital economy and the skills of the future. It must be said that there are a number of elements that serve the economy, including the abolition of barriers, but during this period we must remember that there has been a very important element, which the Minister did not mention, because the Minister mentioned only the exclusion of transport workers from the category of posted workers, but as far as the rest of the sector is concerned, this directive is simply a solution for us, for the Polish economy adverse. There the Polish government could not take care of its affairs properly. I would like to remind you that at the end of 2017 he was practically not involved in the whole debate, where he could make a very simple use of this, to build a coalition of the state for positive solutions, because those countries that benefited from previous solutions were sixteen. It was easy simply to become the leader of this group, become an ambassador and make sure that one of the important interests for the Polish economy was realized. As Mrs Pomaska has already mentioned, we do not, however, judge what the Bulgarian Presidency was like, but we judge how the Polish government functioned within this Presidency, and how it also cared for our key interests. It wasn't easy, on my own request, I can say, it wasn't easy. Still initiated in December 2017 by the European Commission to deal with Article. 7 towards Poland put us in a very defensive situation. Instead of focusing on building a coalition of cohesion policy, other coalitions that would ensure our interests, you really focused on blocking this element. And you have concentrated in an inefficient way, because all these elements have their next steps. And it's not as optimistic as the Minister put it here, because the case isn't over and it's probably going to continue. But for Poland the most important element was without a doubt the construction of a coalition of cohesion, following the example of the coalition, which was built in 2011, 2012 thanks to which Poland gained sensational conditions. It was then explicitly stated that the key elements of the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, must be obtained. We managed to build a coalition of countries that provided money for economic development. You may underestimate this, but for Poland it is over 2% GDP per year. This is a giant shot of cash. As you will compare these net financial transfers, which came to Poland, the involvement of Polish companies, Polish local governments, it will turn out how much we managed to strengthen investments in Poland. Without that, these investments would be on their shoulders. They're still unsatisfying. Year after year we are talking about a decrease in investment, as was the case in 2016, a virtually small share of investments in 2017. If it weren't for European funds, the percentage and the rate would have been much worse. I would like to say - it is a pity that Mr Dziedziczak is not here - that Commissioner Bieńkowska, in the area of the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, for which she is responsible, in the area of defence, which is also in her briefcase, has enormous budget increases. She, as the Commissioner responsible for her area, can be satisfied. It's like one of the ministers of this government suddenly jumps a few dozen percent. He would certainly be pleased with the budget that was presented, but she was not responsible for the entire budget. But this budget was prepared by Commissioner Oettinger. Let me remind you that on 26 March we had a meeting with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on European Union Affairs. We were the ones asking questions about the budget. And what were the PiS Members doing? They raised peans in honor of the commissioner, they were delightful. Mrs Kloc, Mr Szewczak thanked you, but to be honest, we did not know for what, because nothing was on the table yet. They talked about the saved European budget, they talked about the maintained cohesion policy, which is a 50% drop, they talked about the maintained common agricultural policy, where there is a 1/4 drop, not including subsidies. I really don't believe it, because if it were true that a month before such a proposal you didn't know what the budget of the Multiannual Financial Framework after 2020, it would be even worse for you. That would prove it, and it's probably true that you're off the agenda of any conversation, that you're just not involved in any conversations. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club cannot vote for this information, because it is simply unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u238	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u239	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have once again heard, as every six months, a calm, factual report submitted by you to the High House from the next EU Presidency, from the activity of the Polish government in the European Council, in general within the European Union. Only this time I feel and hear that I am not alone in this debate, that we are dealing with a less masked game of appearances. Because on the one hand, listening to you talking about the European Union here, about the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, in which the Polish government was strongly involved, we have heard many times the words: security and stability. I understand that this is how you describe the European Union. So I'm asking... Because this question should be raised in the context of yesterday's statement by President Andrzej Duda, one of the leaders of your political camp, who, in the flow of sincerity, said that what you call security and stability is called an imaginary community from which nothing comes for us. There may be nothing in the Law and Justice for you, except maybe a dozen MEPs, for whom very specific financial benefits from their presence in the European Union come every month, but for Poles there are many, very many. These are rights equal to the rights of citizens of all other Member States of the European Union, the right to benefit outside the European Union from consular care and diplomatic care of the European Union's representations, and therefore full citizenship of the first category in our unimaginable European community. Secondly, the right to move freely within the European Union as recently as for tourism and leisure purposes, but also for commercial purposes, the right to work legally with a full social and legal security package related to the pursuit of this work outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. We remember, you probably remember, I remember, a time when Poles worked in black with all the negative consequences, being victims of abuse, abuse and deception by dishonest employers from different countries of the European Union. There is a second group that takes advantage of the benefits of participating in a real European community, i.e. young people, especially students who have the right to benefit from European programmes such as Erasmus, the right to study at a selected university everywhere in Europe under the same conditions as nationals of other European countries. Finally, there is a very specific dimension that benefits from being in the European Union, which Poles see almost every step and every corner in their larger and smaller homelands, so it is a financial dimension. Today it results in better road infrastructure, more beautiful cities, more beautiful and more functional artistic and cultural objects. This dimension can be expressed in a very specific amount of over EUR 100 billion, i.e. over PLN 400 billion net Polish On the plus side. Taking into account transfers from the European Union to Poland and Polish fees, Polish contribution and any other necessary tributes to the European Union from Poland, it can be calculated that from the beginning of the European Union's membership from Brussels, almost 150 billion have been received from the common EU budget to the Republic of Poland, and about 50 billion from above the Vistula River have flowed there. The balance sheet is clearly positive and positive, i.e. EUR 100 billion. Poles knew this well and knew it when they were going to the EU referendum in 2003. I will remind you that it was the only referendum in the history of 1989, probably after 1945, which was important because it was attended by almost 60%. voting rights, 77% of which , a huge number of 13.5 million Poles, voted in favour of membership in the European Union. And I hear today, whether yesterday, from the Minister's mouth at the Prime Minister's office, an important minister, Mr Sasin, that Law and Justice has always been a pro-European or Euro-enthusiastic party. Another mask falls, another part of the game of appearances, this theatre cheating against Poles reveals itself. I am well aware of the argument made by law and justice in the 2003 campaign, but I would also like to remind you in this debate, in this House, that you are in one of the Eurosceptic factions, not the Euro-Enthusiastic. It is time to ask you what is the true position of the PiS and the government of PiS towards the European Union, because the growing number of Poles not only suspect, but confirm in their suspicion, and today believe that you The European Union hates that you You would like to abandon the European Union, but you are afraid of the wrath of the voters. That, unfortunately, was very clear in this report when we returned to your speech. It was clear when you talked about this, focusing on a few priorities chosen, and it is very right that when it comes to negotiating the next multiannual EU budget, which is the multiannual financial framework, you are failing. You admit it. This budget will be smaller and, as a result, direct payments to farmers will be smaller and investment funds, which have become so much part of the Polish landscape, will be smaller. And you have no idea how to reverse this negative trend, because you are not among the most serious players and participants of these negotiations, but you are on an increasing margin with our historic nephews, but today, I think, rather the burden of the politicians ruling the Hungarian Fidesz. The second area you mentioned, and rightly that you mentioned, was the conclusion of negotiations on the Posting of Workers Directive, i.e. the possibility for Polish entrepreneurs to provide services freely on EU markets. And you also admitted that so, that the Polish government unfortunately failed in this case. You are the only ones who suffer a negotiation failure, a diplomatic failure, and Polish entrepreneurs will pay for it. That is why it is good for farmers, entrepreneurs to know the consequences of the policy of the European government in which you sit, the government led by Mateusz Morawiecki. Finally, the third thing that may be the most important thing that you have left out, because you have necessarily taken it in your hierarchy as the last one, and you have not been able to properly relate to it, a conflict with the European Union regarding the respect for the system of values on which the European Union was built. These values are enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, and the Treaty of Lisbon, which is worth recalling, was negotiated and accepted by both Kaczyński brothers. At that time, when decisions were made about his records and his acceptance, the president was Lech Kaczyński, the late Prime Minister - Jarosław Kaczyński. It is your party and your environment that have agreed to such provisions as today are the basis for waiting, and in principle the European Union has already entered into the enforcement phase of the negotiated provisions that your politicians have also accepted regarding compliance with the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary, which you violate. Hence the Art procedure. 7.1., which you were talking about, and hence the decision to refer the Supreme Court Act to the Court of Justice of the European Union by the European Commission. And once again, I will remind you of the words that have been said during this six-month period: Poland will not negotiate this issue, it is not a question to negotiate with the European Union. If he does not negotiate, Minister, he will bear the real losses for which Polish citizens will pay. Once again, Poles will be convinced that you are not pro-European. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anti-Europeans, just for political use, cheating Poles, cheating voters. Therefore, I submit a request on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to reject this information in today's debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u240	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On June 11, 1999, I was a student and I stood at the Sejm to welcome John Paul II when he came to the Sejm to give a speech to the Polish society, to the parliament where Mr. Marshal Tyszka is sitting. John Paul II said here: "I wish once again to express my appreciation for the efforts undertaken consistently and in solidarity, whose aim since the regaining of sovereignty is to seek and preserve Poland's rightful and safe place in a united Europe. And then there were significant words: "The integration of Poland with the European Union is supported by the Holy See from the very beginning. High Izbo! Where are we now? Where are you taking us? President Duda calls the European Union an imaginary community, from which we have little to show, says to the European Union: "Let them leave us alone." What happens to Poland 19 years after the words of the Pole John Paul II? This is not an imaginary community. The European Union is a guarantee of our security. She helped us with the civilization leap. What's the alternative? The alternative is to be in the Russian sphere of influence. And the cherry on the cake - yesterday's candidate for a child's attorney, PiS-owska candidate, said about the Children's and Youth Sejm: [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the indoctrination of children to demonstrate the non-alternativity of the democratic system. I ask: What is the alternative to a democratic system? [[Dictatorship.]] And aren't you ashamed that you called in a candidate like that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you about the first priority relating to the future of Europe and young people, specifically the Erasmus+ programme. As for the validity of this programme, we should not have any different opinions, in the committee you have repeatedly stressed that this programme is important and necessary. I wanted to ask you if you are familiar with the problem of third-year students who are going to Erasmus in the summer semester. Well, when they come in June, there's a bachelor's defense. It turns out that at foreign universities sometimes the semester takes a little longer, and therefore, they can't defend themselves in June, usually they do it in September. The problem is that college admissions are in July, so they can't apply for college because they don't have a bachelor's degree. This usually results in the fact that they have to wait a year, because it's rare that someone else in the second September call gets into the college they want. Therefore, my question and request is to find, however, a legal solution that will make this program not a penalty, but a reward, and, as I said at the beginning, I think that we have no doubt about the validity of this programme. I would like to ask you to take this into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u244	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern. Oh, excuse me, Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u245	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've got a couple of topics for the multi-annual financial framework. Firstly, I ask for specific dates, the dates when you did your job, you met with people who are supposed to have the greatest impact on the shaping of the future European budget. Politico said that it would be two people from Poland. Did Donald Tusk get an agenda from the state for what issues to pursue, which is crucial from your point of view? Mr Olbrycht was e.g. rapporteur, one of the two rapporteurs of a very important document, which outlined the whole structure of the budget after 2020 and which was adopted by the European Parliament in spring. As you know, the budget must also be approved by the European Parliament, not only by the Member States. Finally, if it is so that Commissioner Elżbieta Bieńkowska was responsible for this budget and she prepared it, whether you had meetings with it and when specifically. In any event, he may be here to support Minister Dziedziczak, who also served as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs last year. I would like to know what he did to negotiate a coalition for cohesion policy. Secondly, why did you allow this budget for Poland to decrease by PLN 100 billion at the start? It's just a really cosmic amount. And I would also like to ask you whether there has ever been such a case in the history of the European Union that the budget proposed by the European Commission for the common agricultural policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] and cohesion policy was lower at the time of the proposal, and higher at the final hand or never at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u246	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u247	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have listened very carefully to your presentation for the last six months. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that in my opinion the situation is much worse than that presented by the Minister. I have a few specific questions and a few more general ones. As regards specific questions, you mentioned the skills of the future as one of the main directions of development in the last six months. I wanted to ask about Poland's participation in the work in this area and how it translated into work in Poland, into activities in Poland. You mentioned work on defense. Because nothing happens to the satellite system in Poland even though you have tried four times and eventually you have chosen the president of the Polish Space Agency - nothing has happened for six months, but there is a lot going on in the European Union - are there discussions with the European Union about the use of the satellite system of one of the Member States for our defence? The next question concerns 5G. As we know, unfortunately, the frequencies, especially in the north-eastern part of Poland, are occupied and in fact this prevents the introduction of this system in Poland. I know that you have asked the European Union for help in solving this problem. At what stage are these talks and is there any chance that the Union will actually engage in a measurable way in order to make these frequencies available in Poland for 5G implementation? The next question is about gas. As we know, the Russian side has already begun the construction of another Nord Stream thread. Did you thus overlook the failure that we have suffered as a Polish side regarding the attempt to block another construction? I will disregard your last remark without comment, because it was whistled over by the Supreme Court and the fact that the actions you are conducting in the country are bringing us closer to the European Union. We all know it's the other way around. And the general question. There have been many times here that phrase you used, President Duda, about an imaginary community. Do you personally share that view? Is there any way you are trying to explain them in discussions in the European Union? Does this mean that really - what we see in the public opinion more and more - PiS equals polyxit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u248	Thank you. Mr. Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you three questions. They all deal with the assessment of the Bulgarian Presidency in specific aspects. The first point is the issue of sanctions against Russia in terms of trying to poison a Russian agent. Consequently, all European countries have practically withdrawn their diplomats and Bulgaria has only called its diplomats for consultations. However, as a result of further efforts by the Bulgarian side, the Russians changed the Turkish pipe route and this pipeline will continue to Europe through Bulgaria and Hungary. As far as relations between the European Union and Turkey are concerned, there have actually been two important meetings during this Presidency. In fact, today, the only thing that can be said is that, when it comes to fulfilling Turkey's obligations vis-à-vis Europe, the European Union, especially with regard to immigrants, the conditions are respected. On the other hand, the Bulgarian side's actions seem very interesting in these relations, especially as regards the Europeanisation of the Western Balkans, because they have actually led to such a situation that in practically two years' time when Croatia will run the Presidency, we will return to the topic of the Turkish and Europeanisation of the Western Balkans. I would like to ask what is the position of the Foreign Ministry in relation to this situation. I mean the Polish state right, of course. I would also like to ask how you assess European solidarity in this situation that took place during this Presidency, particularly in terms of Nord Stream 2. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very interesting Presidency in the context of the enlargement of the European Union. Here, in fact, Bulgaria did much to talk about it, to intensify it. I wanted to ask specifically what our country's relations are in the context of the enlargement of the European Union as regards the Balkans. Another issue is environmental protection. This was a very important point, the continuation of the activities of the previous Presidency. There are some restrictions on the production of plastics. In May, probably at the end of May, this directive was proposed by Bulgaria. This is important because a lot of our time has been talked about bringing in garbage, recycling. Unfortunately, aside from the fact that this has been discussed, I have the impression that nothing has been done about it. And the question is: Is there any pleasant surprises on the part of the European Union in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u252	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to answer all the questions. I have all of them written down, so even if I don't answer now, I'll answer in writing. I think one of the most important things is the perception of the budgetary process, the multiannual budget of the European Union. It would be good for the debate on this issue, in particular in the Polish Sejm, to be somewhat more linked to the facts. The budget of the European Union - if it is really compared to the construction that has now been proposed - by the European Commission is submitted in such a way that it is less than the current multiannual budget. If we remove UK funds from today's budget, so that we compare the relevant things if we join the European Development Fund, it will turn out that the European Commission has proposed a smaller budget than before in relation to gross national income, especially if we consider fixed prices, because these are the only ones that really matter when comparing important parts of this budget. Many times it has been said here, already in a broader context than only in the context of the budget, that direct transfers, of which Poland is of course a beneficiary, play an important role, but not the only one. There are many Member States that are beneficiaries of transfers, and not all can boast of economic growth such as Poland, not all can boast of the rapid increase in economic and social convergence as Poland. So the situation seems a little more complicated. This is probably not the only factor that is a factor in Poland's development. There is also a much more serious question. Poland will become richer and, by nature, the role of the European Union budget will be reduced. I hope there's a full consensus about that. What will the state that brings Poland's membership into the European Union today into direct transfers tell its voters, convincing them that it is worth to be in the Union if these numbers become smaller and they have to become smaller if we really believe that Poland will be richer? Poland is becoming richer today, which is why the role of the European Union budget for its development will necessarily have to decrease. If we lead to the situation that the average Pole will associate the European Union only and only with the size of transfers, we will wake up in an extremely unpleasant situation one day, because one day someone will draw us a bill and show us that these transfers have disappeared, not because there have been bad circumstances in the European Union, but because Poland has become a rich country. I think that's what we all want. I hope that we all want this, although some of the speeches were impressive, as if some of the opposition countries wanted Poland to be chronically dependent on external growth mechanisms. It was mentioned here, among other things, that the European Union's funds have grown permanently into a landscape. It seems to me that the sense of European funds is to accelerate convergence, accelerate economic and social success, which will allow Poland to no longer be dependent on external growth factors, so that Poland will stand on its own feet without any hesitation. If we think of ourselves in such a way that we plan our future for long, long years as a country that is permanently dependent on external factors, it is a very sad scenario, I must say, and I am surprised that such words fall in the Polish Parliament. Contrary to what has been said several times here, it seems to me that I have said quite a lot and not quite the general things about the art procedure. 7. I said, among other things. what should be a test of the effectiveness of the previous diplomatic activities, the government's actions towards other governments, including the White Paper. I said clearly - the state did not argue with this claim - that today in the EU General Affairs Council there are no majority of Member States who would be able to vote any negative opinion on Polish matters. It seems to me that this is enough to say that despite the enormous pressure, the pressure generated also from Warsaw, which is a sad aspect of this process, we are able to maintain a meaningful dialogue. I must note with regret that when it comes to the discussion in the General Affairs Council on this difficult, very dividing, very controversial issue, because the bounds of the European Union's competences in matters which are not covered by this competence, the atmosphere was substantially much more substantive than in some speeches in the Polish Sejm. I do not mean just this debate, but also many other debates that seemed as if the opposition Members prayed that Poland would not succeed, as if they were praying for failure to be more so as to present their black visions and build their political success on it. I do not know another country in which anyone builds his political strategy on the failure of his own country, on the failure of his own country. [[Applause]] This is a chronic disease of this congregation, and I hope that one day we will overcome this easy threshold and start thinking in terms of common good. As far as more specific issues are concerned, I think that the market aspects of the skills of the future, which is mainly the digital single market, are very important. I was talking about that. Contrary to what you are permanently denying, Poland was one of those countries that initiated the Prime Minister's initiatives twice, which put pressure on legislative work on this important issue to move faster for the future of the common market. Poland was not the obstacle here. See if you can find out who the hindrance was. Certainly not Poland. Poland was in the first line of countries that expected concrete legislative action on this issue. No one can do anything about this, because this is precisely the competence of the European Union. Similarly, the European Union's competence is the common market rules for gas infrastructure. This is certainly the competence of the European Union. And what do we see? It turns out that countries that are willing to wave the EU flag are doing everything they can to ensure that the European Union does not act actively towards Nord Stream 2. Paradoxes like this happen, too. The question then arises: Whose failure will it be if the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is actually built? Poland or Slovakia, or maybe the European Union, or maybe all those politicians who tell uncircumcised stories every day and since Christmas about the potential future role of the European Union, aspirations, in particular inward-looking ones, and when it comes to what, they pretend that they do not see that someone is implementing a strategic infrastructure investment, disregarding the rules of European Union law: and treaties, and secondary law. It was Poland that brought the Gas Directive to the table for legislative work at all. This was a direct response to the appeal of the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the European Council when we loudly demanded that if anyone had doubts whether Nord Stream should be covered by EU law, we ask that he submit a legislative proposal which would explain these doubts. The European Commission did. We are very grateful for this because it was a factual response to a very serious problem. It is not Poland that makes it difficult to adopt this directive. On the contrary, Poland has organised a coalition of 14 countries, creating a compromise that is to be friendly to some of those countries that hesitate and yet the legislative process is blocked. This is also the reality of the European Union. Perhaps the most important thing in this debate is the attitude towards the European Union as such. That's more than 77%. Poland is comforted that it belongs to a few countries which have an immeasurable, vast majority of the population, which believes that membership of the European Union makes sense. The number of such persons in the European Union is decreasing, in particular in the founding countries of the European Union. It is not only for arithmetic reasons that the state should note that the parliamentary majority, the parties behind the government, the United Right, the Law and Justice are part of this majority. This majority would not have been, if it had not been for the Polish right, this majority would not have been, if it had not been for President Andrzej Duda, so praying again to provoke an anti-EU response is perhaps in line with your party accounts, [[Applause]] but it is extremely incompatible with the Polish state. It would certainly be easier for you to finally find your favorite opponent in the form of someone who would undermine the sense of Polish membership in the Union, but you will not find this opponent here. You need to keep looking. [[What are you talking about?]] You will not see the opponent, the opponent of Poland's membership in the European Union in the majority of Parliament, in the governing coalition, and you will not see this opponent in the person of President Duda and finish this topic. He's starting to be pathetic. [[You have to tell him that.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u254	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Kloc, I do not see. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? I've got one call. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u255	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! In this second reading, I had only to repeat the text of the draft resolution which we prepared in the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, saying that the Sejm did not accept information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the first half of 2018, but could not refer to the words of Minister Szymański just said from this speaker. Well, Minister, I'll agree with you in part. Indeed, this discussion about the relation to this issue of the Polish right hand or that part of the Polish right hand represented today by Law and Justice - you used such words - is pathetic. Yes, it is true that you bring this discussion to a pathetic level, you, ladies and gentlemen, and the president, who represents your camp and confesses to it. [[Applause]] The words from the Leżajska saying that this is an imaginary community - I will repeat once again - from which we have nothing, were not the only ones that were, to say the least, unwise and which should never have fallen from the mouth of a country whose citizens - exactly as you said - express their satisfaction with participation in the European Union in 80%, more than 77%, and wish that the European Union and Poland within would be stronger, more efficient and richer. I remember the words that it was time to fight or restore Poland's independence, also expressed in the context of the European Union. So, if I understand correctly, in the opinion of the President of the Republic of Poland, the community is imaginary, but threatens Polish independence. These are the words that no opposition representative from this speaker would have said, your leader said, and the actions that follow those words, carried out in Brussels by your government, confirm that this is the true attitude of the camp that you represent to the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u256	Thank you. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u257	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I can't agree with your words. Really, you have such a political populism here that I doubt anyone in Poland can be caught. How can you say that the opposition is responsible for what the President said? How can you say that the opposition keeps its thumbs crossed and is trying to cause Poland to leave the European Union, since we are all on the watch for this order that is? We don't agree with the way you proceed with this case. As for what you're saying here, I'm really shocked. I know you from a time when, as an entrepreneur, I fought for shale gas in the European Union when we were looking for shale gas in Poland. I remember your commitment, and I remember your comments in the plenary room, which were factual, concrete, diplomatic, given for a specific purpose. Today, on the other hand... I don't know. Have you been through brainwashing? I'm really shocked to hear you say that. Is white black and black white? Did you soak in that newcomer? It cannot be said that the opposition is trying to get Poland out of the European Union. We don't speak for the President, we speak for the words he uses, and it's not the first time. Previously, the European Union was compared to the conquerors, and now we are talking about an imaginary community. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Either we form this community, we want to shape it properly together, or we stand in opposition to it. You stand in opposition and you say we stand in opposition. Really, we can't deal with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u258	Relax, you still have time if you want to continue. There's a time-counting system malfunction, so I'm gonna say I'm gonna count it... [[The system doesn't work for millions of years.]] The system's crashed. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I regret it very much, but I have the impression that whoever sticks with whom becomes one. The Minister is going a very bad way. We stress every step of the way that today there is no problem or conflict between Poland, Poles and the European Union. Today there is a problem concerning the Polish government, the PiS government, which is in conflict where possible, which is not looking for compromises, not looking for friends in the European Union, but for political benefits here, in the country, political benefits that have very short legs, Minister, looking everywhere for enemies. He believes that this will bring these benefits. However, the end will be very sad, Minister, not only for your government and for the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, but the end can and will also be very sad for the Polish society. And I leave it to you to consider that this madness will someday end, that you will one day be accounted for, that they are looking at our hands not because they want to do Poland harm, not because in Poland no one sees friends, because we as Poland - as a beautiful country, as a still democratic country, which has fought for these values every day - we have many friends. You want to destroy this Poland, and this will be the result that Poland will not lose friends, only the Polish government will lose friends, but the consequences will be borne by all. I simply encourage a little reflection and at least in this House not to use lies, manipulation and repetition of many lies, because unfortunately the Minister has done so today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u261	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The European Union is increasingly treated in the public debate as such a threat or part of a political struggle. Thinking of the European Union, we are being held hostage by the current political struggle between two large forces, and that is not so... The European Union is the organisation that has recently wondered how to reduce double product quality. By the way, it is a pity that Polish MEPs and the Polish government have not put much emphasis on this issue. I remember the involvement of Hungarians, and the most Czechs and Slovaks who raised this issue have done research. In Poland, no one was too eager to take care of the citizens. It was more important to fight hard to create such a body, an area for a strong internal Polish political struggle. And it's very dangerous. Indeed, the European Union, which serves its citizens - and should serve its citizens, and should also be our MEPs there, should also strive to do so by our government - becomes such a beautiful arena of games concerning our internal elections. This is a thing that is only getting worse, and during this debate it is perfectly heard. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u262	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle on information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2018 with the Presidency of Bulgaria in the Council of the European Union together with the position of the European Union Commission. During Bulgaria's Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Bulgarian Presidency devoted considerable attention to the energy area and to the work on the project "Clean energy for Europeans." Poland was mainly working on this issue throughout the Bulgarian Presidency. At that time Poland built a coalition for individual elements of this package and held talks with the European Commission and the European Parliament. Bulgaria has conducted trialogues between the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission on clean energy package documents, namely the draft directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the draft regulation on the management of the Energy Union and the draft directive of the European Parliament on energy efficiency. In the capital of Bulgaria, Sofia, an informal meeting was held on the basis of the European Union's ministers for energy. The energy directives and acts were discussed at the time. In addition, the hope has been expressed for a quick compromise to be reached in this regard. Thanks to Poland's efforts, all Member States of the European Union will have to draw up a national energy and climate plan according to their location and specificities. Thanks to the efforts of Poland, the European Union's energy resolutions are largely in line with Poland's energy management plans, which should be considered as a very high success of our country in relation to its energy policy within the European Union. In view of this policy, Poland has also engaged in intensified discussions and efforts in connection with the draft directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the draft regulation establishing the European Union Agency for Energy. Cooperation of Energy Regulators. Thanks largely to Poland and its international cooperation with Bulgaria, a number of energy compromises and assumptions have been developed in the European Union, which improve the quality of this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The issues I would like to raise regarding information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union chaired by Bulgaria concern the area of agriculture. The first is linked to the work of the EU on the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive between traders in the food supply chain. Our Parliament is currently working on an amendment to the similar law on countering the unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. My question is therefore: How compatible are the legal acts and whether the directive will meet our expectations, among others. including entities regardless of their size and scale of activity? The second topic is the issue of African swine fever, diseases of great economic, economic and social importance, where the EU faces the threat of a growing territory. Poland has become a front country in the fight against its spread and thanks to our great efforts it has been significantly slowed down. What assistance can Poland have in this fight from the EU? We are also talking about developing new solutions in the fight against this disease. What are the solutions involved, or is this also the case for legal solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u265	To vote on the project... Oh, excuse me. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed resolution, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, print No 2839. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min 36 hours 15 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Governmental Draft Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds (Prints No. 2773 and 2823). I ask Elizabeth Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the Act on Health Care Benefits financed by public funds, prints No. 2773 and 2823. The proposed amendments respond to the Ministry of Health's proposal to ensure the best possible use of the time of persons issuing medical certificates. The proposed bill provides for support for the issuing of medical certificates on temporary incapacity to work for the issue of such certificates by a person other than a doctor on the basis of medical records drawn up by doctors. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading on 18 July 2018. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 11 September 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit the following request from a minority. Art. 2 to read as follows: .Art. 2. The Act of 27 August 1997 on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities is amended as follows: 1. after Article. Article 2a is inserted. 2b as follows: 'Art. 2b. The decision of mental illness, mental impairment, overall developmental disorders or epilepsy referred to in Article. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Article 26 (2) (b) 1b also confirms the certificate issued by the disability decision panel which issued the disability decision or the degree of disability. 2. The certificate shall not contain a symbol of the cause of disability. 3. The certificate shall be valid during the period of validity of the decision.'; 2. in Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6b in the mouth. 3 The entry into the calculation is replaced by the following: 'The decision of the district panel shall determine the disability or the degree of disability, no more than three symbols of the causes of the disability and indications relating in particular to:'. The minority proposal was tabled by Magdalena Kochan. Legislative amendments were also tabled, which the Committee on Social Policy and the Family adopted in a positive opinion. I ask the High House to adopt this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u267	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on public-funded healthcare provision. The project was prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and was adopted by the Council of Ministers. During the introduction of e-releases, the Social Insurance Institution listened to doctors' expectations. As a result, hundreds of trainings were organized throughout Poland, and instead of costly electronic signatures, anyone issuing the release can benefit from a free certificate issued by the ZUS. This trend also fits into the most important part of the bill's proposal for the possibility of electronic layoffs also by medical assistants. This will allow doctors who benefit from additional staff to reduce the burden of non-treatment tasks. The assistant will be able to enter the ZUS system on the basis of medical records of the period of incapacity for work of the patient. The mandate to act on behalf of the physician will be recorded in electronic form in the Act of the Register of Medical Assistants appointed in accordance with the draft law. In addition to the Register of Medical Assistants, which will facilitate the work of doctors, the project also provides new tasks for the National Health Fund. This is to support the ITisation of the health care system by co-financing expenditure on the purchase of equipment and the training of staff. According to the project, by the end of next year the National Health Fund will allocate about PLN 70 million for this purpose, some of which will be financed by the savings resulting from the departure from paper redundancies. It is worth remembering that today for manual introduction of these documents into the system of ZUS spends about 40 million PLN per year. No less important element added at the last stage of the legislative work is the implementing judgment of the Constitutional Court on the protection of personal goods with disabilities suffering from mental illness. It amends the scope of information contained in the disability and disability judgment in a way that allows the implementation of the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal. This postulate also meets the expectations of disability environments. Ladies and gentlemen! Computerisation of public administration services is one of the foundations of creation a modern, friendly citizen and entrepreneurs of Poland. Less bureaucracy in the health care system is more time to treat patients. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much, Marshal. I am authorized by the President of the Parliamentary Club to make an amendment, which I hereby hand over to the Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u269	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds, Seym prints No. 2773 and 2823. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill concern two things. First of all, it concerns the possibility of hiring medical assistants who will complete the doctor's work, which means they will be able to issue an electronic release on the basis of research and medical documentation, which will allow doctors to spend more time diagnosing and treating patients. The Act also defines the sources of funding, the way of training, the money for computer equipment and the competences required of medical assistants, and the way in which the Register of Medical Assistants is created. As regards this record, the Civic Platform club has no reservations, because these are absolutely necessary records that will facilitate work and deprive doctors of the need to practice so-called. paperwork. On the other hand, the provisions of the Article. 2 raised our concerns. Those were the records that violated the Constitutional Court's judgment. The point was that in the certificates issued by the county's d.o.b. disability claims were marked with symbols that allowed outsiders to identify the disease when they were shown, e.g. mental illness. These provisions also did not agree, although the Act states that they comply with the requirements of the European Union, we believe that they were not compatible because they violated the GDPR law. I may have heard wrong from the Member at the moment. The Civic Platform has submitted a minority request, but I do not remember that this minority request was voted out at the committee meeting. In this proposal we reported the need to issue two certificates, i.e. one disability certificate and the other for a disabled person without entering a digital symbol. If it's actually been removed from this bill... Regardless of this, the Civic Platform Club will support this law, recognising the urgent need to improve the work of doctors. We are all the more pleased if, in fact, those records we had reservations about have been changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u271	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity and the Law on public-funded healthcare, print No 2773. In principle, the draft law deals with two aspects. There is no doubt about one thing that brings us closer, although with turtles, but, nevertheless, to benefit from the facilitation of the possibility of electronic access to health care services. The fact that a doctor using the information profile will be able to authorise another medical professional to issue a medical release, e.g. The nurse is a decisive facilitation, especially for those who have neither the time nor the physical ability to stand in queues, which are unfortunately still there. In the proposed bill, and it is worth recalling a few facts here, there is a planned amount. It is about redirecting part of the ZUS resources to the computerization of NFZ and also transferring the competence of NFZ in the field of computerization. I read in the explanatory memorandum that it will amount to 340 million in total, including all sources, including the budgetary reserve. It is worth recalling or asking where and for what purposes, as far as we know, 800 million spent on computerization as far as health care is concerned. Few people currently use e-prescription, only 24% institutions use the data transfer function, and this was the plan, let me remind you that in 2018 there will actually be no paper prints and no paper documentation. For a reminder, it is worth mentioning the computerization of the ZUS. In fact, from the very beginning, when it started, it was 4 billion, i.e. About 400 million a year. The last ZUS-owska overlay last year, on which we voted, for sick leave was a sum of 100 million. As we add all of this up and see what the results are, we just see that there's really no savings, although there was supposed to be computerization that was going to lead to this. It's actually also a big spending money that doesn't show us that we're closer to the goal. But this is taxpayers' money. I know this is not the fault of the current government, because these expenses are already included in previous years. Then it is worth asking how the money was spent, because these are really serious amounts. The proposed law also amends the Act on Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Rehabilitation. She is de facto pursuing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which concerns the regulation, which indicated the obligation to insert a symbol that violates the potentially constitutional right to keep private life secret. In fact, this law does not go against the purpose of the Constitutional Tribunal to protect this data. It simply points out that this regulation is invalid, it can be avoided, but the law is able to include, also include such a degree of disability due to disability. Of course, I understand that this must be the case, because it is impossible to avoid typing and issuing certificates at this point. Perhaps this amendment, which was tabled by the Civic Platform, would allow the anonymity of the person for whom the judgment is based to be preserved. Why? Because many criteria for receiving different benefits, e.g. employment in occupational activities is conditional, inter alia. getting this kind of symbol on this ruling, so it can't be done. At the end of the day, I just want to point out one important thing. How boomerang brings back the topic on which I have been provocating from this speaker for three years, the reform of the system of ruling. So far, you have not presented the objectives of this reform for three years. This type of overlay, perhaps eight times the revised Act on Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, is nothing more than deepening pathology in this system. It's really time to start at last. That's what I'm gonna do. You have the money, the tools, the full power, the public apparatus, you have everything. Why aren't you making reforms? Even if I don't know what kind of money to put into the social security system, it's gonna make them all run away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the act on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds, print No. 2773, together with the report of the committee, print No. 2823. This draft law provides for the possibility for a person other than a doctor to issue certificates on the basis of medical records prepared by a doctor. Of course, this is an element that will make a significant contribution to improving the work of doctors. Persons authorised to issue a medical certificate on the basis of a separate authorisation granted by a doctor would be those who perform a medical profession and persons performing ancillary activities in the provision of health services. The proposed solutions will make it possible to relieve the burden on doctors in the case of obligations consisting solely of completing a medical certificate on temporary incapacity for work, and is also another action to assist in the elimination of paper circulation. If the law was adopted, the doctor could focus his activity on the treatment of patients rather than on purely technical procedures. However, there is a high risk because in the case of the above. occupations, which must be borne in mind, also have a large turnover of workers. We therefore recognise that the temporary authorisation mechanism for 12 months is a kind of risk reduction. Unappointed persons will then not be able to issue medical certificates. An additional form of protection against abuse is the principle of the liability of doctors for activities undertaken by authorised persons. Given that in the case of a medical certificate issued, the person who will issue the certificate on his behalf should be identified, account shall also be taken of the legal liability associated with it, which also arises from the provisions of the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in the case of sickness and maternity. It just rests on the doctor. The Act also introduces an amendment resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has already been mentioned by the Members of both the Civic Platform and Kukiz15, which stated that the regulation, which provides for mandatory inclusion of the symbol of the cause of disability and consequently the type of illness, in particular mental illness, as a cause of disability, in the disability decision, is non-constitutional and should result in a change of legal status. I think we are unanimous on this issue, that indeed in this delicate matter anonymity should be preserved. I believe that legislative action should therefore be taken immediately. To conclude, Modern is in favour of this project, it will support it, because it is a kind of improvement in direction. Indeed, the additional question that I could ask from this point of view would primarily concern the source of funding for this whole project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u276	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds, prints No. 2773 and 2823. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the project is to allow the issue of a medical certificate on temporary incapacity for work by a person other than a doctor on the basis of medical records prepared by a doctor. The proposed mechanism assumes that a doctor, as a person with medical expertise, will focus his activity on the performance of basic activities related to medical procedures, such as health assessment and treatment, and on the determination of temporary incapacity to work due to illness, hospital or other medical facility, a medical entity carrying out medical activities of the type of stationary and 24-hour health benefits, or the need for personal care of a sick family member. It consists of carrying out a direct health check on the insured or sick family member and documenting the decision in the medical records carried out under separate provisions. Ladies and gentlemen! The last of the elements of the above process, i.e. the issuing of a medical certificate could be performed by a person empowered by a doctor, i.e. I'm a medical assistant. Ensure the best possible use of the time of persons issuing medical certificates by supporting doctors in the issue of a medical certificate on temporary incapacity for work by a person other than a doctor on the basis of medical records drawn up by a doctor this is the right direction of changes that will be supported by the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u277	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has the floor. No, I'm sorry, Mrs Zwierzan sent her statement in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. Mr Paweł Pudłowski has the floor. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u278	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the cost because there were different amounts here. As far as the total cost is concerned, Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj from Kukiz The reason for the project itself is the amount of 50 million, it is assumed that the Minister of Health will provide funding up to this amount of 50 million from the state budget reserves. Please answer the question of exactly how much money it is, 50 million or 70 million, what it will go for, what it is in the end, what exactly it will be spent on and what period it will be spent on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u279	Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if I understood the information correctly that this amount of tens of millions of zlotys is the amount that the ZUS uses to enter into the system of manually completed medical sick leave, those that were not introduced electronically. These texts also usually contain the most errors, and I mean to clarify what this amount is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u281	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all parliamentary clubs for their support for this bill. It can be said that it is a draft law that supports the legal solutions adopted earlier, and in particular the process of gradual transition from such traditional forms, paper medical redundancies to modern, i.e. electronic forms. It is also an expression of the implementation of postulates formulated by the medical community. Doctors among the barriers that they believe have limited the process of disseminating this electronic form of sick leave have exchanged organisational barriers related to the time spent on providing health services, as well as barriers related to the availability of IT, computer equipment. This also limits the possibility of fully introducing this form of electronic sick leave. As regards the question, actually two questions which concerned financial issues, it can be said that the direct costs of introducing the Register of Medical Assistants to the Minister of Health will be PLN 2 million. That's the cost. adapting the IT system administered by the Minister of Health for the purpose of introducing the Register of Medical Assistants. This includes an amount intended to cover the cost of employment of six people who are involved in the creation of this Register of Medical Assistants. On the other hand, as regards the second part of the costs involved in the entry into force of the solutions contained in this law, it follows from what was not discussed. Namely, it is a solution, which is that for a period of a year, i.e. in 2019, this law provides for a reduction in the write-off to the Social Insurance Institution for the transfer of health insurance contributions to the National Health Fund. The statutory deduction in force today amounts to 0.2% of the amount of contributions paid by the Social Security Office, which is the institution collecting these contributions to the National Health Fund. The assumption is that in 2019 this deduction will be reduced to 0.175% which will leave the National Health Fund with an increase of 18 900 000. zł. This is what the National Health Fund is going to use to carry out its new task. The Act also provides for the extension of the tasks carried out by the National Health Fund in this respect to IT and computerisation tasks for the provision of health services. However, I would like to say that these are not all the costs involved in implementing the idea of appointing a medical assistant to life. Plus, there's the cost of training medical assistants. The impact assessment attached to the draft law assumes that there will be a need to train about 300,000. persons. These are only assumptions, because we do not know what group of doctors will decide to authorize medical assistants to issue medical certificates, and what will be the number of doctors who will want to issue these certificates themselves. So these are very cautious estimates. In fact, these estimates are based on the assumption that all doctors or all persons authorised to issue certificates of incapacity for work will decide to appoint such a medical assistant. We have about 150,000 such doctors in Poland. As I said, the assumption is that doctors will decide to authorize up to two people to issue such a medical certificate. The costs associated with training will be borne by the Social Insurance Institution and will be approx. PLN 180 million, and I also pay attention to the high caution in estimating these costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Law on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of disabled persons and the Act on public-funded healthcare provision. Computerization is one of the key elements of improving Polish health care. I am pleased that, despite the barriers encountered, due to good solutions, dialogue with the environments concerned and listening to their demands, this process is gaining momentum. An important part of the IT process are electronic certificates of temporary incapacity for work, which will start to apply from December this year as the only mandatory form of such certificates. Today's project predicts that not only doctors but also medical assistants will be able to issue such a certificate, i.e. medical professionals authorised by the doctor. Nurses, paramedics or medical secretaries. I am convinced that this solution will relieve doctors from administrative responsibilities, and thus they will be able to devote more time to patient examination or to a more detailed interview. The project also envisages introducing a number of solutions which, in my opinion, will translate into the safety of the proposed mechanism. Among them is the right to check the correctness of the certificates issued and the possible withdrawal of the authorisation for the assistant and the creation of a Register of Medical Assistants kept by the Ministry of Health. Information on authorised persons will be collected in the register and will be recorded, among others. Time limits issued by the doctor of the authorisation. I like the fact that the project clearly specifies how much and who will pay for the computerisation of health care services and training, as well as the fact that the Ministry, when designing new solutions, is based on already proven methods and existing components, which translates into considerable savings. However, despite the positive reception of this project, there are records to which I am not entirely convinced and according to which the legal responsibility for the consequences of the incorrect issue of a medical certificate by the authorised person shall be borne by the doctor who issued the authorisation concerned. I see no reason why the responsibility should not lie with the authorized person. Despite this doubt, I see a number of good changes that will result from the provisions of this law. Not just for doctors, but mostly for patients. About Free and Solidarni will support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u285	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities (prints No. 2793 and 2839). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Health Committee to submit to you a report on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities, print No. 2793. High Seym! Today, or actually on 11 September, and today, there were meetings of the committees on which this law was examined. Three minority proposals were submitted during the process. These three proposals were tabled by Mr Ruciński. I would like to stress that the bill has been adopted unanimously by the committee. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to accept print report 2839. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u287	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform. [[And where is Mr PiSu?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that the current amendment is a continuation of the changes introduced in 2017 as regards the remuneration rules for certain groups of employees of medical entities. This is a pull expected and very necessary. It will allow workers to earn this minimum amount in each treatment facility, including in this public entity, which has not so far been the case. However, the level of this lowest funding raises doubts. We are currently suffering in health care from a dramatic lack of workers, both doctors and nurses, also placed at this point other employees, including medical secretaries. In the provision of this law, as regards the amount from which it will be calculated at an already increased height of 58% The basis, however, comes so low that I'm afraid no medical secretary will want to hire for that kind of money. An article has also been added, which does not go very well with the Medical Rescue Act, but is also needed. In the case of entities that do not have contracts with the National Health Fund - because it is assumed that it is on the basis of a contract with the National Health Fund, not with additional funds, it will be financed - this increase in salaries is to be covered by an increase in service prices. And there's a question. If we raise the prices of services - actually this is a rhetorical question - will it not reduce the number of benefits that the hospital receives in terms of financial data? Nevertheless, the Civic Platform will support this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u289	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, print No. 2793. The most important change in this draft law is the extension of the scope of the subjective law of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical establishments for basic activities, other than those performing medical professions, which, within the meaning of the amendment, are persons employed as part of the employment relationship in a medical entity that does not perform a medical profession, which, however, carry out work remaining in connection with the provision of health services in the organizational cells of a medical establishment. According to the mechanism set out in the Act, the target amount of the lowest basic salary for the added group of basic activities with a labour factor of 0,53 cannot be less than PLN 2664 gross. This ceiling will be reached in 2020. At the same time, it should be stressed that the amended law regulates the level of the lowest basic salary, so it is more beneficial for workers than for the universal minimum wage law. Staff members of medicinal products shall be entitled to statutory salary allowances, which shall be calculated on the basis of the basic salary of the workers. Therefore, the increase in basic salary results in an automatic increase in wage-related income. Consequently, the full remuneration of a staff member employed in a medicinal entity, even if determined by the employer at the level governed by the law of the lowest remuneration, will normally not be limited to the amount of that lowest basic salary and may be much higher than it is. In addition, the project amends professional groups with numbers 7 to 9 in the Annex to the Act of 8 June 2017 on the transfer of nurses and midwives employed in positions requiring a Master's degree in nursing and midwifery, but not requiring specialization, from the existing group 9 to group 8. It is still very important that the draft law requires the implementation of the amendments introduced by the Act of 8 June 2017 in respect of increases in the basic salaries of basic workers other than medical professionals and nurses and midwives whose working rate will be increased with effect from 1 July 2018. Another important change is the introduction of a deadline by 15 June each year for the issue by the Head of the medicinal product or by the entity making up the salary increase arrangements. At present, the Act sets out the date on which the employer is required to increase the basic salaries of workers covered by the regulation. That period shall be 1 July each year. Before that date, an employer who does not agree with the trade union organisations or employees' representatives by 31 May will have to issue an appropriate order. However, there is currently no time limit in the Law for the adoption of that Order, so the introduction of the deadline for issuing the Order will improve the annual implementation of the statutory obligation to raise basic salaries. Finally, I would like to stress that this law ensures a systematic annual increase in salaries in the area of healthcare workers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask you to continue to process the bill and to state that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law presented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u291	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the time of the procedure for this draft law as in the subcommittee, as in the Health Committee, the matter of the basic amount has been raised on several occasions, from which the lowest health allowance will be calculated. Among other things, the social side has repeatedly claimed that the base amount of PLN 3900 will cause e.g. the fact that among specialist doctors after applying a factor of 1.27 the salary will be lower than guaranteed by the law. It will be less than PLN 6000, and another law guarantees this payment in the amount of PLN 6750. For this reason, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to propose an amendment to this bill, which will ensure that the lowest health allowance at the entry into force of this law will be charged from the average industry wage for the previous year, as the current law guarantees, from 2020. I would like to appeal to Members of the Law and Justice to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u293	Thank you. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think tonight, with the vote on this project, there's anyone in this room who's gonna press a button other than green. Increases in the whole health care system are necessary, workers earn too little, I think it's obvious for every patient. This is a small step, even you can say: less, step, in the right direction, but I do not understand on what basis the base amount of PLN 3900 was calculated as a reference to all conversions with coefficients. Second thing. As a former employer, I have to tell you one thing: if we apply a factor of 0.58, in the case of people who are employed in non-medical positions, this gives a gross salary of PLN 2262. With all due respect, but with the current deficit of workers in the labour market, it will be extremely difficult, and even impossible, with the labour costs that are in Poland, for such a low amount to find workers performing responsible tasks. It seems very reasonable to me to propose that the Member of the Civic Platform, who is going in this direction, should, as in the case of hospital directors, refer to a different value of remuneration, i.e. what Mr Pawłowicz has in his amendment, because it will simply be fair and clear. The amount of PLN 3900 is, so to speak, colloquially, as if from a hat. The second case on this bill; this was also noted by the Office of Sejm Analysis. There's a problem with definition. What do you mean by a basic worker other than a medical professional? This, in my opinion, will arouse some controversy and would require refinement. There is no indication in the bill - and even, I would say, there is a clear explanation in the explanatory statement - how the additional, say, funds, money that hospital directors will have to pay should come? I quote: "It will not result in the transfer of additional funds from the state budget and from the National Health Fund to healthcare providers in 2018. So now from the patient's point of view, I have the right to presume that this increase, which may not be great, but it is, will be at the expense of benefits for us, for patients. On the other hand, the table, which is often viewed by people interested, i.e. employees of the whole system, causes one very bad thing: conflicting medical environments. One specialization refers with an aversion to the other because it has a higher coefficient. In my opinion, there is a lack of such mutual dialogue in all of this, so that all these medical professions can be met and there is some consensus. I'm afraid, and I think I'm right that this bill will now initiate a wave of demands and protests from various medical professions. Soon, because in the autumn, we can expect that individual groups will force the governing raises. As history has already shown, such plotting by the rulers - this was also the case during the Civic Platform - had a very good effect on the various medical professions. They were arguing with each other, I mean nurses with other specializations, and then the government washed their hands and didn't take responsibility for a sensible policy. As I said at the outset, I can't imagine that any of us in this room could push a different button than the green button on this bill, because it's a step in the right direction. Like I said before, it's not a step, it's just a little step, but it might be next. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities has aroused many emotions since the beginning of the work. During the year since its adoption, it has been repeatedly discussed about the need to change it, and today we are debating its next amendment. This time, in addition to the coefficients, we are also discussing the addition of another group of professions whose remuneration is calculated on the same basis as other health professionals. This group is non-medical workers, without whom no hospital or other entity could normally function. The definition of their minimum remuneration in the same law for all other health professionals is a decisive step in the right direction. However, there is considerable doubt as to the amount of the coefficient set at 0,58. This coefficient multiplied by the amount included in Article. The law in force shall specify how remuneration shall be calculated by 31 December 2019. This gives a slightly higher remuneration than the minimum wage for work mainly this year. It seems that this has been pointed out by Mrs Bernadette Krynick and said to the Minister that this is a factor causing the lowest amount to be charged. Unfortunately, there is no hope that he will be elevated by any director. Let us note that, historically speaking, directors, who wanted to balance hospitals, their units, did not give up on a number of procedures, but first of all flattened the wage net. So counting on any pay being higher is rather illusory. This simple math shows that the pay situation of medical secretaries, paramedics or medical dispatchers will not change, and the noisy increases announced will rather be fiction. I also share the doubt of the Office of Sejm Analysis - the definition of a basic employee is not clear and can cause interpretation problems. The draft law also redefines the remuneration rate for nurses and midwives by diversifying the financial situation of those employed in positions requiring higher education and those employed in positions not requiring a Master's degree, even though they have this title or have completed their specialisation. The basis for calculating the remuneration is therefore the nature of the position taken and not the actual education. It's hurtful for those ladies who have decided to educate in the profession and have completed demanding studies. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the explanatory memorandum to the Act lacks information on the anticipated financial consequences for all medicinal products. The projector enigmatically writes about the cost of raising salaries from the NFZ budget. However, it does not indicate how they will fund from the central budget. I am afraid that entities that do not have a contract with the NFZ will increase the cost of services provided and thus many patients will be restricted to access to benefits. Despite all these comments to the project, the Modern will vote in favour of it, as it improves to some extent the situation of the most disadvantaged, while giving them the opportunity to start a dialogue with the Ministry on the revision of these remuneration rates. However, I continue to call for the verification of all the remuneration coefficients of health workers, since any subsequent amendment, if forced by protests from the various professions, paralyzes the work of medicinal agents and adversely affects workers' relations, not to mention the main recipient of the law, namely the patient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u298	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities, prints No. 2793 and 2839. Ladies and gentlemen! There's an election coming. There's an election coming up, and the PiS remembers the health care. The draft proposed by the government envisages a new way of determining the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. The most important change is the extension of the scope of the subjective Act of 8 June 2017 to basic workers other than those performing medical professions, which within the meaning of the proposed law are persons employed in the context of the employment relationship in a medical entity other than those performing a medical profession which carry out work which is directly related to the provision of health services in the organisational cells of a medical establishment whose activities are related to the provision of health services, and which are employed in the basic activities as defined in the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 20 July 2011 on the qualifications required from workers in the different types of workstations in non-business medicinal entities. Ladies and gentlemen! It is proposed to assign a labour factor of 0,53 to this group of workers, as we read in the explanatory memorandum of the project. In practice, this means that the lowest basic salary for this professional group will be PLN 2067 gross by the end of 2019 and that by the end of 2021 the basic salary of employees belonging to the added professional group will not be lower than PLN 2605 gross. Ladies and gentlemen! You think we're gonna criticize this. No, it's not. We're not gonna get caught up in the trap you're putting on us before the election. Ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, support this direction, but I will ask at the same time: Where are the promises of the Minister of Health for resident doctors? Where is the healthcare reform? And finally, where is the promised national oncology center? This, ladies and gentlemen, PSL locals are building oncology hospitals because the state does not provide adequate care for citizens. Where, ladies and gentlemen, is that all? At PowerPoint with Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Shame, ladies and gentlemen. Shame, ladies and gentlemen. Shame. [[After eight years, you've gone after...]] In one only voivodship, where you rule as self-government, in Podkarpacie, there is a hunger protest of nurses. Ladies and gentlemen! Several months ago the Polish People's Party prepared a program of repair of health services, so-called. A health pact. We count, we call on other political forces to sign under this pact. Reforms cannot be done within a single term and must therefore be signed by all political forces so that after the elections have been won there will be a continuation. The documents, ladies and gentlemen, are still on the table, which is why we call you and say, "I'm checking." The direction of the bill we're looking at is good. Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u299	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. There is no Member. The Member has submitted this in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the explanatory memorandum of the law states that no separate resources are foreseen to cover the costs of this regulation. In this case, I have a question: Is there an increase in the National Health Fund's financial plan for this year, as well as an increase in the expenditure to finance health benefits next year? As you know, personal costs are in the cost of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u301	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by thanking you because this is an important bill and I know she's expected by the employees. Ladies and gentlemen! During the process of this law, of course, there were such voices, even from the environments and representatives of the social side, that it did not fully meet the expectations, of course in terms of the height of these increases, but the direction - everyone emphasized it - is very good. Why? Because, first of all, it shows the prospect of a steady increase in wages among workers, because workers will receive increases each year. In this connection, I have this question: Minister, does this law eliminate the huge pay chimneys that appear among medical workers? Because we know very well that e.g. a secretary in a small district hospital earns remuneration at the minimum national level, e.g. in a big city this salary is much higher, which needs to be stressed. Is it true that this bill shows this minimum wage, the lowest, that salary below which the employer cannot [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remunerate your employee? However, of course, there is a chance that any employer can reward much higher employees. [[Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much.]] This is already a question of discretion and financial opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u303	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u304	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As Marek Ruciński said, the Modern will support the project you have proposed. It's a general remark. I believe that there is no comprehensive system solution in Poland. That is what Mr Kukiz was talking about15 about, that it will probably cause a queue, but it is difficult, somewhere you have to start making these increases. So I'm glad you're starting with the medical profession, because you can see that there's a very large drain of these forces from this job. On this occasion I wanted to ask: Do you predict that the result of these increases will be that medical workers will stop leaving Poland or even this profession? Do you think the increases proposed are sufficient for this? How much will it mean to raise in gold? That's because we're talking about indicators like this. They probably won't say anything to citizens, e.g. what is 0.57 etc., because it depends on many factors. How much will the average nurse and midwife make more money as a result of your changes? Have the increases you are referring to been the subject of a public consultation? Mrs April just said that they are expected. I'm sure it is. But did you, during this public consultation, talk about numbers, numbers? And do the proposed increases meet those needs of those employed in these professions? And last question: What are the sources of funding for these increases, i.e. which budget line will have to be the result of this increase, reduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u305	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, to answer questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u306	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that this law is amended after a year. As you know perfectly well, it was brought into legal order in August Ub. A number of increases have been made in health care facilities on this basis. After a year we analysed the situation, analysed various kinds of proposals that affected the Ministry of Health from the social side, as well as at the Social Dialogue Council we discussed the amendment of this law and this project was created. We are aware that this project does not respond to all the expectations of health professionals who have so far been poorly remunerated, but is a compromise between these expectations and the state's current capabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to individual clubs for supporting this bill, it is very valuable. I would like to thank all those who have worked on the amendment of this law. At some point, however, I was wondering whether this support is due to the fact that, as you say, it will result in large disparities in wages, large animosities between individual employees, whether you really do not support this law in order, as you say, to make it worse. But I believe in good intentions, and I believe that the state is really thinking about health workers and that is why you support this law. Allow me to address specific questions. Professor Chybick pointed to the low salaries of medical secretaries employed in health care. Yes, indeed. For many years, the weakest workers have been earning the least. They saved money: medical secretaries were fired, nurses were fired, chamber nurses were fired because health care workers were being saved. This law guarantees a minimum wage. It indicates that it will not be possible to save on the weakest. And I want to guarantee you that a medical secretary who has an average medical education, as a result of this regulation in 2021 will have a basic salary of PLN 3217. Of course, we add to that derivatives related to working conditions. If the same secretary, and we have many such secretaries in the country, has a higher education, her basic salary will be PLN 3670. This is a clear increase in wages. At the moment these workers have basic salaries often below 2000 PLN and this is supplemented by a compensatory supplement to the minimum national. The next question concerned the basic amount of PLN 3900. I would like to remind you that the bill was created in 2016, we prepared this project on the basis of the 2015 database and then this amount of PLN 3900 was the amount of the average monthly salary in the enterprise sector. And it was the amount that was accepted for the impact assessment. However, I stress that this amount is released already in 2019, which is the last year, this value will be the base amount. However, from 2020 onwards, hospital directors will already use a different basic amount resulting from the average monthly salary. As far as the definition of primary workers is concerned, we have already explained this at the committee meeting and the subcommittee meeting, but I will explain it once again. In the Act we cannot define more than 100, or maybe 200 professions that operate in the health system. There is a regulation of the 2011 Minister of Health on the qualifications required from workers at specific jobs, which defines the qualifications of a primary worker, an administrative and technical worker. The Act refers exactly to this regulation. There will really be no problem for directors of medicinal entities with the appropriate qualification of the employee, especially since they have so far been using this regulation, creating rules of remuneration in their workplaces. The next question was whether the measures were secured. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving away from this principle - and you are also paying attention to it - in order not to direct the dedicated resources to specific tasks in the health system. The National Health Fund finances health benefits. The cost of the benefit is also the cost of labour, and in these costs the funds are sewn up for remuneration. As regards the increase in expenditure on health services, I would like to remind you that the President of the National Health Fund issued an order on 4 September which amended the financial plan and increased the cost of purchasing benefits this year by PLN 1300 million. This is a specific amount that will affect the healthcare provider and can be used, among others. the effects of this regulation. Few of this, ladies and gentlemen, is planned next year to increase the National Health Fund's financial plan by further amounts and it will be around 3657 million more than we have in the plan this year... Three billion... [[650 million.]] More. Between the 2018 and 2019 financial plan, the difference is 3 billion. The plan for 2018 to be clear is 80 590 000 863 PLN. In turn for 2019 this is PLN 83 657 000 338. So that's the financing proposal. Clearly, there is an increase in expenditure on health care, which can be used, among others. to the effects resulting from this law. Therefore, we do not see the risk of reducing health benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! You know perfectly well, because the state has passed a law on the so-called. the hospital network that in most cases we finance hospitals on a flat-rate basis, so there are no over-executions or unexecutions at the moment. The hospital receives lump sums and grants health benefits. Therefore, there is no risk that these increases may reduce the availability of health benefits. The issue of remuneration and comparability of salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, so far we have seen a large gap in wages. As Mrs April said, doctors, nurses in different places of the country, in different medicinal products, were very different in terms of salaries. These differences were up to 100%. This law causes us to eliminate chimneys concerning the salaries of workers with the same qualifications working on the same jobs. This guarantees that weaker workers who have less power will earn comparablely with their colleagues working in other entities. Mr Ruciński referred to the remuneration of nurses, masters of nursing and raised the issue of specialisation and recognition of these specialisations. I would like to stress that an employee who has a Master's degree and specialization will be qualified in the same way, provided that he has a specialization that applies to health care, because if someone has a specialization that is not related to health care, he cannot be qualified to a higher class and will receive a correspondingly lower salary. So that there is no differentiation of particular medical professions here. Every employee with a Master's degree will have the same right to a minimum salary as a representative of another professional group. The next question was... Mr Jarubas has raised a number of general questions. I'd like to stress that... Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say that we are cleaning up after our predecessors, but I will give you a few examples. Last year we paid for all the over-executions that have been generated in the last 10 years, [[Applause]] That the previous government didn't pay. It was the Government of Law and Justice who paid for these over-executions and finally stopped these overexercisings behind health care facilities. We're the ones who passed the laws that sort out the health system. We introduce coordination and comprehensive care in health care. I could list many examples here, but these are the directions that the current government, the current Ministry of Health, is adopting in order to strategically approach and regulate, reform the current health system. It is also part of this reform to organise salaries that have been very complex. This law is about to bring down to the common denominator minimum salaries in individual medical professions in terms of employees who share the same qualifications. Mr Jarubas referred to the table, which unfortunately is not up to date, because today we are debating the report of the Committee on Health, which takes into account the amendments made during the work of the subcommittee, which Mrs April presented. Therefore, I am obliged to correct certain facts so that they do not operate in public space. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the minimum wage of an employee who may have basic or even basic education will be PLN 2916 in 2021. This is the basic salary, the lowest group, the lowest salary in health care. As far as the secretaries you have been asking about are concerned, their minimum basic salary we shape at the level of 3217 PLN, and as I mentioned, there are secretaries with a higher education in the system and they will have a salary of 3670 PLN. This is a matter of two years when our employees will reach such minimum wage levels. I no longer want to mention the others, where these minimum salaries, for example in the case of masters, regardless of the type of profession pursued, but with specialization, will amount to PLN 5278. These employees are guaranteed to reach the maximum annual amount to be reached in 2018. Mrs Krynicka asked if there was an increase in expenditure. I've already answered that question. Of course, the National Health Fund's financial plans clearly show an increase in health expenditure both in the previous year and in the current year. The next year's plan also envisages an increase in expenditure, so these measures to finance the impact should be sufficient. Mrs April's question is whether this law corrects these inequalities. I also answered that question. Mr Pudłowski asked, specifically, how much more will the nurse earn. I'll answer you: different. It could be that she's going to make 100%. more, or maybe it will not get a raise, depending on the level at which the salary was at present, because we also have places in the country... By preparing material, analysis for this project, we collected data from all over the country and it turned out that there are really large disparities. Nurses have basic salaries from really very low, up to 1,600 PLN, to basic salaries currently reaching 4 or even 5,000 PLN, so depending on which nurse we are talking about, the answer may vary. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you once again and ask the High House to pass this law, to adopt this proposal. This law is expected by the environment, especially since we see workers who do not directly participate in the provision of benefits, are not representatives of medical professions, but their role is invaluable, because they condition the smooth functioning of operating blocks, sterilization, but also administrative services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. The bill is another very important government project that will significantly improve the quality of medical services provided. Among the changes envisaged in the novel is the legal establishment of the lowest basic wage for non-medical workers of primary activity, i.e. Medical dispatchers, medical guardians, hospital paramedics and medical secretaries. This is a change that the environments concerned have been demanding for a year. I am therefore pleased that the demands on this matter have been taken into account by the government and that these professional groups, very often very well-educated and qualified people, have finally been recognised and their work appreciated. Equally important regulations included in the project are those concerning the remuneration of nurses and midwives employed at the workplace where specialization is required, regardless of the level of education and the completed course of studies. According to the entries, they will have the same working rate as nurses and midwives without specialization, which are employed in positions where a master's degree in nursing or midwifery is required. I agree with the designer that this change will contribute to the promotion of the training of nurses through higher education. In my opinion, the draft of this novel should be assessed positively. However, at the same time, I must admit that I am disappointed that the postulate for the inclusion of specialists in psychotherapy of addictions in professional group 5, which I referred to in the subcommittee, has not been taken into account by the Ministry. Like I said, it would be a proper appreciation for the work of these psychotherapists. In health care, we face many problems that have been growing over the years. Now something's starting to change for the better. Of course, I agree that this is a drop in the sea of needs. But this is unfortunately due to the shortcomings that the current government is systematically dealing with. About Free and Solidarni will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u309	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (Print No.2697). I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski to provide a justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Petitions, I have the honour to present to the High House a draft Print Act No.2697 which removes the so-called institution. a preliminary ruling concerning cassation actions brought before the Supreme Court in civil matters. The prejudice is that, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the law, a single judge of the Supreme Court shall decide on the acceptance or refusal of an appeal before the Supreme Court, and such a judgment shall in practical terms not require a written statement of reasons, since all of these grounds are virtually identical. Thus, such a judge has a large and uncontrolled authority in no way, giving a decision to accept or refuse to accept a cassation action to be heard, which is not subject to action. The law seems to confer excessive powers on the judge to the extent indicated. High Izbo! One person's authority of a Supreme Court judge who doesn't even have to explain in detail why a cassation action has taken or not led to pathology. The Minister of Justice, who is at the same time the Attorney General, has probably known for many years the investigation of a corruption case in the Supreme Court, which consisted in the fact that an influential businessman arranged to allow himself a cassation complaint in the Supreme Court. The record of the conversation is: God, this deletion is ill-written, on the threshold of rejection. Such discussions and such attempts to corrupt the Supreme Court were possible due to the fact that the Supreme Court is currently examining cassation proceedings with total freedom, single-personity and practically without detailed justification. High Seym! The basic principle of anti-corruption is that many eyes should never allow one person to decide that, as far as possible, others should look at his hands. The one-man power of a judge is the great power, the power to decide the fate of people, their property, their lives, and it is very dangerous. The initiative of the Committee on Petitions aims to change this. We want a proper, decent procedure for handling cassation complaints, so that they are dealt with in full seriousness. The argument that such a change will fall into the Supreme Court's avalanche of cases is frivolous. The impact of cassation complaints to the Supreme Court, several thousand complaints per year, is comparable with the impact of cases on the average size of the district court, and the Supreme Court does not conduct evidence proceedings, does not question witnesses. So let's not get ahead of ourselves. That the Supreme Court will be pinned down with an avalanche of cases that will affect him. It certainly won't stay, and even if it stays, let's ask ourselves whether this is about the comfort of the judges' work or justice. After all, if it turns out that the Supreme Court is too small to accept all cassation complaints, then the Supreme Court will have to be enlarged, because justice is not for the court, it is for the justice. High Izbo! I ask that the draft submitted by the Committee on Petitions, which restores fundamental fairness and fairness in dealing with cassation complaints in civil matters, be addressed to the legislative work of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much, Marshal, thank you very much, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law tabled by the Committee on Petitions amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No 2697. This proposal concerns changes in the rules governing the handling of cassation complaints by the Supreme Court. The aim of the amendment is to eliminate the so-called "deficiencies." the institution of the pre-court, i.e. a preliminary review of a single-member cassation complaint at a private meeting, where very generally formulated criteria decide on the acceptance of a single-member cassation complaint. It's an art. 398 c.p.c. These basic conditions are an important legal issue in the case, and it is also an interpretation of rules which raise doubts, or the existence of discrepancies in judgments, that the proceedings are null and void and that the cassation action is not justified. The project therefore calls for the identification of three-person complaints without pre-court. The proposal also eliminates reform ruling by the Supreme Court, repealing the Article. 398 Code of Civil Procedure, which was not properly justified in this project. We have the opinion of stakeholders for this project, among others. The Supreme Court's opinion, which points out that, in the absence of a pre-trial ruling in 2000, more than 8 000 were due in the Civil Chamber. cases to be dealt with, several years of proceedings in respect of a cassation complaint have taken place. When a pre-trial is introduced, I will remind you that these pre-trial orders were not immediately justified, only since 2007, exactly from 16 June, after the entry into force of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The so-called complaint could also be considered. horizontal, i.e. in the composition of three judges, as is apparent from the opinion of the Supreme Court. This is a complaint against the order to refuse an action or to rule on a pre-trial hearing of three judges rather than one. The Opinion of the Supreme Bar Council - in favour of the abolition of the pre-trial procedure, the Opinion of the National Judicial Council - against the abolition of the pre-trial procedure, as this would paralyze the actions of the Civil Chamber, the Public Prosecutor General - against the abolition of the pre-trial procedure, but it also takes into consideration the identification of three-members and calls for a corps of specialised agents who would only have the right to lodge a cassation complaint. There is also the government's position on this matter. The government is in favour of leaving the court. He points out in his opinion that it should contain a full justification, with which, you know, there are problems, because sometimes these justifications are very laconic. Of course, it also claims that there will be a significant increase in the number of cases affecting the Supreme Court in the absence of such a pre-court. There is also the question of excluding from the competence of the Supreme Court the powers of substantive examination, i.e. to deliver a reformation verdict where this project is taking it. Finally, it should be stressed that the Council of Ministers in its conclusions of 11 September does not recommend carrying out further work on the Commission's draft law on amending the law on c.p.c., on the Code of Civil Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u313	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. In particular, the proposed change involves repealing the so-called institutions. Prejudice. The reasons for these changes indicate that the institution is mainly based on discretion. It has been stressed that three of the four conditions which decide to accept the action are assessed and whether they have been met is decided by a single Supreme Court judge by issuing a non-complainable decision which does not require justification. It should be noted that in the explanatory memorandum, the designer does not state the arguments against the institution of the pre-court itself, but only the negative assessments relating to its functioning. Similar conclusions can be drawn from the opinions that have been received in the project. The very functioning of the institution of pre-court does not raise any serious doubts about the institution, so if the project is directed to further work in the committee, the question should be answered: Are there any changes and if so, what should be the scope of these changes? It should be borne in mind that the deletion is an exceptional measure and the right to a court may be subject to certain limitations in its examination. In addition, it should also be considered whether these changes would not lead to an extension of the period of the cassation procedure due to the increase in cases to be identified. A wider debate is certainly needed to answer these questions. Another change proposed by the designers is the exclusion of the possibility for the Supreme Court to give a judgment on the substance of the case, as well as the repeal of the judgments and the rejection or termination of the proceedings. These proposals have no reasonable justification. First of all, they can lead to an extension of the procedure. The Supreme Court rarely gives reform judgments. This is the case where there are no circumstances which could support the annulment of the judgment and the referral of the case to be re-examined and at the same time allows the dispute to be brought to an end, which reduces the duration of the proceedings. The changes made will therefore lead to practical difficulties and will not bring any benefits. The proposed changes are highly controversial and, as I stressed earlier, require deeper reflection. Given that the proposed amendments are the reaction of the committee to the petition addressed to it, we are in favour of referring the draft to the committee in order to make a fair assessment of them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u315	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, on behalf of Kukiz,15, I have the honour to present the club's position regarding the amendment of the act concerning the cancellation, i.e. the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree. First of all, I wanted to thank the petitioner. I also wanted to thank the Committee on Petitions. And I am surprised that this case has not been dealt with by the Justice Committee, because it is the Justice Committee that should have a broad discussion on this subject. I would like to point out that, even in the opinion of the Supreme Court concerning this printing, this issue is raised, the Supreme Court itself acknowledges that some changes could be made. We are well aware of the prejudice in civil matters. The point is that, first of all, by 2007, one sentence was written - that the complaint was not suitable and goodbye. Later, as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, duplicated justifications are written, as Mr Wojciechowski confirmed here. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself am the victim of a civil cassation complaint and I will tell you what it looks like, how it will lead to the reopening of the proceedings, because that was the case in my case. The Supreme Court judge has ruled that it is right to examine what and how the forgery of files and documents in the Bank of Silesia took place, after which the same judge, already single-membered, i.e. from the pre-cassation, said that the complaint was inadmissible and that the appeal court, which recognized it, had not verified it at all. And as usual, Minister, the devil is in the details. Well, I told you yesterday that you didn't pay any attention to the art. 51 in the Code of Misdemeanor. You referred to this as an individual case, and this is the main topic in the abuse of power by the city guards and the police. It's the same here. The appeal court also does the same in criminal matters. When he gets his file back, he doesn't follow orders, he goes back to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court takes it. That's what it looks like. So it's a normal fiction. This is normal fiction, what you're doing. I think so: the assumptions themselves and the project themselves are good in this respect. I'm missing one on this project. If the Supreme Court withdraws the order and returns it to the appeal court, the appeal court should be required under the threat of disciplinary action to investigate the case in the light of the Supreme Court's guidelines. And that's the point, ladies and gentlemen. The whole mess in this state of ours, the bi-instance, is that once this goes through the appeal court, it's between the Supreme Court and the appeal court, and it doesn't work. It doesn't show up, and that's where things get done, and that's where those sentences go down. I myself am the victim of the theft of 100,000. Dol. by such conduct of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal. It's said here there will be bigger queues. Yes. It is in the justification of the project that it will not increase the queues, but I agree that it will increase the number of cases. There is only one question - I ask you this - do we want justice or time? Do we still want unfair judgments, or do we want cases to be dealt with in law and in order for the citizen to feel fairly treated? I'm surprised. Mr Wojciechowski of the PiS refers to this proposal on behalf of the committee, assessing it positively, and Mr Matusiewicz, Vice-President of the Justice Committee, views it negatively. I've been wondering what the PiS is gonna do about it myself, and I know what you're gonna say now, because I know what the government thinks. But you're wrong. You want to reform the justice system, reform it with your head. We will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u317	Thank you very much, sir. Marshal Barbara Dolniak made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position as part of the first reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, contained in print No. 2697. The main objective of the proposed law is to enable the Supreme Court to examine in substance any formal cassation action, without prior review of the action in the form of so-called. a one-man pre-trial procedure based on the very generally formulated criteria for the acceptance of a cassation complaint as set out in Article. 398 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code Act. In the event of the substantive handling of cassation actions, the only acceptable decision in the event that the Supreme Court considers the action to be justified should be to set aside the contested decision and refer the case to the competent court for review. And so, High Izbo, you can determine the purpose of this bill. Of course, as we had the opportunity to see during the presentation of club posts, the sentences will probably be divided, but we think that because this is a petition proposal, it should be allowed or we should give the project a chance to at least be carried out or subjected to a legislative process within the committee. Therefore, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would recommend that the High House direct the project to further work within the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u319	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are, of course, strong arguments for the abolition of pre-trial proceedings, and there are arguments against the fact that the queues will extend, the procedure will extend, fewer cases will be dealt with, and the arrears will be greater. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, something for something. However, if we want fair judgments, the conditions must be transparent, transparent and such that there is no possibility of abuse. The conditions are that when one man makes decisions. Therefore, the argument which Mr Wojciechowski put forward and which was pointed out by the applicant and the committee, the petitioner's argument, is right. However, I would like to talk about another aspect of the issue. Well, we've been making laws for three years, we've been amending laws on justice -- and this is about civil proceedings in the Supreme Court -- and after three years, ladies and gentlemen, I have this growing belief that we're creating chaos rather than ordering things right. The justice system is an extremely complicated system and such a single catching of elements without taking a holistic view, without considering where the causes of the wrong functioning of the courts are, leads us astray. And the reasons are that it's common courts that do not work. The common courts are a mess. And why do they work like that? You have to answer that question. And here in this House, there has never been such a debate. What are the reasons why judges in Poland give such bad sentences, are so impunityless? In my opinion, one of the reasons is that the path leading to the practice of a judge is fatal, that it is not a profession at all, it is a public authority, and the judge becomes after the appointment of the minister, after finishing the application at a Krakow school, which I think is some intellectual and systemic freak. The point is that only because of education can an important position be taken by a judge, that is to say, to exercise judicial authority. There's nowhere in the world for a 29-year-old to be a judge because of his education, without checking his character, without life experience. I mean, this is totally ridiculous. We've been skipping it for three years. We reform the judiciary, and we don't pay attention to such an important element that judges should be elected in accordance with the Article. 4 directly by the nation or by representatives that there should be a jury that should be a judge of peace. Yes, the President has the right to appoint judges as a representative of the nation, but he has absolutely no right to dismiss them. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. The president has no right to cancel them. And now we see, under the pretence of reaching the retirement age, he appealed to the Supreme Court judges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is another fully appreciated initiative of the Committee on Petitions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. An important problem of a single citizen has been raised, a problem which he has faced, i.e. a questioned lack of transparency in the rules on the handling of cassation complaints by the Supreme Court. And this is one of the problems that should spend your sleep with the eyes of all those who are demolishing and paralyzing the Supreme Court, and in no way leaning on real challenges, solutions that would bring tangible benefits for every single citizen. Because the problem raised by such a citizen is an indication that the cassation action will be rejected or accepted by the Supreme Court for consideration or review. I am not questioning in any way the provisions of this project, but I would like to ask about the doubts raised which indicate that this project is going in the opposite direction than all pan-European trends. Minister, I have this question: What is the opinion of the Ministry in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u323	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to respond and refer to the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First let me present the position of the government and then answer the question of the Member. This debate, which took place in the High House, explained what was being put forward. It's about eliminating the so-called. a preliminary ruling, which is intended to enable the Supreme Court to examine in substance any formal cassation action, without this preliminary one-man review and on the basis of very generally formulated criteria for the adoption of a cassation action. The second issue in this project is to limit the catalogue of admissible decisions of the Supreme Court, i.e. an indication that, if the draft were adopted, the only acceptable decision would be to consider the cassation action as a legitimate revocation of the contested decision, to refer the case to the review, while today, in the current legal state, it is possible, albeit limited, to reform ruling. The Council of Ministers adopted its position, which was finally on 7 September, which did not recommend further legislative work on the project, based on the following considerations. Firstly, it concluded that a cassation complaint cannot be treated as a third instance. Our constitution doesn't require a three-instant procedure. The role of the cassation and Supreme Court is different from that of two courts in the general court. Thus, in proceedings before the Supreme Court, these special arrangements apply, including the pre-trial institution, which is in line with the arrangements in the European countries and the recommendations of the Council of Europe, in which national restrictions on access to the Supreme Court are approved. Of course, this is not motivated by the fact that limiting the admissibility of additional review of judgments is a value in itself, but is a value from the point of view of the efficiency of judicial proceedings and the reality of the control exercised by the highest instance. We have experienced this, as Mr Matusiewicz referred to when we had thousands of outstanding cases in the Supreme Court. This queue was so large that it was in fact necessary to ask ourselves whether, in fact, we are dealing with the real control of judgments of common courts by the Supreme Court. It's changed. Currently, the Supreme Court is quite efficient in identifying cassation complaints, although this causes various kinds of doubts, which Mr Wojciechowski pointed out as a representative of the applicants. It is, in particular, this one-man composition, this one-man decision of the Supreme Court closing, in fact, when it is refused, the way to review the ruling of the General Court by the Supreme Court already in the context of the recognition of the cassation action. We also negatively regard as a government the assumption of a project which provides for the exclusion of the powers of the Supreme Court from substantive judgment, i.e. the amendment of a final judgment in the event of recognition that the cassation action deserves to be taken into account. Of course, we understand the motivation behind such a proposal to somehow offset this potential increase in the burden on the Supreme Court, but ultimately for the entire justice system the ruling of the Supreme Court is positive, because it ends the case and does not lead to another court having to bend over again after a casatorial ruling, repealing the case. I would like to emphasise, by concluding this part of the speech on the presentation of the government's position, that it is not that the government does not see the shortcomings that exist today in this area. We see them. It is a question of rethinking the whole formula of the cassation complaint, whether the one we have today is correct or whether we should consider changing it. There will certainly be appropriate work in this area, perhaps also legislative work. The submission resulting from these analytical work may be in the High House. However, these shortcomings are much more than the fact that there is a prejudice. There is a single-person composition and some judgments, and in particular their justifications, may be harmful, because they are quite template, uniform and actually constitute an appearance of justification, not a justification in reality, because little is apparent from them. The Ministry of Justice, the government sees all these shortcomings, but there is still a question of the admissibility of the cassation action due to the value of the subject matter of appeal. Is that a good idea? Or should we consider a change or even an elimination? There is a question of what decisions are subject to cassation complaints. It's been said for a long time that it would be good if, for example. Family matters, at least to some extent, were subject to review by the Supreme Court, because this lack of control results in a settlement of case law at this highest level and problems in the functioning of common courts, which form a layer, because there is no such authority of the Supreme Court, those statements that come from the very top and in some way serve to standardize. All these issues are ahead of us. We certainly do not forget the shortcomings of today's legal situation, but the government's position is negative in view of this particular proposal. As far as the question is concerned, this is indeed not just our problem. The problem of the chronicity of judicial proceedings is a pan-European, and eastern, and western, and central European issue. Rather, a few countries enjoy such efficient justice that no one is talking about chronicity. Any project which imposes an additional burden on the courts, including the Supreme Courts, is rather a project that goes against the tendency to simplify, accelerate, create conditions for courts to settle cases as soon as possible, including the courts of the last instance. But, of course, there is a question of weighting values here, because it is obvious that this project can cause and will cause additional burden to the Supreme Court if it is accepted, but perhaps it has a chance that these Supreme Court rulings will also be better, they will enjoy greater public acceptance. Balancing these values is the hardest thing here. We will certainly work on this regardless of the fate of this particular project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u325	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 2697. The draft law concerns the abolition of so-called institutions. Prejudice. However, it should be pointed out that the justification for the project does not contain arguments against the institution itself, but only negative assessments related to its functioning. They rely on misconceptions as to the content of the laws in force, the Supreme Court's judicial practice and do not take account of the nature of the cassation procedure. Consequently, the conclusions based on the above mentioned above are also defective. the grounds, both for the extent of the changes needed and for the solutions proposed. Contrary to the assertions made by the projector, the functioning of the institutions of pre-court and the possibility for the Supreme Court to rule on the substance of the case do not raise such serious doubts as to justify their complete abolition. The Supreme Court, in recognition of the cassation action, is not the third court. It does not recognise the case, but recognises the cassation action in the public interest, clarifying the relevant legal issues by interpreting rules which raise serious doubts or create divergences in the case-law of the courts or by deleting decisions given in proceedings which are invalid or, of course, defective. It requires a clear indication that the cassation action is entitled to a final judgment which is effective and enforceable. It is therefore only in exceptional circumstances that such a decision should be amended by means of exceptional legal measures. The operation of the solicitor-radical coercion in cassation proceedings causes that the conditions for accepting a cassation complaint for recognition, which seems too general, are not perceived by professional lawyers who have a procedural experience. Moreover, the rich and uniform case law of the Supreme Court constitutes invaluable aid in this regard. A reference only to the wording of the provision of the Article. Paragraph 398 (1) of the Code of Conduct, without an analysis of the caselaw clarifying the normative content of the phrases used in that provision, cannot give rise to an assessment of the functioning of those provisions. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly confirmed that the right of access to a court may be subject to certain restrictions when considering the annulment, the existing constitution establishes the principle of duality, and the scope of the cognition of the Polish Supreme Court is very wide compared to the regulations in force in other countries. Contrary to the statement in the explanatory memorandum that the proposed law will not have any economic or financial impact, including the financial impact on the public finance sector, it should be noted that the implementation of the project will significantly extend the time of the cassation procedure due to the increase in the number of cases to be investigated, which will also increase the number of legitimate claims against citizens arising from the length of the procedure. Such a request shall be justified if account is taken of the functioning of the Supreme Courts in those countries of Europe in which the institution of pre-court has not been introduced. However, according to information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2017, the average waiting time for the substantive investigation of the case was e.g. in the Civil Chamber - 9 months. After the changes the uncertainty period will be even a few years. The proposal not only provides for the winding-up of the pre-court, but also deeply limits the scope of the Supreme Court's judicial review by eliminating the possibility of reforming under Article. 398 c.p.c. (by deleting this provision completely, as well as by modifying the construction elements of the cassation complaint referred to in Article accordingly. 3 k.p.c.) whether the Supreme Court's ex officio consideration of the lack of positive procedural grounds (deletion of Article. 398 c.p.c.). The actual reasons for deleting these provisions do not explain the justification for the project. I omit here the statement from page 3 of the statement, which would indicate that it is an element which reduces the burden on the Supreme Court by judicial action - because there will be no longer any need for substantive judgment. This assessment does not appear to be supported by an analysis of the indications in the form of statistics and substantive studies, but, above all, by a deeper understanding in the structure and concepts of civil procedural law. In many cases, the liquidation of the court will not result in an increase in the percentage of cases in which the judgment under appeal or the decision on the substance of the case is annulled and the case is referred back to the competent court. Unreasonable complaints will still be dismissed, albeit at a much greater cost. It could be possible to improve the reception of the pre-court by requiring the Supreme Court to rule on this matter in place of a single judge, i.e. in the same composition as the cassation action is currently being dealt with. However, this requires analysis and substantive discussion. Sloppy changes never lead to anything positive. According to information from the activities of the Supreme Court for 2017, the shortcomings of legislative activity are particularly evident in the case of codes, and in particular the Code of Civil Procedure, which gradually loses its readability and consistency, becoming a combination of often random, non-systematised norms that cause more and more problems of interpretation and practicality. This issue was also raised in the information for 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u327	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (Print No. 2769). I ask Senator Alexander Swede to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the Code of Civil Procedure Act. The proposed amendment aims to bring the law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017, i.e. Act SK 31/15 declaring non-compliance with Article. 778 of the Law of 17 November 1964. The Code of Civil Procedure insofar as it allows the court to grant the enforcement title issued against a public company, a declaration of enforceability against a former partner of that company, which was not already a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in which the enforcement title was issued against a public company, in Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. as regards the infringement of the right to a properly shaped procedure, Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. as regards the deprivation of the possibility of defending the property rights of the former partner and Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland as regards closing the road to court. It is therefore necessary to adapt the system of the right to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, even if the enforcement title designates a different type of partnership than a public company. The recommended solution consists, first, of the addition in Article. 778 second sentence as follows: This does not apply to the person who, at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company, was no longer its partner, and, secondly, to the provision that proceedings for a declaration of enforceability against a partner partner, a limited partnership or a limited partnership initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation shall apply to proceedings for the award of a declaration of enforceability against a partner of a partnership, a limited partnership or a limited partnership initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation. 778 in the wording of the draft amendment to the Act. The bill is to enter into force after 14 days. The project was widely consulted and their opinions were presented by: Attorney General of the Republic of Poland, General Bar Council, Ministry of Justice, National Federation of Restructuring Advisors and Syndicates, Association of Polish Banks, Supreme Court, National Court of Justice and National Chamber Council. They were mostly positive opinions. They were raised in them, among others. the argument that this amendment will have a positive impact on entrepreneurship as it will reduce the risk of shareholders of a personal company arising from the business activity, so-called. the legal risk, since this regulation excludes the possibility of giving a declaration of enforceability against the person who was no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company. Therefore, the former partner of a personal company bearing responsibility without limitation in all its assets for the company's obligations if the execution against the company proves ineffective, as well as when it is obvious that the execution will be ineffective, will not be deprived of the possibility of defending its property rights by judicial means. The opinion of the National Federation of Restructuring Advisors and Syndicates, which issued a negative opinion, considered that this was too far-reaching interference in the legal situation and is detrimental to creditors, was an exception to the views of the parties consulted by this amendment. However, this opinion was more polemic with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal than with this amendment. On the other hand, at the meeting of the Senate committees, the opinion of the Public Prosecutor General and the amendments proposed therein were examined, but the committees did not take into account the suggestions of the Public Prosecutor on the grounds that a representative of the Ministry of Justice had rightly indicated problems which might arise with the adoption that a former partner of a personal company should act in proceedings against the company in the form of a side action. Furthermore, a representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that since the date of publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the courts could not give a declaration of enforceability against the former shareholders of the companies which were made public under Article. 778 Code of Civil Procedure, therefore listing such a company in the wording of Article. 2 is not necessary. In the Senate, first joined committees: Legislative and Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions adopted by unanimity 15 votes in favour of the proposed amendment at their meeting on 5 June, followed by a chamber higher on 29 June at its 62nd meeting with 72 votes in favour and 5 abstentions adopted an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is unacceptable, from the point of view of the right to court, that there is a dispute between the creditor and the debtor at material level, the creditor requests that the dispute be settled before the court, and not only does the debtor not have the opportunity to take part in legal proceedings, but does not know at all that such proceedings are taking place. The settlement of the dispute between the company and the creditor has indirectly shaped the legal situation of the debtor, in this case the former shareholder of the public company, without his knowledge and participation in the process. Among other things, this amendment is intended to counteract such situations. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I request the adoption by the Sejm of a uniform bill annexed in print no. 2769 amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u329	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in print No. 2769. As the senator said, the draft is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017 (sign. Act SK 31/15). In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that it was incompatible with the Constitution of the Article. 778 Law Code of Civil Procedure to the extent that it allows the court to grant a clear declaration of enforceability against the former partner of that company, which is not already a shareholder, at the time of the initiation of proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the public company. The Court found that this article, this provision, was incompatible with the Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Indeed, it must be accepted that Article. 778 thus far significantly restricts the right to court to that partner, who was no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings against the company. The whole amendment at this point consists in adding the second sentence to the provision of the Article. 778 in the wording that this provision will not apply to a person who, at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company, was no longer its partner. I think that settles it. The proposed regulation is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and at the same time effectively excludes this non-constitutional provision from legal trading in so far as it has been challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. In this situation, of course, I propose, on behalf of the club, that the project be directed to further legislative work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u331	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u332	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act aims at adapting the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court held in its judgment of 3 October 2017 that Article. 778, in so far as it allows the court to grant the enforcement title issued against the company a manifest declaration of enforceability against the former shareholder of that company which is not already a shareholder at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the public company, is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As stressed by the Constitutional Tribunal, it is unacceptable from the point of view of the right to court that, at a material level, there is a dispute between the creditor and the debtor, the creditor asks the court to settle the dispute and the debtor is not only unable to participate in legal proceedings, but does not know that such proceedings are taking place at all. The settlement of the dispute between the company and the creditor has indirectly shaped the legal situation of the debtor, in this case the former shareholder of the public company, without his knowledge and participation in the process. The proposed law therefore includes arrangements to adapt the content of the Article. 778 to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, as also noted in the comments received in the project, the proposals do not address the problem of distinguishing between former and current shareholders of private companies in the rules of redress. As a platform, we will, of course, be in favour of directing the project to further work, because on the one hand, it is necessary to adapt the rules to the judgment of the Court, and on the other hand we believe that a solution should be developed and how to safeguard the interests of creditors in the event of a real change in the company, to ensure the safety of trading. The question must be answered as to whether such regulation will not impede the enforcement of claims held by creditors in respect of public companies. But we would like to answer all these questions during the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u333	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present our position. It will be brief and unambiguous. This is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. We fully support this change and will vote in favour of referring it to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u335	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats on the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in print No. 2769. As the previous speaker, I would like to stress that the draft goes against the indications set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017. Despite its imperfections, it should go to work within the committee. There, together, we would try to find solutions, eliminate the shortcomings that the project undoubtedly contains. However, it does not interfere with the fact that, as I said, this project is addressed to the committee, and behind it the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party is in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor and ask a question? No. Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Okay, so I'm closing the discussion, and we're finishing this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u338	The position of the club Modern in relation to the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, print no. 2769. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the modern club in relation to the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 2769. The aim of the project is to adapt the system of right to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3.10.2017 by amending the Article. 778 c.p.c. The project concerns a situation of ineffective execution against a personal company. To date, the general principle was that, in the event of failure to enforce such a company to be liable without limitation for its obligation... i.e. the company's creditor may enforce his claim directly from such a partner on the basis of a judgment against the company. According to the draft, this principle remains unchanged, however, in such a way that it will not be possible to grant a declaration of enforceability against a former partner who is not already a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against that company. In the opinion of the club Modern solutions go in the right direction. The Modern Posel Club will be in favour of directing this project to further work Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u339	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in print No. 2769, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 49 hours 17 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski on the 100th anniversary of his birth (prints no. 2803 and 2821). At the same time, I wanted to warmly welcome the delegation of the Golgotha Eastern Foundation, the closest collaborators of Fr. Peszkowski. Welcome back, folks. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisława Peszkowskiego on the 100th anniversary of birthday, prints no. 2821 and 2803. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading on 30 August 2018. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 11 September 2018, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. In the course of the work on this project, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which Mr Piotr Uruski represented, very minor amendments were made, introducing a clarification, i.e. the word "pralat" after the word "priest," and adding the name, adding the coat of arms, i.e. after the amendments, the text is "Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski." Following a brief discussion, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously adopted the draft resolution with 18 votes in favour. High Seym! Fr. The prelate Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski is a special character. I would like to refer here to the famous poem by Zbigniew Herbert, whose passage I will quote: "How difficult it is to identify the names/all those who died/in the fight against the inhuman authority/ (...) we are nevertheless the guardians of our brothers/we must therefore know/count carefully/call by name/bead the road. And this is the watchman of our brothers, the watchman of the East Golgotha, the watchman of those who were murdered by the Soviet authorities, by the Communists, the watchman of the victims of the Katyn crime was Fr. Prelate Zdzisław Jastrzębiec-Peszkowski. Therefore, I think that it is not only the law, but even the duty of the Polish Sejm to commemorate this steadfast priest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u341	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u342	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisława Peszkowskiego on the 100th anniversary of birthday, prints no. 2803 and 2821. Zdzisław Aleksander Peszkowski was born on 23 August 1918 in Sanok. He took part in the September 1939 campaign. From October 1939 to May 1940 he was in a camp in Kozielsk. From there the last transport was transported to the camp in Pavliszczew Bora and further to Griazowiec, so that he did not share the fate of 20,000. Polish officers and officers murdered by the NKVD. After the formation of the Polish army in the Soviet Union, he took command of Company 1. The Ulanów Krechowicki Regiment in the Second Polish Army Corps. After the evacuation of the Polish army to the Middle East, he was decommissioned for scouting work. In India he prepared Polish children rescued from the Soviet Union and young people for life in the region. After returning to Europe, he started his studies in Oxford and then joined a Polish seminary in the USA. On 5 June 1954, he was ordained priestly. He also studied at universities in Wisconsin and Detroit and at the Polish University of Foreign Affairs in London, gaining a PhD in philosophy and master's degree in theology. In the year of the anniversary of the 1000th anniversary of the baptism of Poland Fr. Prof. Dr. Zdzisław Peszkowski was elected President of the Polish American Historical Association. From 1983 until his death he served as the head chaplain of ZHP operating outside the country, i.e. in Europe, the USA, Canada, Argentina and Australia. He actively worked for Polish culture. He published more than 100 items in the field of theology, history of Poland, literature and philosophy. He was the author of textbooks for learning Polish language and culture, textbooks for education, teaching, prayer and antology. However, in the memory of Poles he was mostly a preacher of truth about Katyn's crime. He repeated many times: I have saved myself to bear witness to the truth. To this end he founded the Golgota Eastern Foundation, conducted scientific research, participated in exhumations in Katyn, Kharkov, Miednoje, developed several books about Katyn, organized conferences and celebrations. From 1993 until the end of his days he was a chaplain of Katyn families and families murdered in the East. Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski received numerous national and foreign awards, among others. The Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland and the Golden Medal of Gloria Artis. For years working for Polish culture and science and showing the way of truth, reminding the world of the Katyn crime, he well deserved Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of this great Pole by a special resolution of the Polish Sejm will be an appreciation of its merits and devotion to the due homage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club in relation to the resolution on commemoration of the Fr. Prelate of Zdzisław Peszkowski on the 100th anniversary of his birth. The person of the Prelate deserves to be remembered. The story of his life is unique: Boy Scout, soldier of the Polish Army. After the attack of the Soviet troops on Poland he was sent into captivity, happily did not share the fate of Polish officers murdered by the NKVD in the Katyn crime. He was a soldier of General Anders' army, with whom he made his way to freedom. It can be said that Katyn was miraculously avoided, which in the later post-war period had a very strong impact on his actions. He advocated the truth about this crime in the United States and Poland. He repeatedly said that he had survived to witness to the truth. Founder of the Golgota Eastern Foundation. He spent much of his life in emigration in the United Kingdom and the United States. He was a chaplain of the Polish Scouts Association outside Poland, a chaplain of Katyn families and murdered in the East. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u345	Thank you, sir. The rest of the statements - in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u346	Position of the club PSL-UED in relation to the resolution on commemorating the memory of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski on his 100th birthday. 100 years ago, on August 23, 1918, Zdzisław Peszkowski - Boy Scout, soldier of Anders' army, Catholic priest, chaplain of the Katyn family was born. He dedicated his life to recalling that genocide. He spoke about himself: the chaplain of the Golgotha of the East, spreading a metaphorical expression relating both to the Katyn crime and other crimes in Poles on In the 1939 defense war, he was an officer of 20. The U.S. Regiment. General Władysław Anders passed the entire route with the Second Polish Corps. Then there was college and a PhD in philosophy. And the late priesthood (l954) as a votive for saving. He was a prisoner of Kozielsk, who miraculously survived death in the Katyn forest. In his youth he was a Boy Scout and remained a Boy Scout for the rest of his life - during the war, and then as an emigration chaplain of the ZHP outside the country and honorary patron Hufca ZHP of his native Sanock land. On 26 January 2006, the Polish Parliament adopted a resolution officially supporting the candidacy of Fr. Zdzisława Peszkowski for the Nobel Peace Prize. The explanatory memorandum also mentions that, in addition to the efforts to preserve the memory of the victims of Katyn's crimes, the Prelate priest, the former Soviet prisoner and Katyn's future victim, has been active in the spirit of Polish-Russian reconciliation for years. The Prelate died on 8 October 2007 at the age of 89. He rested in the crypt in the Pantheon of Great Poles in the Temple of Divine Providence in Warsaw. PSL-UED supports the resolution on commemorating the memory of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski on his 100th birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u347	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block today. I'm declaring another five minutes' break. [[Adjournment from 18 a.m. to 18 a.m. 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State (prints No. 2797 and 2819). I ask Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, no. 2819, on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the borders of the State. The aim of the project is to modify the definition of a veteran, which will allow for applying for veteran status for persons who have been on shorter missions than the existing law provides for. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm on 30 August this year. addressed this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 11 September 2018, requests its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the presidential draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State, contained in the Parliamentary Printing No. 2797, as well as the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State, contained in the print No. 2819. As the rapporteur said, the presidential project entered the Marshal's staff on 13 August this year, and its first reading took place on 11 September, namely yesterday. The Members present at the meeting of the Joint Committee have not tabled any amendments. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in their report in print No 2819 requested the High House to adopt a draft law as notified by the President of the Republic of Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this proposal, as the adoption of this amendment to the Veterans' Act on Action beyond the borders of the State consisting mainly of modifying the definition of a veteran seems fully legitimate and does not raise any dispute. This is a law needed because the original wording of the article. Point 2 (1) of the Act of 19 August 2011 setting out a set of persons who could be considered as veterans of activities outside the State, did not take account of the cases of persons taking part in these activities on the basis of a total referral for a period of up to 90 days but whose one-off participation in these activities did not exceed a period of 60 days. These people may have felt hurt and treated worse by Poland, on behalf of which they participated in these activities outside the borders of the country. This negative solution had to be changed. In addition, in order to replace the Office for the Protection of the Government of the State Protection Service, officials and this formation involved in activities outside the State had to be included in the group of veterans and possibly veterans injured in these activities. It is important to express gratitude to the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, his National Development Council, which is a consultative and advisory board with the President, as well as to the veterans themselves, who were the first to notice the problem, seeing their fellow soldiers taking part in foreign missions even several times, who were deprived of the status of a veteran of activities outside the borders of the state, and thus the powers conferred by this law not by their own fault. We therefore call on all clubs and parliamentary circles, parliamentary clubs and non-members to support this law and not only to give due recognition, but also to determine the powers and access to them as large as possible to a group of soldiers and officers who, on the basis of referrals on behalf of Poland, participated in activities outside the state within the framework of a peace or stability mission, a police quota, a Border Guard quota, in the framework of fulfilling the protective tasks of the Government Protection Office and the State Security Service or ensuring the security of the State continuously for the period for which the persons concerned were directed there, but not less than 60 days or for a total period of not less than 90 days. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the presidential bill amending the Act on Veterans of Action beyond the State's borders contained in Seym Prints No. 2797 and 2819 and will vote in favour of the adoption of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of expressing my position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club on amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State's borders in print no. 2797. The Act was already expected by the veterans and their families, and was adopted on 19 August 2011 on the initiative of the former President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Bronisław Komorowski, as a government project of the Civic Platform and PSL. It provides, among other things, that 29 May is the Day of the Veteran of Action outside the borders of the State. This law also clarifies the veteran status, the rights of veterans and their families, the terms and conditions of use of these rights and specifies the level of funding for the costs of staying in veteran homes, the conditions and modalities for granting Veterans' assistance and financial assistance for learning and social rights. These are just some of the powers that this 2011 law has clarified for the purposes of veterans who have been on missions outside the country. Thus, we, as a society, as a government, paid our debt of gratitude for their attitude in defending their homeland and our allies. I would also like to point out that it was a good thing - as in parallel to the proposed amendment by the President of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence created a controversial concept of amending this law, which, among other things, was. provided for veteran soldiers to be mirrored, and which was supposed to project on whether they could apply for a stay in a veteran's home, and also on the basis that they would be based on a rigid limit of 30% of the health damage that would be the basis for, among others, the veteran's home. to free rehabilitation tours - we are very, very glad that the Ministry of National Defence, having listened to the voices of the veterans and their families, as well as the opposition, withdrew from this controversial concept of changes in this bill. The Civic Platform Club takes into account the fact that the proposed amendment serves the case, because in addition to the current criterion of 60 days of continuous service, it is proposed to add a criterion of a total of at least 90 days of service, and this period will be determined as a result of the summing up of service periods outside the country, and is worthy of support, because many soldiers have been on missions several times after twenty days or 30 days, for periods not exceeding 60 days, and often could not receive this status. We believe that since these missions are not so intense and so long now, they are shorter and more frequent, it is appropriate to support this amendment and the Civic Platform club as much as possible, standing in the position that this is for veterans and soldiers who are fighting on missions, in defence of our homeland and our allies, this amendment will be supported. And let me mention that this is a special time, a special year, a 100-year anniversary of independence, and we are all the more pleased that we can express our gratitude to the veterans. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the amendment of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u353	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u354	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the amendment. And because I know that my colleague is in a hurry to attend the committee meeting, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Club The modern one will also vote in favour of this amendment. In fact, it's a very short bill. We are very pleased that there is a possibility that man will be a veteran in total after 90 days of serving abroad. I only have two sentences. I talked to the veterans. We're gonna have veterans coming, but there's not much going on. They'll get veteran ID, but the proposals are that there's nothing going on, except they're going to increase their number. These are some of the things you've been fighting for for a few years. I would like the government, however, to take care of the veterans and that these people actually have some rights in this regard. Today, because you're a veteran, there's not much to it. But the Modern Club will, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u357	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u358	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats welcomes the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland with regard to the submission of a amending act on veterans of action outside the borders of the country. The proposed law clarifies the question of persons who have taken part, on the basis of referral, in activities outside the national borders in the framework of a peace or stability mission, a police quota, a Border Guard quota and tasks of the State Protection Service continuously for the period for which they have been directed, but not less than 60 days. This also applies to rescue groups of the State Fire Department. These solutions are crucial because they clearly stand for a veteran as a person who participates in the activities within the framework of quotas, missions or rescue tasks of the National Fire Service groups for a period of not less than 60 days. Until now, a person on missions and quotas could not be regarded as a veteran for a single period of less than 60 days. The intention of the head of state is to amend the article. 2 point 1 of the Act by introducing an additional way of determining participation in activities outside the borders of the State enabling the applicant to apply for veteran status. In addition to the current 60-day continuous service period, it is proposed to add a criterion of a total of at least 90 days of service. This period will be determined as a result of the summing up of periods of service performed outside the national borders. Such a solution will allow for the extension of the rights resulting from the Act to foreign mission participants who have repeatedly participated in activities outside the country but, due to the nature and needs of the mission, their duration did not exceed 60 days. It should be stressed that, at this stage, it is not possible to accurately estimate the financial impact of the proposed change, but, as has been pointed out, the financial impact on the scale of the state budget will have a marginal dimension. It is noted that the draft law does not provide for a change in the scope of the benefits to veterans of activities outside the borders of the State or the sources and means of financing them. The Polish state should take special care of those citizens who often at risk of their lives, in separation from their family, serve the country outside its borders, and surround them with help and care. The proposed law will also have a positive social impact and sound, in particular for those covered by this amendment and their families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My club respectfully, with understanding and appreciation, takes the President's initiative, especially since it concerns not merely honoring, but simply the duty to take care of officers sent for the most noble purposes beyond the borders of our country. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats strongly supports the President's initiative and advocates the adoption of the committee's report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. You are the first question asked by Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am addressing the representative of the applicant, which is the representative of the President. The question is, there's something here that I'm attracted to. In the Mother's Act it was already accepted that a veteran - I will speak in general, time is little, we know who it is - may be a person who took part in the mission for a period of not less than 60 days. Point 2 states: the rescue group of the State Fire Service, for a total period of not less than 60 days. Now we add - of course rightly - those who have participated in several missions, but we tell them that they must be there in total not less than 90 days. If it were to be considered a total of 60 days, it would be simple, no one would feel harmed, they would all be treated equally. Please answer: What are the indications that this group - those who have broken this period - are headed for missions, go on missions several times - must be punished [[♪ The bell ♪]] 90 days, not 60 days? I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask you if there's work to be done on increasing the care of veterans. Of course, this change is going in the right direction, but it happens when we hear that veterans are not surrounded by such great care as we would like. And let's not fool ourselves, foreign missions, often megastressing situations, but they mark the psyche. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Minister Paul Mucha, Secretary of State of the President's chambers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Tadeusz Wozniak's question, I will say that this particularity of the rescue group It is already included in the Act today, and this, however, is related to the characteristics of this service and this mission. This distinction, which was originally made, according to consultations and work that lasted as part of the activities of the National Development Council, also consultations with the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... Here everyone agreed that this was a privileged situation, as Mr Aptly pointed out, in the sense that it had not been possible to sum it up so far - except for the rescue group of the State Fire Service - but now for those involved in these peace, stability or quotas it will be possible and this does not mean for those who were covered by point 2, some kind of in-minus change. They retain their powers as they were originally expressed, while the specifics of the service, the specifics of rescue activities undertaken by the rescue group of the State Fire Department is different from the specifics of shorter trips, and this was the conviction of the professionals who discussed on this subject within the National Development Council, and as I said, also during the consultation it was suggested that such a distinction should be preserved. [[Yeah, only everyone would be treated equally.]] In our view, the solution in the proposed version is correct. With regard to Mr Paul Szramka's question, of course, the debate that began at the President's Palace, resulting from the President's leaning over the issue of special care of the state towards veterans and their families in general, is a lively subject, this discussion is taking place. I have this knowledge, I have no authority to speak for the Ministry of National Defence, but I know that there are some conceptual work going on there on these kinds of solutions. The President's initiative is, as was well said here, a point change, certainly positive, certainly beneficial, expected by the veterans' environment. Thanking you for all these kind voices of support, I would also stress that it is not so that you can fully agree with such a voice that there is no catalogue of permissions at all, because we know that this catalogue is included in the law today, and we are simply talking about a certain change in terms of definition. And the purpose of what you have submitted to the President is simply to modify the definition of the possibility of applying for veteran status to persons who are on multiple shorter missions than the current Act of 19 August 2011 on Veterans of Action outside the State. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the revision of the definition by introducing this additional way of determining participation in activities outside the borders of the State enabling the application for the status of a veteran, while also aware of those work that have been - and I would like to thank you very much - successfully carried out, for this unanimous support at the first reading at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, I will allow myself, once again, thanking you for understanding the needs of the veterans, on behalf of the President, to ask you to pass the bill as proposed in the committee's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u365	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 25 hours 19 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 2838. [[Game in the O.R.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted an opinion on the candidates for the Ombudsman, print No 2837. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child. There are applications, formal applications. Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, one of the greatest soldiers of the underworld of independence - Colonel Zbigniew Matysiak, ps. Cowboy. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Born on 26 March 1926 in Lublin. Boy scout, soldier, political prisoner, cyclist, racer. During the occupation, Zbigniew Matysiak belonged to the secret boxing section led by Stanisław Zalewski. From 1943 he was a member of the Lublin conspiracy group, since March 1944 - in the National Army. In 1945, he was sent to the branch of Romana, a group of the Samoo-defense Army of the Home Army of the silent Major. Jerome Dekutowski's dams. Arrested in 1946 and convicted by a military court. He's in custody on the street. Short in Lublin, in prison in Lublin Castle, in prisons in Sieradz and in Mokotów. In important matters concerning the homeland - the principal one, in everyday life - kind and humorous. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's celebrate his memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u367	The formal proposal is submitted by Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm request that the sitting be adjourned until the new voting system is installed. For the past two years, you've been trying very badly to install a new system. So? You're disassembling the old one, you're assembling the new one, you're disassembling the old one, you're disassembling the old one over and over again. How can we be sure that the old system is still working after so many transitions? Yesterday, techs were running around with screwdrivers and making amends. You want to build a Central Airport, you want to build drones, you want to build ferries, you want to build electric cars, when your incompetence is that you can't even change the voting system. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! I have a question for your marshal: How much does it cost for a Polish taxpayer? Honestly, I wouldn't even give you a watch to fix. As it turns out, on all fronts you take us back 20 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u369	I believe that 20 years ago, formal proposals were taken more seriously, Mr President. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In this case, ask the Sejm Chancellery, she will answer you on these technical issues. There is a request for deferral and I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adjourning the sitting, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] 388 Members voted. 154 votes against - 224 and 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Modern Posel Club has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers for: social activities and activities undertaken during the period of the Polish Parliament of the protest of parents of adults with disabilities, which caused a lack of opportunity to meet protesters in order to find a solution to the socially important problems faced by people with disabilities and their carers. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda by the point I quoted earlier, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 179 voted against - 218, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We would like to return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the borders of the State. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2819. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2819 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 406, against - no one, with two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2631. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2631, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. There were 395 votes against - 3 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2816-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Jurgel to present this report. [[I will report to you, Marshal.]] No, no, you are Mr Krzysztof Jurgel. Please. [[No, I am, Marshal.]] [[He can't.]] [[Voice from the room: There can be no one else. Rapporteur for the committee.]] Sorry, it was a technical error. Mr Zbigniew Dolata. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on farmers' cooperatives, print No 1425. Seven amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission, after considering them on 12 September, recommends that the High House reject all amendments and vote in favour of the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u371	Thank you, sir. I would like to remind you that in an additional report, the committee is proposing amendments that we will be voting on first. Let me remind you, it's print number 2816-A. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the draft law, applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment to this law, the bill that is expected by the Civic Platform, is designed to provide that farmers providing mechanization services are exempt from income tax on persons and from this activity, and the aim is to ensure that legal entities that enter in accordance with our proposal are also exempt from that tax. The point is that the equipment is very expensive, individualally there is not much, and it should be used. Many companies always buy with a certain allowance and here you should use it. It would be a waste if we didn't use it. Minister! You had a separate opinion on the committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think you'll be able to sustain them today, but to our advantage as farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u373	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 183 voted against - 218, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 of the draft law, the applicants propose a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We all care about those who care about agriculture so that these cooperatives are accepted by farmers because we have a bad climate. The legislator therefore proposes a minimum membership period of 1 year. We propose, due to experience, that this minimum period should be 2 years due to knowledge of the issue. We can argue, but we think, we are convinced, and we are sure that 2 years this is a balanced, thought-out proposal for this law. Minister! I know you also voted the opposite on the Committee on Agriculture. Did you vote as you should today? I'm asking for it, and we're asking for it. You care about that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u375	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 151 voted against - 258, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 8th draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, if I walk into that bleacher so often, I think I'm gonna like you. This is a very important amendment that can undoubtedly reconcile the fact that this bill, this bill, will fail. It cannot be that legal entities may enter this cooperative of farmers who are not, but when they are to enter the supervisory board - absolutely not. What is the reason for the legislator, the designer, to behave like this? After all, representatives of legal entities are generally people with a very high level of governance, organisation and knowledge. They can only help with their advice, with their experience of cooperative farmers. Minister! Stay away from me. I'm asking for a bold entrance to this bleacher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the answer to that question. Is that in accordance with international law or not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u377	The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Ardanowski, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are probably all convinced that the cooperative form of cooperation between farmers is very important in agriculture and that Western Europe also uses it widely. Therefore, in this law we give new legal opportunities for farmers to create cooperatives. Cooperatives, which are private property of farmers and are in the management of farmers. All these amendments, which Mr Ajchler is proposing, which were also discussed at the committee meeting, are intended to force farmers to make certain provisions in the Statute, and it is the statute in a democratic organisation that determines what forms of cooperation will be and what legal principles on the basis of which farmers voluntarily join this cooperative. The principle is also that farmers form cooperatives of farmers and may be invited to this cooperative by legal persons who are useful to them in carrying out certain tasks. We believe, and I am convinced that the farmers' cooperative should continue to be managed by farmers. That is why I believe that farmers should sit on the supervisory board that controls the management board. On the other hand, those of whom Mr Ajchler speaks: professionals, specialists, managers may be members of the board who will be controlled by the board of directors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u379	Thank you. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 145 voted against - 263, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant proposes to delete paragraph 13. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Minister! I would also like to refer to your previous statement. We want to have one cooperative in Poland. And the farmers, and the ones that are now. This cooperative isn't farmers? There's farmers, too. Let us not divide these co-operatives into co-operatives of better, new change and worse, because this is the worst that can be. This amendment is crucial. [[Applause]] Imagine that the applicant causes such a situation that, when he is removed, he or she is excluded from the cooperative, for whatever reason, he or she may have regulated activities excluding him from his or her compulsory and non-mandatory claims. If any of the beneficiaries, potential candidates, learn that being excluded, has no right to participate, they will automatically not want to be part of such cooperative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a fundamental amendment, Minister, and absolutely, if you do not change it, it will not affect it, it will be a strategic mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u381	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u382	And this bill will go to the trash.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u383	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 142 voted against - 245, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording to the addition of point 16 in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on local taxes and charges. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This is also a key amendment, very serious. The whole of Europe is based on cooperatives, agricultural Europe. 95% all agricultural turnover in Denmark is produced by cooperatives. 70% turnover - the most commodity production - in France it is produced by cooperatives, by communes, does not irritate anyone. We need money in Poland. There's nothing you can do without the money. Also money for incentives, Minister, in the case of real estate taxes. This cannot be created and encouraged by farmers, just like in other countries. It is impossible in this historical climate, in this climate that we have at the moment in the cooperative, where Poles are individualists. There must be encouragement, otherwise there will be no success, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as this bill is concerned, and you will be responsible for it, and you will be responsible for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u385	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 170 voted against - 234, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 24a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment is also about a very important thing to respect and sanction the current production cooperatives. And the content of this article would be the following: The subject of the agricultural activity of a production cooperative is the running of a joint, multi-family farm and activities for members and other agricultural holdings. Who works there? Camels, donkeys or rams? Not to offend these animals. No, that's where people work, families. They do not work differently than individual farmers, except they have a much better organisation of work, they work better, more efficient. You know that agricultural cooperative in Poland is a panacea of 90% the problems of our fragmented agriculture. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal to you with great request that you accept this amendment after all...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u387	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u388	...because she's fundamental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u389	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 241, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There is a question before the vote on the whole, Minister. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a quick, simple question. What provisions are not in the current cooperative law that would create farmers' cooperatives? There are modern regulations, based on this law, we can also create cooperatives for farmers. You are convinced - and we all know that this is the best form, but it is difficult to implement. Why are you creating a new law, a new law? I don't see any new solutions here. Would you like it to be just yours as a PiS new recipe and just so it is? The existing one is a respect for the work of many Members and Senators of the past period. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us respect the law and the existing members of the cooperative, it will be fruit in the form of new members of cooperatives and new cooperatives. Let's respect it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u392	I'm asking for your answer, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u393	The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Ardanowski, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This cooperative is a voluntary association of unlimited numbers of people to carry out joint business activities. Cooperatives are indeed among the most preferred and best performing forms of agricultural activity in Europe, and they have a long tradition, which had its origins also in Poland, because it was to Poland that those who wanted to learn cooperativeness in the times of partitions in the 19th century came. That is why we are very strongly supporting the creation of cooperatives, including by farmers. He has, of course, the right to ask all the questions he has asked, once again, received comprehensive answers in committee. However, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that farmers also created cooperatives to save themselves from exploitation, to save themselves from Germanization, from russification. They established economic activity - in many regions of Poland, in all partitions - although no one helped them in this matter. Now we hear that special forms of encouragement need to be applied, giving money to create cooperatives, which is why we are creating such incentives by this law. [[Applause]] Can you imagine better incentives than the exemption from income tax by a cooperative which operates in agricultural trade, in agricultural processing, and at the same time exemption from property tax, all real estate: buildings, buildings and squares intended for this activity? [[Applause]] Are there any other additional forms of support needed? This is a huge support which, I am convinced, will make many farmers want to pursue this form of joint economic activity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u395	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] But you haven't been quoted, I'm sorry. Were you quoted? [[Voice from the room: No, no, no.]] That quote slipped my mind. Here you go, in corrigendum mode. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u396	Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't have dared come to this bleacher if my name hadn't been mentioned. Minister, I didn't get all the answers. Before I received the most important questions, you came out - certainly because of serious responsibilities - from the agricultural committee and authorised your deputy minister, who was groaning as if he had eaten cheese. [[Applause]] We didn't know whether he was entitled to such an answer or not. You know well, Minister, that families work in cooperatives, that there is a better organisation of work in cooperatives, that it is necessary to encourage cooperatives, because Polish farmers are individualists, have problems with collective work, do not know how to use these simple tools. Who's gonna encourage them? The government must encourage them. And how does the government do that? He's building a new law. What new law? This law doesn't bring anything...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u397	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u398	...in relation to the old law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u399	Mr President, this is rather polemic...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u400	Minister, this is the way things are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u401	...not to correct a misunderstood statement. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2816, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 263, against - 127, with 23. The Sejm passed a law on farmers' cooperatives. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2822. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2822 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 369, against - 25, with 21. The Sejm passed a law on the Postgraduate Medical Center. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on employee capital plans. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Izabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Senior economic security is very important, long-term savings, capital market, its development is important. But there are two problems. First of all, you can't oversee the capital market. The proof of this is the GetBack scandal, which is the PiS government's case, which has been deceived by a few thousand people for 2.5 billion. [[Applause]] And there's the second problem - you can't invest. No private investor wants to finance your sick projects: CPK, millions of electric cars. That's why you want to take billions of zlotys out of the pocket of a Polish employee and employer. And why don't they want to finance it for private investors? Because the rate of return is going to be negative. We will not allow future Polish pensioners to be robbed and therefore we will vote against this project, i.e. for rejecting it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u403	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I have questions mainly for the Prime Minister, because I understand that he is behind this project. And the question is, what debt is paid to financial institutions with this idea. Well, that's what's planned except that he's already destroyed a whole bunch of investment funds, and so on, which makes him have to give it up now. In other words, the money of our pensioners will be given to financial institutions. What causes you, Prime Minister, to decide to raise money from normal mortals and to finance the government budget deficit with this money? There should be no deficit at all, especially when it is so good in the economy, and here it turns out that the pension money we have to finance this deficit. And the third question. Why couldn't you walk along this road like the trade unions suggested? Employees can organize themselves and collect their own money, just let them. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u405	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! There's no... Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The law in this form is absolutely unacceptable, but we want to talk about the pension security of Poles, especially in the face of the hungry pensions you gave them. However, it is unacceptable to finance from the hard-earned savings of Poles of unprofitable government investments, which is exactly what you want to do. It's a simple way to get no pensions in the future, especially the extra ones. You don't have any money for the Prime Minister's ideas, so you're trying to trick the Poles into them. The Central Communication Port and other similar government inventions, you know, are supposed to be big, but when they're profitable and if they ever make a profit, you don't know. You want to finance your ideas, finance them with your own money, not with the money of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And since you don't have your own, you come up with extra laws like that. There's no permission to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u407	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u408	Minister, I have a question of why, despite many substantive and valuable criticisms from the opposition, and we have many thoughts about the fact that this law requires further work and many changes, the opposition totally denies and rejects this project that deserves work on it? [[Applause]] [[The rhetorical question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u409	The question to the minister is, why does the opposition completely deny it? Minister Nowak wants to answer? No. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2811, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 156 voted against - 255, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, published in print No 2811, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I don't hear any objection... I said the word "objection." There's an objection. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I object and request that the bill be submitted only to the Public Finance Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u411	Mr Waldemar Andzel objected, which means there is a proposal... [[Waldek, that was a very brave speech.]] ...directions to the Public Finance Commission. In that case... [[Game in the O.R.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [[What about the social policy committee?]] There is a proposal and this proposal must be voted before we move on. We are voting on this proposal. I remind you that his rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to two committees. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of referring this bill to the Committee on Public Finance alone, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote 228 against - 190. The motion has been accepted. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the Agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2788. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2788 as a whole, please raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 6, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. We are returning to item 10 on the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017 together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. I would like to remind you that the Commission for State Control recommends in its opinion not to accept the report on the activities of NIK presented by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017. Members have asked questions. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it right to reject the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber? This is an evaluation of over 1,700 employees. [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I have some quiet, please? Because I can't concentrate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u413	I am silent, my fellow Member. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u414	But the room... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u415	Oh, it's for you. Please listen carefully to the question asked by the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u416	May I have your attention for a moment, please? This is the assessment of 1,700 employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, including 1,100 controllers. Ladies and gentlemen! 28 of our Parliamentary committees gave a positive opinion on the reports and reports submitted by the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would therefore like to ask: Is the opinion of one committee with a strong grotesque argument right in this situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u417	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u418	High Izbo! The NIK report was wrong about the allegations against the President of NIK. So I'm showing and explaining. The report is a serious state document, a synthesis of 1050 inspectors, 110 inspections planned, the same number of ad hoc checks. I would like to inform you that 26 Sejm committees have supported this document, and I don't think you want it now. I would like to say that the party which has been sentenced to three years' imprisonment in its ranks should consider the allegations that there is a connection [[♪ The bell ♪]] between the work of the President of NIK and the operation of the Chamber. You didn't make it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u419	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u420	...to prove this relationship. Just show me one example. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u421	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the report in print 2726, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 209 voted against - 190, 8 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We would like to return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2815. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u422	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! This law is only a mitigation of the effects of ASF, and ASF is still spreading around Poland and nothing will stop it, not even Vistula. Will intervention buy-in be launched in connection with the project? What is the certainty that breeders will have a place to sell meat? After the last special act of 2016, farmers had problems selling meat and there were no recent studies, no consultations. Second, we also know that the Veterinary Inspection is underfunded and has huge staff shortages. Are you going to do something about it, Minister? Before veterinary inspection there is a lot of work, and without money inspection there is no chance to stop ASF. We need to finance the Veterinary Inspection. What are you gonna do about it, Minister? Thank you. [[Applause bell]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u423	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2815 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 411 against - 3, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on public-funded healthcare provision. The additional report shall be in print No 2823-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Elizabeth Duda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u424	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Health Care Benefits financed by public funds, prints No. 2823 and 2773. At its 68th meeting on 13 September 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 2823 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendment at its meeting on 13 September, asks the Sejm to accept the amendment. The amendment regulates the provisions necessary to include the symbol of the cause of disability and consequently the type of illness, in particular mental illness. The provisions shall specify in detail the time limit for lodging the application for the certificate and the procedure for issuing it. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy 23 votes in favour and asks the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u425	Thank you, Member. We will vote first on the minority proposal and the amendment set out in the additional report. In the only minority application, the applicant proposes inter alia. add Article. 2b in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. There are no questions, right? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 191, against 221, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 4a to the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! My question is who will issue these quite extended disability certificates and about the illness of people with disabilities. Can you imagine, as it is included in this Act, that at the moment 150 thousand. Will the doctors be able to actually cede it to their medical assistant? How do you practically imagine that? The bill is, of course, very necessary, and I have concerns about the technical implementation of this law, about who will do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u427	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 418, no one was against, no one was against it, no one was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj, Kukiz Club15, asks the whole question before voting on the whole question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think this is the ninth amendment of the Act on Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Of course, this is a need for an amendment, because once again we are correcting the provision on bad disability rulings. This time it concerns a non-constitutional provision as regards the protection of private life law for persons with disabilities. Benefits. You cannot pay well-targeted benefits. People with disabilities go to committee a few times to get any benefits because it's not enough to go once. Minister! Once again from this speaker I ask the question: Where after 3 years of state power, after 8 years of diagnosing and being in opposition, after many promises is the proposal to reform the disability system? All this trouble, these modifications, they're just patches. Adding money to the hole system is just pointless. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u429	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 2823, along with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on public-funded healthcare benefits. We return to the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2839-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna April to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present an additional report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities, print No. 2793. The Sejm at its 68th meeting of 13 September 2018 pursuant to Article 7 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2839 to the Committee on Health for consideration of the amendment tabled at second reading by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The Health Committee, after considering the amendment at its meeting, asks the High Sejm to reject the amendment. The Commission recommends to the High House that the printing report No 2839-A be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u431	Thank you very much. We will vote first on minority proposals and amendment. Minority requests 1 and 2 and the amendment was tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicant's laws propose that the words "work done" should be added to the word "qualifications." We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 192 voted against - 223, with one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment, applicants propose to repeal the Article. 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 234, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, applicants propose a different wording of points 7 and 8 of the Annex to the draft law. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving the attractiveness of medical professions is most appropriate. We propose to amend points 7 and 8 of the annex, so that for nurses with more than 300 thousand, no Master's degree is required, only higher Bachelor's degree, or first degree. Always a higher education counts from the first degree. Why do you want to deprive a bunch of nurses who often work for 20, 30 or more years, of the opportunity to benefit from these higher salaries in recent years before retirement? Today, the average age of nurses is over 50 years old and I realise that this will be a very attractive profession for young people. But what will be the situation in hospitals, where older nurses, with a lot of experience, will not be able to benefit from higher salaries - the Minister, as director of the hospital in Brzesk, should know very well - and the young people will earn 2 000. More? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u433	Thank you. The Minister wants to answer? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.]] There you go. The Deputy Minister of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u434	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By adopting this amendment, we would automatically transfer nurses with a Master's degree without specialization to a lower group, i.e. it would be detrimental to this group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u435	We're voting. [[Corrigendum.]] No, the Member was not quoted. [[The Minister has misled me.]] We're voting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Member was not quoted. Mr President, there are Members' statements. Please state your views in the post-vote statements. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 191 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 1a to the draft amending act. The question is asked by Marek Ruciński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the third minority proposal, which we are proposing, I will only quote the main part of it and ask you a question. During the training period, the nurse or midwife shall receive from the training body a salary equal to the minimum salary for the work referred to in the Act of 10 October 2002 with a minimum salary for the work from the Labour Fund. I don't know if you're aware of what nurse training looks like today and what mode it is. They're going through it. They usually receive these trainings as part of their free leave, sometimes as part of their holiday. This is quite often the reason why nurses and midwives give up training. My question is therefore: Wouldn't it be better if we, potential patients, were treated by nurses and midwives with appropriate qualifications and training? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u437	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 227, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole draft law, the Members shall ask questions. Member of Alice Chybick, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I very much regret that both the amendment and the three minority proposals have been rejected, because the whole of the bill is for patients and that the medical staff will make more money will make the patient better care. In particular, I cannot understand why the average in the national economy was not considered as the basis for calculating this remuneration, but the 2015 average was adopted. And so it will be this year and next year. Nevertheless, the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this project, because any money that will be left to health workers at the moment will work well for patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u439	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, Prime Minister Morawiecki only tells the truth when he makes a mistake. Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko only tells the truth when he is wrong. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] She cheated you just now. I would like to say very clearly that in order to benefit from the 1.05 indicator, you need to have a higher education, we propose a bachelor's degree, and specialization. If there is only higher education without specialization, it will be 0.73, and if it is average, it will be 0.64, and if it is average with specialization, it will be 0.73. Minister, it's a shame to lie in front of the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u441	Uh... Yes. We're coming... Does the Minister want to answer? There you go, Minister Rat-Jelly responds. Actually, it's not questions. It's just... I don't even know how to put it. [[Findings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u442	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr President, I know very well what I am saying. If you are preparing the draft amendment, prepare neatly to reflect what you are thinking. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Point 8 of the Annex to the Act concerns nurses or midwives who have obtained a degree in nursing or in the field of health care, or nurses with a professional degree in nursing or midwives with a degree in midwifery. On the other hand, you propose the following wording: nurse or midwife with a Bachelor's degree in nursing or obstetrics with a specialty. They're not included in the graduate nurse's proposal, so I'm maintaining what I'm saying. On the other hand, I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a system regulation which was prepared after an analysis of the functioning of this law during the year. It reflects the expectations of the social side. We have analysed the conclusions of the directors, the social side, trade unions, employees and we have decided to prepare this regulation. This regulation is followed by specific measures that were provided in the budget of the National Health Fund both last year and this year, and also in the financial plan for 2019. There are specific measures secured to implement this law, which will be transferred to medicinal entities in the form of increases or lump sums for hospitals or an increase in the valuation of outpatient medical benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u443	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2839 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 419 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on how to determine the lowest basic salary of employees engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and the Act on amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I withdraw my motion to reject the bill at first reading. Therefore, this project will be examined in the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u445	Well, in that case, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz withdrew his application on behalf of the notifiers. So, based on the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We would like to return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of Fr. Zdzisław Peszkowski on his 100th birthday. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2821. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 410 voted against, no one voted against, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemoration of Fr. The Prelate of Zdzisław Peszkowski on the 100th anniversary of his birth. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child (prints 2795 and 2837). High Seym! According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act on the Ombudsperson for the Rights of the Child, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsperson for the rights of the child with the consent of the Senate. Ms Ewa Jarosz, Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński and Mrs Sabina Lucyna Zalewska were nominated for the position of the Ombudsman. I inform you that Mrs. Sabina Lucyna Zalewska has withdrawn her candidacy. The formal proposal is submitted by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit this request before we proceed to the next point, to the point concerning the appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child. The Children's and Youth Sejm is a game, but it has a deep political dimension, which we can define as an indoctrination of children in democratic ideology, the production of thought stereotypes designed to demonstrate the unalternatity of the democratic system. High Izbo! This is the question to the president of the PiS Club: Who said these words? Wasn't that until yesterday your candidate for Ms. Lucyna Zalewska's child's attorney?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u447	Mr President, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u448	September 27th will be held... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... The Children's and Youth Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u449	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not submitted a formal application, so I urge you, and I call you back to order. [[And I draw your attention to the fact that...]] I ask that Mrs Magdalena Kochan speak in order to present Mrs Ewa Jarosz's candidacy as proposed by Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor Ewa Jarosz was born on 11 April 1963 in Ruda Śląska. In 1987 she graduated from the Faculty of Pedagogics and Psychology of the University of Silesia, then, in 1996, she obtained a PhD in humanities in pedagogy and 13 years later - a PhD in humanities. Since 1987 he has been working as a lecturer at the University of Silesia in Katowice, the Department of Social Pedagogics of the Faculty of Pedagogics and Psychology, currently as a stand-alone academic and academic assistant. In her career, she performed a whole range of administrative and organisational functions at her home university, among others. d.o.b. Instantaneous studies of the Faculty of Pedagogics and Psychology. The scientific and research activities of Professor Ewa Jarosz cover more than 160 scientific articles and five book publications, all in the field of child, pedagogy and psychology. In addition, Professor Ewa Jarosz has eight authored and co-authored monographs in her work; I have already talked about articles. She has been awarded many times for her scientific activities, including the winner of the prestigious Prof. Irena Lepalczyk Award and the Minister of Science and Higher Education Award. She is also awarded and honoured with the Medal of the Committee on National Education. Professor Ewa Jarosz is a candidate for three parliamentary clubs, but in fact she is a candidate for about 80 NGOs: and those who operate throughout the country, such as. The Children's Friends Society... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, just keep it down a bit...]] ...and those that work for a small community. 80 NGOs, the Association of Polish Scouts, the Blue Line, the company of them. Janusz Korczak - all consider the professor to be a good candidate for this function. We share that opinion. [[Applause]] Professor Ewa Jarosz knows the work of the Ombudsman because she has worked for many years as a social adviser to the Ombudsman and has worked with many important projects for this institution and, above all, she is the author of annual reports on the respect of the rights of the child, including the right of the child to be raised without violence. Each year he examines, and reports on, acceptance of the use of physical punishments against children. Professor Ewa Jarosz remains convinced that children raised without violence will be better, non-violent, respectful citizens of our country. By sharing this opinion, we ask the High House to accept this candidacy. Let me tell you more: Professor Ewa Jarosz certainly would not have brought children and young people out of the Sejm, she would not have considered it an indoctrination of the recognition of democracy, but would have worked with children for this democracy and civil society. We believe that the lack of a majority is undeserved, which did not allow the High House to give a positive opinion of the candidate. Yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth was an embarrassing spectacle, during which we found that the governments did not count on competence, skills or non-governmental organisations. They only matter with senseless ideology: we have the majority, we can do anything. I ask you to reflect on this matter and to speak to Professor Ewa Jarosz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u451	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski in order to present the candidacy of Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński, submitted by the Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15, the Polish People's Party's Association - the European Democrats' Union and non-members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the nomination submitted by the Kukiz Poselski Club15, the Polish People's Party and non-members, the silhouette of the candidate for the rights of the child spokesperson of Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński. The candidate was born on 17 April 1973 in Warsaw. He graduated from the General Education High School. Stefan Batory. He then graduated from the 1st Faculty of Medicine at the Medical University of Warsaw. After his postgraduate internship he specialized in psychiatry at the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology in Warsaw. During that time he began working with the Jeevodaya leper rehabilitation center in India, led by the Polish secular missionary Helena Pyz. After this experience of working with children from lepers families, including leprosy patients, he decided to open another specialization, from pediatrics, which he is currently doing. As a doctor combining pediatric and psychiatric knowledge, Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński specializes in family therapy. He takes care of, among other things. the qualification of families for adoption of children, in particular focuses on the issue of a child with post-traumatic stress syndrome. When working as a pediatrician, Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński deals with the daily treatment of children in a closed system. For several years Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński as Senior Doctor has been a member of the Polish Center for International Aid. He is a participant in numerous humanitarian missions to help children in war and disaster areas. He participated among others. in missions in Ukraine, Peru, the Iraqi Kurdistan and on the Lebanese-Syrian border, where he oversees the work of a medical team to rescue the children of Syrian refugees. He received among others. the diploma of recognition of the Kurdish Barzanich Foundation for sacrifice and courage in assisting victims of the ISIS War in 2016. Let me just mention, for your information, that a doctor caught by terrorists from ISIS or Daes is being punished for providing assistance with death. So this is a job where you put your own life and health at risk. Mr. Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński's candidacy as a child's attorney meets all the statutory requirements for candidates. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński is a very good candidate for the post of Ombudsman of children's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very end of the day, I will say that it is difficult for me to find another person who is so hardworking, honest and ready for the highest sacrifices. In my view, this is an excellent candidate for the Ombudsman and I appeal to you to support this excellent candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u453	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u454	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would like to present the opinion of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the proposals for the election of the Ombudsman in print No 2837. The Commission met at its meeting on 12 September 2018 in order to give an opinion on the applicant's position as an ombudsman. During the meeting, candidates were presented, answered the questions asked and discussed. As a result of the vote, none of the candidates obtained the required majority of votes and thus acceptance of the committee. The committees have taken a negative view of the position of the child's Ombudsman, Ms Ewa Jarosz, Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński and Mrs Sabina Lucyna Zalewska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u455	Thank you, Member. The representatives of the clubs volunteered to speak. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Chybick, the Civic Platform Club, will speak as the first Mrs Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's really a terrible thing that the committee didn't recommend any candidate for a child's attorney position. The committee got two good candidates. For me, the best candidate for the successor of Mark Michalak, who was a truly fantastic advocate of child rights. [[Applause]] And it needs his work of continuation, Mrs. Ewa Jarosz, who knows how this spokesperson of the rights of the child and his office should act so that it is for the good of the children. The second candidate, on the other hand, is also great. The worst thing is not to choose any candidate, because I can't imagine that you'll find someone better, someone who can match Mark Michalak. [[Applause]] So that I warmly ask the right side to make this choice and vote for Ewa Jarosz, who guarantees that children in Poland will be protected and defended as it should be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u457	Thank you. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our role is to select a candidate who is fully committed to the affairs of children for whom the child will be treated subjectively. What qualities should the candidate have for this position? I'm sure he should have the right skills and knowledge. It should be above all apolitical, have the right scientific achievements, an impeccable moral and ethical opinion, should be social, sensitive. I could list here a long list of qualities that such a candidate should have, but he should certainly be a servant to children. I don't see in any of the candidates any of the qualities that Professor Ewa Jarosz possesses. I don't think we can pick a better candidate today. I would just like to quote one of the quotations that Mrs Eve put forward: Human rights start with the rights of the child and are also in the social interest. The quality of society depends on how we raise our children. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you're all interested in what I have to say here because there's a lot of chatter, but I would like us to take responsibility for making the candidate we want to support a decent representative of children's affairs, and today I cordially urge you to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u459	Thank you, Member. But, indeed, I ask you gentlemen, especially Members, to take your seats and not be in the transitions. Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. We really recommend two very good candidates here, while we recommend voting for Dr. Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński. It's a pediatrician's doctor. If today in the High House we are talking about what is very important, that is, service, service to children, then risking our lives for many years by participating in many humanitarian missions This is something that can best and best testify to the candidate for a child's ombudsperson. Dr. Kukiz-Szczuciński is a person who shows great care, especially when it comes to medical care, about the youngest. Indeed, in our view, it is a candidate who has taken this challenge very seriously and has even prepared programme assumptions. It is a pity that the High Committee has not prepared itself as well, for example, for this debate with the candidates themselves. And what else can I add, just as a mother expecting a child? I really care that the spokesperson for the rights of the child is a person who is absolutely dedicated to caring for our youngest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u461	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to the rights of the child, this debate must always begin with the most important right of life, the right to life, which should be respected by every Ombudsman of the rights of the child, but should also be respected primarily by this House and the House should demand this from the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The question is whether the High Chamber can consistently demand that the spokespersons of the rights of the child recognize the right to live in a situation where the act of "Stop abortion" has been blocked for almost a year, when work on the anti-abortion law has been dragged for almost a year, when the majority of the government has betrayed the Catholic public opinion in Poland, has betrayed the pro-life movement and today again passes the day when disabled children are killed in the majesty of the law in Poland, because Law and Justice do not wish to adopt an anti-abortion law. Today, during the debate on the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, it must be made clear that the rights of these weakest, most vulnerable children have also been violated in Poland for the last 3 years. Children with Down syndrome are also eliminated from society. And the question is, what about the spokespersons of the rights of the child, but also the question of what the public represented in this House and why it is silent, and why it has been dragging its work on this law for more than a year. I call for this to be changed as soon as possible, because it is a disgrace to go to Parliament under such banners and thus cheat voters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. The Sejm will vote on two nominations in alphabetical order. We proceed with the vote on Ms Ewa Jarosz's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mrs Eva Jarosz as the ombudsman, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. 179 voted against - 226, with 8 abstentions. I state that the Sejm did not elect Mrs. Ewa Jarosz to be the spokesperson for the rights of the child in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. We proceed to the vote on the candidacy of Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński, tabled by Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats and non-members. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szchuciński as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. 171 voted against - 215, with 29 abstentions. High Izbo! The Sejm did not elect Mr Paweł Kukiz-Szczuciński to be the spokesperson for the rights of the child. Therefore, High Sejm, that the Sejm did not choose the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, we will carry out the appointment procedure again. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 2838). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I'm opening a discussion. There you go, President Richard Terlecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! I request a separate vote on both proposals. Thank you. [[It's a vote against.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u465	It's a vote against. There you go, there's a vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has to be said directly: once again, you want to break the right of clubs to report within their parity of representatives to committee, because after a reduction in your salary, so many of you went to the government that you lacked to work for this salary minus 20%. You're talking about money. That's what this vote is all about. [[Applause]] This is not a simple vote, it is not that one or another member of the opposition will not be on the committee, it is that one or another opposition club will not be able to make full use of its parity. It's about money. You don't want to work for minus 20%. Move it from the government and let them work for minus 20%. You're talking about money in this vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u467	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made for a separate vote on the proposal to change the personal composition of the National Defence Commission. I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 184, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on changes in the membership of the National Defence Committee. Who among you is in favour of choosing Zdzisław Gawlik and Krystyna Skowronska to join this team, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 227, with three abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 2838, excluding changes in the composition of the National Defence Committee, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 333 against - 57, with 22 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 68th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to sign up? Do it. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 36 hours 20 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. I am closing the list of persons who have been submitted to the Members' statements. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Mielnica Foundation is 30 years old. In my anniversary speech, I emphasized that if I was woken up at 4:00 a.m. and asked what Mielnica looked like to me, I would say that with help, rehabilitation, with a world of values in which a disabled person is our neighbor, beautiful in his diversity. For for centuries Mielnica was simply a village, a village, and by acting first Dr. Piotr Janaszek, and then his successors became a unique place, restoring dignity to people with disabilities. 30 years of operation of Mielnica is the understanding and acceptance of people with disabilities, since the 1970s, when disabled people in the horse region were invisible, tragically invisible, to the present day, when the rank of civilization society shows its positive attitude towards people with disabilities as our partners, full-fledged citizens for whom to create a world that is fully friendly to them. This philosophy was understood already in the 1970s by Dr. Piotr Janaszek, founder of the Mielnica Foundation, the hero of the Order of Smile. The Management Board of the Mielnica Foundation wrote in its 30th anniversary: Although we have done a lot, we still have a lot to do. We feel socially needed. Based on these achievements, reflections and feelings, as well as memories of Dr. Piotr Janaszek and his achievements, we build our foundational identity. As heir to Dr. Piotr Janaszek's thoughts and accomplishments, we feel responsible for continuing his idea, which we are giving new social shapes, to the extent of time and needs. We started in 1988 as one of the first foundations in Poland and we stand firm at the station, guarding values such as social welfare and tolerance. Dr. Piotr Janaszek, founder of the foundation, has been a doctor since 1971. Then he created a children's rehabilitation unit, an orthopedic supply clinic and one of the first workshops of occupational therapy for people with severe disability in Poland. Since 1981 he has organized national screenings of films in Konin. They live among us devoted to people with disabilities. Dr. Mielnica - we read on the website of the Foundation. Dr. Mielnica - this is how letters containing requests for admission to the rehabilitation tournament in Mielnica were addressed. A great amount of strength and resources was created a centre, to which about 250 people came every year with the heaviest disability, from all over the country and from abroad. The first tournament on Gopł took place in 1978 10 years later, we read on the website, Piotr Janaszek founded together with Andrzej Obalski in cooperation with many social organizations in Konin the Mielnica Foundation, where they currently operate. two workshops of occupational therapy for 80 people with disabilities, rehabilitation center, sheltered work facility. Dr. Piotr organized the first two Abilimpiads in Konin - nationwide Olympics of the skills of people with disabilities. Dr. Piotr also started creating an environmental self-help home for people with mental disabilities, in which 35 people with mental disabilities from the area of Konin were taken care of. Dr. Piotr organized foreign trips for people with disabilities, from Europe to the United States. Unfortunately, on December 6, 1988, Dr. Piotr Janaszek died in a car accident, returning from Warsaw from a meeting with children with disabilities. The President of the Republic of Poland posthumously gave Dr. Janaszek Knight's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. The Mielnica Foundation continues, works, has very ambitious plans for the future. We all want Mielnica to be associated with the joy of people with disabilities in the context of its new structures and investments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u470	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to address to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It is related to the protest of the local government and the people of Suwałki expressing their disapproval of the celebration of the 79th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II in Suwałki. Here's the situation, at about an hour. 4.45 were celebrations... [[That's when the war started.]] ...unconnected, tied... Yes, here the Deputy Minister of Interior Jarosław Zieliński emphasizes that then the war began. What I'm trying to say, Minister, is that it wasn't 4.45 Westerplatte, it was 4.40 in Wieluń, where the beginning of World War II was. However, for the first time in Suwałki, just at hours. 4.45 as in Westerplatte, celebrations were held with Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński and all uniformed services, then at noon. 12 Suwałski self-government and residents, young people and combatants celebrated the 79th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, just as in the last dozen years. The people of Suwałk express their disapproval for actions aimed at the unity of the local community. They stress that for the past two years they have been observing unacceptable procedures for suwałczans that introduce divisions into our city between us and them, which often transfer policy standards, as they stress, to the local government level and effectively break down the unity of the local community. You can also read it as some kind of retaliation for presenting other sentences or views. It has always been a common concern for all citizens to participate in important events in the city's life, regardless of political views, without any mutual prejudices, and consequently the local authorities have consistently invited everyone to attend important national holidays and anniversaries. Invitations have always been addressed to representatives of the governing party as well as to opposition. This is what the government has been doing for a dozen years. Unfortunately, for a long time we have seen deliberate measures aimed at separating uniformed services, Suwałski's army and state institutions from Suwałski's local government and most of the city's inhabitants. The evidence of this is concrete behavior in relations with the Suwałski self-government. No one questions the state of these services and their subordinates, but for many years in Suwałki it has been possible to create proper relations and cooperation with the local government and residents of this city. Unfortunately, it's different now. The ceremonies are organized by the city without the participation of the army, uniformed services and representatives of state institutions. They ask: Is this a normal situation? Why can't we celebrate holidays and anniversaries together for the Polish people and Suwałczan in our city? This year, Prime Minister, we all want to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Why is this happening in other cities, often also in those who do not have power over the current ruling coalition? Who wants to split us up? Who cares? Why? Who decided to celebrate the 79th anniversary of World War II separately? Through this action we show that there is no respect for those who fought for free Poland, veterans and veterans, but also those who laid down their lives on the altar of their homeland. Prime Minister! Is this the way to educate children and young people and express respect for traditions, especially those who have sacrificed their lives for their homeland? In this statement, I ask the Prime Minister once again to lead to the situation that in Suwałki it is possible to celebrate public, national and local ceremonies together with uniformed services, which are intended to serve society and not just the governing authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u471	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On July 23, Leszek Kamier-Ciemiński died - a wonderful husband, father, my dear friend. Leszek Kamier-Ciemiński was a former activist of the First Solidarity, he worked as a union at the Mostostal plant in Chojnice. He was repressed during martial law, beaten up in quotes, unknown perpetrators. He has always been faithful to the holy Catholic faith and to the teaching of the Catholic Church. His zealous faith translated into the priestly calling of his son Simon, who received the priestly sacrament last year. Leszek Kamier-Ciemiński was the first mayor of Chojnice after the systemic transformation. It served from June 1990 until October 1992. For many years he has been involved in the activities of associations. Social work was part of his life. He was associated with the Chojnice Sailing Club and the Christian School under the sails. As an active member of the prayer communities at the smaller basilica in Chojnice, he was the inventor of the retreat for the parents of the seminarians. Great patriotism, love for the country was always at the top of all socio-political activities that Leszek took. God, honor, homeland - these are values that were not alien to him. His activity in the local government was marked by a great effort to build foundations, local self-government structures in Poland after the fall of communism. It was a very difficult time, a time of great commitment and great effort, a titanic work in the local government of Chojnice. A great man has passed away, his works remain, and his memory of him. The person we could always count on left who never refused to help the weak and the needy. As a Member of the Chojnice Land, I pay tribute to the memory of the first mayor of Chojnice after the fall of communism, my friend Leszek Kamier-Cieminski. Leszek, we miss you so much. I miss you in my parliamentary work. You've always stood by me from the very beginning. You and your wife were also here in the Seym. We were together in Cracow when Christ was incarnated as king of Poland. It's just that you're missing. Rest in eternal peace. Amen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u473	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 September 1939, Russian troops, implementing the pact between Hitler and Stalin, known as the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, crossed the Polish border and began armed operations in eastern Poland. I would like to remind you that on 3 September the German ambassador sent a note to the Russian government in which he demanded that allies be fulfilled. According to what Molotov said at the time, Stalin was waiting for Germany to occupy Warsaw. Stalin in his political game wanted to show that only Germany was responsible for the outbreak of World War II. Today, after many years of hard work by Polish historians, we know that without signing the agreement with Stalin, and also in the absence of certainty as the British and French governments will behave, Hitler would not have started the war in 1939. Its outbreak has been accelerated by the diplomatic actions of the Russian state, which to this day only occurs in many publications under the name of the Soviet Union. Thus, millions of Poles are misled about Russia's responsibility and role in the war in September 1939 and later tragic events taking place in the Eastern Kreses and other parts of the Soviet state. Let us remind you that the Russians officially declared that they entered Poland on September 17 to protect the people of the Eastern Kresów. However, this did not happen, which is why on the 79th anniversary of the Russian invasion of Poland it is worth recalling that the Red Army soldiers carried out mass robbery of property, arrests or murders on the Polish population. NKVD officers were also the initiators of proceedings with owners of land estates and people associated with Polish statehood, officials, academic staff, priests, teachers and policemen. On this special day, let us pay tribute to the murdered Poles, residents of the then Eastern Kresów, who died at the hands of Soviet oppressors. Let the memory of those events be a solid and permanent foundation on which it will be possible to build a good future for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u475	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the European Parliament started the procedure for Article. 7 against Hungary. In my sixth term, I was a Member of the European Parliament. The first vote was shocking to me. The result of the vote given by the President was not the result of an electronic vote or counting votes by other means. The president looked at whether or not the resolution was adopted. This is how most legal acts are adopted. At the request of a parliamentarian who has doubts about the outcome of the vote, this vote can be repeated electronically. It happens that the difference is more than 200 votes in the opposite direction to the originally announced result of the vote. I was involved in the procedure for adopting the Treaty of Lisbon. Chadecia and the Socialists rejected the motion to postpone the vote on the matter by 2 weeks, i.e. until the text of the Treaty is translated into all the official languages of the European Parliament. Thus, with regard to the most important legal document, an important part of the parliamentarians had to vote without having access to the document in their own language. The procedure for determining the outcome of votes is currently changing, assuming that abstentions can be considered non-existent. The European Parliament cannot be a model for the application of democratic procedures. There is also no moral right to instruct Hungary in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u477	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u478	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a statement today about the great uncle, the governor of the municipality of Jedlinsk, Kamila Dzierz. After the local elections in 2014, i.e. Four years ago, Mr. Mayor offered me the job of secretary of the commune. Earlier, I worked as Vice President of Radom City for eight years. I was happy to take up this assignment. Ladies and gentlemen, 10 days after taking up the position, a foreign company arrived, which laid down documents and stated that 27 huge windmills, windmills, would be built in the municipality of Jedlinsk, which the inhabitants absolutely disagreed with. And then I saw what was the great determination of a young uncle, a man who never worked in a local government, and who loved his land, his little homeland. Despite great efforts, despite my experience, it was really the determination of this uncle, Kamil the Virgin, that we and the inhabitants led to the fact that these windmills were not created, of course, to the great satisfaction of the inhabitants, of the vast majority of the inhabitants and to the disappointment of a few people who, contrary to the inhabitants, tried to locate these windmills in the Jedlinsk commune. I am very grateful for how Kamil Dziewierz worked at that time, how he showed great determination. And this determination has produced concrete results, not only in this area, but in many other areas. The result of its operation is many general renovations in the framework of the thermomodernization of school buildings in the commune, for the amount of PLN 4 million, construction of playgrounds, furnishing of voluntary firefighters. It's like this. Social activity, which should be underlined, is that, at the initiative of Mayor Kamil the Virgin, in 2015 a Club of Honorary Blood Donors of the Jedlin Land was established, under which regular blood collections are carried out in Jedlinsk. For three years, ladies and gentlemen, nearly 100 litres of blood has been collected. In addition, it is worth mentioning the fantastic event, which is Jadar Family Drift. It is a family picnic and is one of these events in the region, whose main attraction is taxi drift, i.e. car ride. The funds that are received under this event shall be transferred to charity. So far, more than 40,000 have been raised. PLN, which has been allocated to the treatment and rehabilitation of those in need from the area of the municipality of Jedlinsk. All these actions are actions initiated by Uncle Kamil the Virgin. I bow to this young, vibrant brute, and I hope that in the next election, the people will once again give you the ticket, because I think it will be an excellent choice, the best one. So far, for four years, the governor has managed this municipality perfectly. I am convinced that for the next five years it will also be fantastic to support the development of its community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u479	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of smog in Poland is still not solved, and government policy in this area is not yet giving tangible results. We have another heating season ahead of us, and there are antismog designs in the Seym freezer. The smog and the fight against it must look beyond any division, without seeking business or facilitating the management of the garbage economy. Therefore, as a resident of the Living and the Member, I speak once again from this speaker decisively not for the waste incineration plant as a way of using the energy waste contained in the strategy for responsible development. Such incinerators also produce waste, and mostly dangerous. During the combustion process, some chemicals are decomposed. At the same time, decaying molecules enter new reactions, creating even more dangerous substances than primary ones. In the case of smog and incinerator, I submitted a number of interpellations in the previous and current term. Self-governments do not cope with their own garbage, and our country allows dangerous waste from around the world to be imported into Poland. Statistics clearly show that the level of imports continues to increase. Some get rich, others get hurt. It can't be like this. In many places in Poland the process of investments related to the construction of the incineration plant has been successfully stopped. In the Żywiec, where I live, one of the most polluted cities in Europe, there is no place for such investments either. We can't let that happen. It is time to introduce national mechanisms to encourage investment in waste recycling, which is still at an insufficient level. Otherwise, we're gonna suffocate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u481	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly 286 years ago, on 13 September 1732 a secret arrangement between Austria and Russia was concluded in Vienna, to which Prussia joined three months later. The agreement, called the covenant of three black eagles from the coats of arms of the countries of the parties, was aimed at the Polish-Saxon Union against the imminent death of the king of Poland and Prince Saxony August II of Wettyn. The two parties agreed not to support the free election, nor the representative of the Wettyny dynasty, nor supported by France, Stanisław Leszczyński. He was a joint candidate. Portuguese Infant Don Emanuel Bragança. In addition, it was offered to the Prusai that, in the event of the expiry of the Dukeship of Kurland and Semigalia of the Kettler family, the throne would be given to the Prussian Prince August Wilhelm, which would prevent these lands from being incorporated into the Republic of Poland. The main goal of the geopolitical agreement was to block French policy in this part of Europe, based on an alliance with Saxony and supporting its candidate for the Polish throne of Stanisław Leszczyński and to draw Prussia away from the agreement with France. Austria and Russia have demonstrated force at the border of the Republic of Poland, putting this action into propaganda that the aim is to protect the Polish freedom to freely choose the ruler. Shortly after August II's death and the convocal seym, where it was decided that only a Pole and a Catholic could be elected as king, and most of the political rights of the dissidents were taken away, which clearly thwarted the plans of the three powers, there was a reversal of alliances. Frederick August Wettyn made an agreement with Austria and Russia, relinquishing his rights in Kurland and Austria, and the cheated Prusai were neutral in the upcoming game and without any profit. After the decisive election victory of Stanisław Leszczyński, there was a Russian-Sasca armed intervention supporting Wettyn's supporters under the leadership of Antoni Poniński. As a result, France declared war on Austria and a war on Polish succession broke out, a war involving Spain, the Principality of Sabaud-Piemont and Bavaria. War activities were carried out in almost all of Europe, including Sicily, the Netherlands and northern Italy. As a result, and this is the most important thing about this event, the Republic finally lost its own subjectivity in the international arena almost 300 years ago and lost most of its sovereignty. Today we should pay particular attention to the events in which an attempt to organize the political system and repair our country meets with the secret arrangement of neighbouring countries, acting under the motto of defending Polish democracy and freedom. We must, according to the words of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, take the fate of Poland in our hands responsibly, on our way, serving only Poland, loving only Poland and guarding those who serve strangers. History of the master's vitae est. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u483	Thank you very much, sir. And there you go, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a statement, this is an appeal, because I hope that this appeal will be heard better than my vote on the committee. It concerns an important issue - opportunities for Polish children to learn Polish in Germany. At the committee meeting, I heard that there were procedures and that the matter would be handled. You can't talk about doing business here. Children should and have the right to go to school on September 15th. That's how this school always worked, but this year it's different. Why? Because after the competition, the lady who was the director didn't get a positive opinion, even though she was loved by her students and loved by her parents. Why the opinion wasn't positive, she couldn't find out and no one could find out. They say it's classified, but it seems ridiculous. What, then, is the solution proposed? It was proposed that you, who are the headmaster or headmaster of this school, should be a school consultative centre in Nuremberg, but Nuremberg is 150 km away from Munich, where this school does not function, would not start. So, Mr. Manager... As we know, Patriotic schools have their classes on Saturdays. How can we solve this problem? How can you do two jobs when there's such a distance? I don't know that, and neither do my parents, and they're protesting. The manager started his business by reducing the amount of weekend activities for children by 10%. 10% It's a lot. These classes aren't much. So we're in a situation where the school hasn't moved, we don't know when it's gonna start. The school doesn't have a headmaster or a headmaster. What does that have to do with anything? Until now, the premises have not been officially transferred, so no agreement has been signed with the new manager. What's the threat? That the Germans might change their minds and not give this place to a school in Munich at all. The school in Munich has 400 students, it's a great number. Nuremberg school's only 100. But there are also children in this one who need a director who will talk to his parents and do all the business, and the one who has 400 students. So I appeal not to solve this problem procedurally for a month, but to solve it immediately, because Polish children have the right to go to Polish school and learn Polish language, and the Polish government has a duty to provide it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u485	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u486	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Sister-in-laws celebrated the 100th anniversary of the convention in the Vilnius College, a parish with which they have been associated for 66 years. The Holy Mass for the life and work of the founder's mother, the servant of God Josepha Halacińska, was celebrated by Fr. Bishop Michael Janoch. The cradle of the new nun's family was Płock, where the solitaire sisters took up work with orphans. Joseph's mother met all the needs she saw in a country that was awakened from slavery and threatened by Godless Bolshevism. She founded an orphan educational facility, a babysitting facility and a sewing and embroidery workshop for girls. In time, 27 assembly facilities were established, where orphans, old men, kindergartens, and shelters operated. The sisters worked as nurses in hospitals, did charity work at parishes and helped priests in pastoral work. Today they run a nursing home and kindergarten, work in hospitals and as catechists, cryptians and law firms. Since 1986, they have been present on missions in Cameroon. Joseph's mother died in the opinion of holiness on 9 February 1946. It is currently undergoing a beatification process in Rome. On September 1, 10, I lived with the passionate sisters in their institution in Rome and had the opportunity to learn their beautiful work for the sake of my neighbor, the Church and our homeland. Dear Sisters! I thank you for the good you do every day. Stay with God. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u487	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Lying always has short legs and long nose Pinocchio. It is not right for the Prime Minister and ministers to lie, to use half-truth, and to conceal the facts. And if that happens, false information needs to be corrected, which I will also do. Allow me to refer to the lies of the Minister of Infrastructure Adamczyk and Prime Minister Morawiecki. Gentlemen recently visited Dolny Śląsk, Kłodzko, where during the press conference they said they had participated in the ceremony of signing a contract for the extension of the national road No. 8 on section Wrocław - Kłodzko. During the conference, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the express road from Wroclaw to Kłodzek and later to Kudowa will be built to the border with the Czech Republic, and that they have just signed, actually Minister Adamczyk has signed, appropriate documents for the first work in this direction. And Minister Adamczyk then said, and here I will quote literally, precisely: I will remind you that our predecessors did not enter this road into the National Road Construction Programme 2008-2012, in the next programme, they did not even include it in the electoral programme, which was called, so negatively assessed by the road industry, which was adopted by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL in September 2015, that investment was not placed there. We carry out these roads, which are said to be impossible to build, cannot be done, because there is no point and they are inefficient. Today I had the opportunity and the honour to sign a document that would allow me to work on preparing the task of Mon. The express road from Wroclaw towards Kłodzka to the Kłodzkia Basin and, until the end, to the state border - the end of the quote from Minister Adamczyk. Gentlemen said this in the company of PiS candidates for self-government, without the participation of the President-in-Office mayor, the mayor and the old-timers. And he signed the document of Minister Adamczyk. On the other hand, a few weeks ago, the same Minister, also without the participation of local government officials, opened with his colleagues the Kłodzek ring road completely prepared, from finding financing by entering into the national programme, through a tender for construction in the system: design and build, pinning the awards. I return to the recent events from Kłodzka and the statements of both gentlemen, the Minister and the Prime Minister. From one we have heard that here will be a contract for the construction of DK8, from the other, that it will be an expressway S8. You can be confused. According to what you have announced, this should be a document stating that the expressway from Wroclaw through Kłodzko to Kudowa, which is to the border with the Czech Republic, will be built. Except the status of the planned investment hasn't changed, hasn't changed a thing. I checked. Ladies and gentlemen, I have this document that was signed on Saturday in Kłodzek. Prime Minister Morawiecki is lying. Minister of Infrastructure Adamczyk also lies. They lie about what is so important to all of us, the users of a dangerous and crowded road. This mysterious document signed in Kłodzk by Minister Adamczyk is only an annex entitled: The extension of the national road No 8 on the section Wrocław - Magnice - Kłodzko together with the construction of the locality bypasses. The preparatory process, which merely confirms the work carried out so far, has been ongoing since 2016, which is only possible because the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL put this section in August 2015 into the National Road Construction Programme and called it a task: The extension of the national road no. 8 on the Wrocław - Kłodzko section along with the construction of the locality bypasses. So the addition of the same thing. And 2 months later, in October 2015, the same government of Platform and PSL announced a tender for the development of a technical and economic study of the environment, which lasts, lasts all the time and will last for many months. Thanks to this, since 2016, the development of STEŚ, the development of the corridor study of the route, the programming concept and the functional-use program, which lasts and lasts, as I said earlier, for many months. In addition to the route variant, environmental impact assessments, the subject of the contract is to identify optimal solutions for the cross-section of the road and determine costs. What cross section, i.e. the answer to which modernization is to consist, whether to extend the road to section 2+2 over the whole length, or to extension of section 2+1 and construction of the locality bypasses. This is an analysis of these several factors, which, moreover, is reported to me in a letter from the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Wrocław, the director at the stage of the preparation of STEŚ and the analysis of traffic forecasts, was to decide on the parameters of the road. Of course, by all those who know this path, the expected parameter is 2+2. This was and is the subject of the order, with this information resulting from the ongoing work, the Prime Minister came with ministers. The name and scope of the task does not change, it is still preparatory work of the task Mon. Expansion of national road No 8 in section Wroclaw - Magnice - Kłodzko, without changing the technical class of the road to the expressway, without increasing the task by further kilometers to the border with the Czech Republic and still in the same place and position in the "Programme of construction of national roads." Ladies and gentlemen! I know there's an election campaign going on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, issues are very important for the inhabitants, as it is important to modernise road infrastructure, especially this dangerous and especially this heavily crowded one. It is worth telling the truth, not using half-truth and withholding the facts. You mustn't and you shouldn't use a lie, because a lie, as I said at the outset, has short legs and a long nose Pinocchio. And sooner or later, Poles and Poles will judge the facts, the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-13-sejm-68-2.u489	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 68th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Order 69. the meeting of the Sejm, convened on 2 and 3 and 4 October 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 20]]
