ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u1	I open the sixty-sixth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 7 October 2018, Henryk Dzido, senator of the fifth term, member of the European Union's Committee on Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Izbo, I inform you that on 21 September 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on the implementation in 2017 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and the foster care system. The text of the information is contained in print No 953. I sent this information to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 17 October and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on 23 October 2018 took note of the information submitted and informed me. I would like to inform you that on 27 June 2018, the President of the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors provided the Senate with a report on the activities of the Regional Courts of Auditors and the implementation of the budget by local government units in 2017. It is included in print No 940. On 14 September 2018, I sent a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 23 October took note of the report and informed me of it. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its sixty-nineth meeting on 4 October 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Law In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the second sixty-three, third and sixty-fourth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 4 to 11 and 13 to 15 be considered, as well as item 18 of the draft agenda, even though the Commission's reports to these items were submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that you change the order of consideration of the points: the sixth, i.e. Act on the amendment of the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and consider this item as item one of the agenda; the fourth, i.e. Act amending the Law amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda; the 19th, i.e. Report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017 and consider this item as item 3 of the agenda; 20th, i.e. Information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and consider it as item four of the agenda; the twelfth, i.e. Act amending the Act on State Labour Inspection and consider it as item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I propose a joint examination of the points: the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017 and information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I inform you that Senator Jan Rulewski, on behalf of the Senators' Group, on 28 September 2018, in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, requested the following item to be added to the agenda: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the activities of special services, in particular CBA, during the election campaign for local government in 2018. I did not take into account the proposal submitted because the local elections have not yet ended, the campaign is also in progress, and I also believe that this information should not take place in plenary. Do applicants still maintain their application? [[Yes.]] Yes. Then we'll vote. [[Objection and justification...]] Excuse me? [[Objection and justification.]] Well, Mr. Senator... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The request to complete order is absolutely timely and necessary. It was signed by more than 20 senators, a group of senators, and this resulted in at least two events affecting the election campaign. The first one is a massive control action of voivodship seymikas. So the political nomenclature of different groups... the Seyms are political institutions... The other is a tape thing that the servants didn't control. Mr. Marshal is right about the campaign going on, and it's important that it is clear to the end. Therefore, it is also important that we learn how much the services control the electoral process or interfere with it. As I think it is in the interest of Poland that the election process in Poland will be completed... [[And why do you say they're interfering? Mr. Senator, what do you have to say is that they're interfering? Well, because you said right now... you made a very serious accusation out of this stand.]] I just said... [[What are the conditions, Senator?]] Okay, I'll answer. [[At least one reason. Tell me.]] The first is that during the pre-election campaign, but after the election announcement, there were checks in all the seymics... [[Whose checks? Special Ops?]] Yeah, CBA.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u3	Mr. Senator, I'm taking your vote back. Thank you very much. [[CBA.]] Thank you very much. [[Well, that's an example...]] Thank you very much. [[...the interference...]] Okay... [[...not only the service, but also your marshal.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Who's in favor of... Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote. Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted... Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 22 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much. Therefore, I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the sixty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. The Senators, today at 12:00 p.m., will be adjourned due to the opening of the exhibition in tribute to the Marshal. The second part of this hour break is at the request of the Civic Platform Club. So at 12:00, there will be an hour's break. We will resume the session at 1 p.m. Tomorrow, i.e. On Thursday, October 25th, we will begin the session at 11.00 from the examination of the item concerning the second reading of the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Cardinal August Hlond Primate of Poland. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I inform you senators that after the reports have been prepared by the relevant committees That's why tomorrow we need this time from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. The agenda may be supplemented by the following laws... I read these laws: first, the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on tax taxation and some other laws; second, the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons, the Act on corporate income tax and certain other laws; third, the Act on Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities; fourth, the Act on the Fund for Roads of Self-Government; fifth, the Act amending the Act amending the Act on health care benefits financed by public funds and certain other laws; sixth, the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Farming Insurance; seventh, the Act establishing the National Day on the occasion of the 100th Anniversary of Recovery of Independence of the Republic of Poland........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Well, it's supposed to be 8 points, and it's 7. [[Voice from the room: It's...]] Well, it's supposed to be eight, and it's seven. Something's missing... [[Voice from the room: Next page.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's all...]] No, there was something else in there. [[The choice of a child's ombudsperson.]] Yeah, the choice isn't... [[Voice from the hall: On the other side it is written.]] Oh, there it is. Thank you very much. In addition, I would like to inform you that the agenda will be supplemented by a point... may be supplemented by points: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman and changes in the membership of the Senate committees. Okay, now I get it. It's so informative. We proceed to the examination of the item of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 962, and the committee report In print No 962 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Generals! Mr. Marshal, allow me, before I begin my report on yesterday's session of the Committee on National Defence, the first Deputy Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, General Michael Sikora, present among us. . with a request to transfer his commanding officer, head of the General Staff of the Polish Army On the eve of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the General Staff of the Polish Army, I will make the best and dearest wishes. The effort of a Polish soldier during regaining independence is an effort worthy of the highest honor, attention and respect. General, please give the Chief of Staff and all staff of the General Staff, soldiers and civilians their best wishes on this occasion. Tomorrow, in the square of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, we will celebrate these main celebrations, which are a great contribution to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Happy birthday, General. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on National Defence on amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, these 2 amendments, which were proposed in print No. 2786, in the government project presented at the 60th meeting of the Sejm, adopted the Sejm on 4 October 2018. The Act introduces changes which aim to reorganize the chain of command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. These changes will lead to a clear definition of the role of individual levels and levels of command in the Polish Army. The Act strengthens the powers of the Chief of the General Staff of the Polish Army, who, being the highest active soldier and candidate for commander of the Armed Forces, will represent the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and carry out tasks in the field of operational planning in the national and ally dimension. The bill is based on the need to improve the management and command system of the Armed Forces. You probably, following the media or listening to various kinds of statements recently, could observe that you are talking about what is being said in the Polish Army, even in the military in general, is very often referred to briefly as the so-called. SKiD. It is also intended to lead to some systematicisation or even universalisation of experience based on command systems in NATO or in allies. This amendment is defined In his speech in the Sejm, the Minister of National Defence referred her to her as such. It's called... a small amendment as the beginning of the changes that will take place in the SKiD. But the main task of the Government of Law and Justice and the Minister for National Defence is to achieve three basic objectives. The first is to increase the number of Polish Armed Forces. The second is the intensive technical modernization of the Polish army. And the third element, extremely important I think those who watched the NATO Military Committee assembly that took place in Warsaw a few weeks ago will agree. It is a strengthening of the position of Polish commanders, the Polish army in the North Atlantic Alliance. These are three objectives, clearly set by the Government of Law and Justice and the Minister of National Defence, to strengthen the security and position of the Polish Armed Forces. Revision in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Office of the Minister of Defence defines the detailed scope of duties of the Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, which is to become such a link between the political and operational level of command of the Polish Armed Forces. I'm gonna let this play go. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Read one. These powers of the Head of General Staff are mentioned 14. In point 1, there is a command of the Armed Forces, excluding the Territorial Defence Forces, until the territorial defence forces have fully achieved their capacity to act. Here, as soon as yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence has been formed, the decision-making body is the Minister of National Defence, and at the time of the completion of the formation this type of Armed Forces will be certified to come under the command of the Chief of Staff. But right now, both the first Deputy Chief of Staff, General Michał Sikora and General Wiesław Kukuła, commander of the Territorial Defence Army... There is a dialogue between the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces and the Head of the General Staff, as this scope of certification is expected to look like in the future. And there's full cooperation on this. Paragraph 2 is the planning of the strategic use of the Armed Forces. Paragraph 3 - Planning the organisation and operation of the military command system by the Armed Forces. Further: planning and organising the mobilization and strategic development of the Armed Forces, preparing and training the Armed Forces for the defence of the State and participating in activities outside the State, defining the objectives and main directions for the operational and training activities of the Armed Forces, ensuring the maintenance in the Armed Forces of mobilization and combat preparedness, programming of the multi-annual development of the Armed Forces, and participating in planning of financial and financial expenditure, planning and coordinating the logistics system of the Armed Forces, representing the Armed Forces in the highest collegial military bodies of international organizations whose Republic of Poland is a member. Point 12 deals with advising the Minister for National Defence, the State Secretaries and the Undersecretaries of State in the Ministry on matters relating to the general and operational activities of the Armed Forces. Paragraph 13 - Preparation and maintenance of management positions in areas of development of secondary positions of government defence management for the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers and ministers and central government bodies designated by the President of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 14 "Protecting and ensuring the functioning of facilities and facilities of particular importance'. This is the main competence of the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, which indicates that it is the responsibility of the highest rank and function of a soldier in the Polish army, and systematicizes this hierarchicalness, so that it is clear about the position performed and the subordinate commanders and soldiers. As regards the second law, the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, here the fundamental change is that the head of the Armed Forces Support Department will be directly subject to the head of the General Staff. And these are the fundamental changes that allow us to introduce uniformity and systematicness in improving the control and command system of the Polish Armed Forces in this first, initial phase. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau proposed that certain areas be clarified in relation to relations with the Territorial Defence Army. The Commission did not accept this and the law was adopted at the committee meeting without amendments. Main part of the discussion due to presence And thank you very much, sir. - What's going Wiesława Kukuła, was to inform the senators what the state of construction of the Territorial Defence Army looks like at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u5	Thank you, Senator, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u6	Thank you, Senator rapporteur, for this speech, the report. But there's a political background. And this is the content of my question: how is it that this membership of this military formation depends on who will be the Minister of Defence? Because, as far as I know, it was supposed to be completely different. And now the Minister, the Chief of the Armed Forces. The question is whether there are guarantees that this formation will not come to another minister or another person again after the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u7	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions for the rapporteur? No. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're right to assume that's a political question. A Polish soldier serves a nation, not politicians. That's one thing. Secondly, this issue was not addressed in this way and there is no basis for saying so, as in your logical origin you presented the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[There will be questions for the Minister.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. Minister, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I understand it, there will be questions addressed to me. I just want to talk about two things. First of all, I would like to thank President Rusiecki for his smooth handling of this bill yesterday. And thank you very much for this committee meeting. And, secondly, a few issues of nature related to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this law restores a certain standard in the army. Today, with a view to the functioning of this system of leadership and command of the Polish army, it is clear that the system, which is currently in force, is unreadable, inconsistent with the Natov system and is simply wrong. And now we have to get to a situation where nominally the highest ranking officer... Because the head of the General Staff may be a general, an officer, a four-star general, the highest officer. Today he is de facto the auxiliary advisory body of the Minister of National Defence, although, as the President rightly pointed out, he represents the Polish army, the Polish army in international fora, for example in the structures of the NATO military committee, i.e. this supreme body of commanders of all armies of the North Atlantic Alliance countries. And according to these solutions that are in force today, it is de facto only a body that helps, advises, is the auxiliary body of the Minister of National Defence. And that's what needs to be changed. This must be changed and restored to such normality that it is the head of the General Staff, which is subject to the various types of Armed Forces. Today, there is still a proposal that he is subject to the General Commander of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a thing which absolutely, absolutely, must be realized so that everything is clear, transparent, even in our relations and contacts with allies. I would like to highlight one more point. We in this act write on purpose that the Territorial Defence Forces will be subject to the Minister of National Defence until they are fully formed, to acquire full combat and operational capabilities. This is what happens in many armies of worlds, especially in situations where new organisms are created. And that's another thing that's completely natural. Today, the Territorial Defence Forces are in the process of creating, in accordance with the agreed timetable. Today, the Territorial Defence Army is formed in a vast majority of voivodships Of the 18 brigades at the moment, we have... [[Good morning.]] Good morning, Mr. Marshal. At the moment we already have 14 brigades of the Territorial Defence Army. The last 4 will be created in the west of our country. Please note that the establishment phase of the Territorial Defence Army will end in 2021, 2022, as scheduled. Only that we still need those last battalions that will be created within these brigades to acquire full operational capabilities, full of combat capabilities. Acquiring these operational capabilities is a time of up to 3 years. And that's why we're giving the Minister of National Defence in this bill a tool: it's the Minister of National Defence by way of an order that will decide whether the Territorial Defence Forces are ready to go under the orders of the Chief of Staff or not. It will be the decision of the Minister of National Defence and it will probably take place no earlier than in 2024. With regard to sovereignty, as Senator Rulewski had just asked, the President of the Republic is the highest commander of the Armed Forces, Ladies and Gentlemen. And here I absolutely agree... It is the President of the Republic who appoints the commander for the time of the President of the Council of Ministers, at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers. And here, absolutely nothing changes. I am at your disposal, so that if there are any doubts, questions, please. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. I think it's the last time. You're visiting us... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: No, no...]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u12	I'm continuing my... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can step down. [[Excuse me?]] I can give up on my friend. [[Oh, good. You're welcome.]] He was a minister, so... [[Go ahead, go ahead...]] Okay, that's short. This is the continuation of my question, Minister, taken by the Senator rapporteur. There's a pretty serious statement in your mouth that he's the Chief of the Armed Forces. Asking for the opinion of the Chief of the Armed Forces on these transformations you were talking about. Was she like this, and if she was, what was she like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u13	If I may, Mr. Marshal... These solutions that we are proceeding today were prepared in agreement and in agreement with the President, with the National Security Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u14	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u15	Minister, I'd like to ask your opinion. Don't you think that before taking the initiative to reform the Armed Forces leadership and command system, a pending case, related to the development programme of the Armed Forces for the years 2017/12026, should be investigated? Well, it seems that the reform of the command system should be compatible... It should be conducted on the basis of such a programme. And that's the first question. Two. I would like you to address the voice of the former head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, General Mieczysław Gocul, who, referring to your justification for the need to align the chain of command with NATO structures and NATO countries... In his interview, General Gocul said, he formulated such a thesis that NATO leaves freedom to shape the system of command and direction of the Armed Forces to the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. I assure you that all documents, especially the strategic documents, have been adopted or are being negotiated today. The last documents prepared by the General Staff will be on the desk of the Minister of National Defence any minute now or in the next few hours. Today we are extending this perspective in terms of planning documents, until 2026, but also... Besides, this law has already been decided by the Sejm Committee and it will soon go to the Senate. We want to accept these strategic documents also in the 15-year cycle, not only the 10-year cycle, because this is the cycle of adopting these strategic documents in the North Atlantic Alliance. And in a moment, at the next session of the Sejm Because this has not entered the current agenda of the Sejm, we will also investigate these solutions, and I will also stand before you and answer questions about planning documents, strategic documents and strategic planning when it comes to the Polish army, the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the gene. Gocula and I wouldn't want to get into polemics. Apparently, we're different about the management and command systems, and I think it's best to keep it that way. Let me repeat once again: the solutions we are talking about in this law are so important that they are not compatible with operational and strategic solutions, and they are strategic when it comes to the North Atlantic Alliance. I would also like to say one thing. The analysis of the current management and command system shows that the solutions adopted, for example those related to command, are in place. The combination of strategic and operational levels in the chain of command is precisely such a bone of disagreement. Maybe that's a bad word, but they're just pointing out that there's no certain compatibility with the solutions that are in NATO or the North Atlantic Alliance countries. This is one of those elements. This has also been demonstrated by exercises, including staff exercises, which have been carried out in recent years, clearly indicating that this system is in many respects defective. And one more very important point and an explanation for the senators. We don't say we're infallible. We're giving each other time. And it's just written down that we give ourselves 2 years to evaluate the solutions that we're proposing today. After 2 years there will be a summary and a kind of reflection on whether these solutions are sufficient or whether we need to go further so as to improve the system that is today. You don't need that kind of dualism in the military today. There are also problems with who is responsible for what, because the system that is in force today is not a vertical system, leading from top to bottom It also has its horizontal aspects, which are not entirely beneficial for the Polish army.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u17	Senator Rybicki wants to ask. You're welcome. [[I have one more question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u18	Minister, in connection with your response and new threads, I'd like to ask you... You said you were evaluating the solution that the government is proposing right now. There was also criticism of the previous solution. On the basis of the reformed regulations of 2014 on the management and direction of the Armed Forces, a large military exercise of Anakonda was successfully conducted in 2016. They resulted in a success, which was announced by the Minister for National Defence and the Government of Law and Justice. It was just an exercise based on a system you want to change. Wasn't that the best evaluation? It was a practice practice test. It was a success. Why change the rules on leadership when they have proven themselves in a large, huge exercise involving other NATO countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u19	I'll say it again. The military is practically permanently conducting exercises. It's probably what you say, but it's very important for us to have staff exercises that are also being conducted. They show some flaws or system deficiencies. Today, speaking of these ailments, I clearly point out: this is not a good system, this is a system that introduces many dualisms, which is not uniform and in which there is no direct responsibility for specific decisions made in the military. Today, the military can have no doubt in its decision-making. Today it is a hierarchised structure and it needs to be maintained. Today, the person responsible for what happens in the military is the Commander General of the Armed Forces, who has to cooperate. That's an equivalent position. Operative Commander. And please note that if we are sending soldiers out of the country today, then on the one hand, soldiers are under the command of the General, and on the other hand, the operational commander is responsible. These are certain inaccuracies that lead to nothing good. Following the introduction of a system in which the Chief General Staff, the first soldier of the Republic, is in charge of what is happening, for what decisions are made, in which direction the army is headed, where soldiers are sent and where they are taking operational challenges. And that's the hierarchized structure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u20	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u21	Minister, when we had previously decided on this matter, the representatives of the Ministry led us to completely opposite solutions. Then you said with great conviction that this was almost the discovery of a patent for the fantastic functioning of WOTs, and we pointed out everything that the Minister is talking about now. I am therefore asking the question, additionally concerned by the words that you have just said, Minister, that after two years there will be an evaluation and perhaps you will change that. Isn't it like we're still gonna see some games? Not to say in this context: wars at the top between the politicians of PiS, whose hostage becomes the Polish army?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm glad to hear it. As I understand it, it's a voice coming from the heart. [[And unchanged.]] When the discussion on the management and command system was passing through the Sejm and through the Senate, we were sitting in the same Chamber, we were only on two sides. [[Exactly.]] You were on one side as a hot supporter of the management and command system. The Civic Platform like one husband. supported these solutions in the Senate And I on the other hand, then in opposition, among those who criticized these solutions and pointed out that they are absolutely bad, bad for the Polish army and in many aspects will bring much chaos. And I'm afraid that's what happened. We, Mr. Senator, probably remember that. We have clearly pointed out that a profound reflection on the management and command system will have to be carried out. I understand, there is continuity of power and is also responsible for the errors and perversions of the predecessors, although man does not identify with them, but also that is the rule of law. The command system, management and command system, the SKiD in today's form must be changed, and therefore I would very much like to ask the senators to make these changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about the HR situation in the Polish Army after the departure of many high-ranking commanders, experienced generals. How do you feel about the reasons for leaving, and how much of this personnel situation can prevent the reform of the military leadership and command system from happening?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u25	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the personnel issues you spoke about were, are and will be, because it is not unusual that generals, officers leave the army, it is natural. I will be happy to provide details of this exchange, including with regard to management. It is not that today there is a government of Law and Justice and there is an incredible revolution in the Polish army's leadership. Unfortunately, numbers, numbers are inexcusable and unambiguously show that the changes in the army have taken place, follow and will probably follow, regardless of who will rule. The changes that are proposed today by the Polish army, the Polish army, are made without any, even the smallest, damage to the security of Poland and Poles. They are undertaken in a rational manner and do not in any way compromise the security of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u27	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. So thank you very much, Minister, for answering my questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up to speak. [[Voice from the room: Are there any corrections?]] [[No, there are no corrections.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up, except for me, but I will make a speech on the record. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 957, and the committee report In print No 957 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 4 October 2018 amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws; Parliamentary Printing No. 957. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a commission project, a parliament project. The committee was attended by a representative of the applicants, Mr Marek Wójcik. We stressed that it is rare for the applicant to be present at our meeting. The Member has presented us with a proposal for this change. The bill is generally aimed at correcting a mistake or maybe removing a certain oversight that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Quiet, please. Thank you very much. Proceed.]] The bill aims to correct a certain error or to remove the oversight that arose during its procession. Article 1 is amended as follows: 15 and 16 of the Act of 10 May 2018 This is about the agreement of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to carry out water and mountain rescues, so in short we can say that this is about WOPR and GOPR. There's two things after the shift. Regardless of this, an entry must be made in the medical emergency register that keeps the voivode. Besides, it was supposed to be that those permits issued by the Minister of the Interior were only to be valid until the end of the year. This would mean that everyone would have to re-submit all the documents so that they could get this permit again. The procedure for obtaining the licence itself is very complicated and long, so the registration itself, when such authorisation was made, is sufficient. Therefore, this is a short, small amendment, which only changes the fact that the permits issued by the Minister for the Interior will not apply until 31 December 2018 but also after that date. The entry in the voivodship register is decisive here. Even though you have permission, you have to make this entry. The discussion was very brief. For my part, there was one question, such as why during the process of this law it was not noticed that this change would require a really longer process. But you, sir. The Member explained to us that it was the Ministry of Health that examined this law and not the Minister of the Interior which issued it, and therefore there was certainly no consistency and accurate knowledge of the procedure for issuing this permit. Therefore, all members of the committee supported this law unanimously. I move here that the High Senate also adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Basically everything has been explained.]] Of course. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the room: But there's a written statement and a motion...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Secretary is missing right now. I would like to inform you that Senator Tadeusz Kopeć has made a speech to the minutes and has also made a legislative proposal. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint consideration of point three... [[Voices from the hall: No, now it's a break...]] Good. I'm ordering a recess until 1 p.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that adjourned at the request of the Civic Platform Club at 12.00 p.m. I've already announced it. It will be due to the opening of the exhibition to the Marshal in homage. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 54 to 13 minutes 07]] I'm reopening the session. Sorry for the delay, but it's hard to get in here. There are so many journalists. We proceed with the joint consideration of item 3 and item 4 of the agenda: report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017; information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The text of the report is provided in print No 861, and the information is provided in print No 954. The Senate Marshal sent the documents he had received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission examined the report at its meeting on 3 July 2018 and examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal on 17 October 2018. I would like to welcome the President of the Social Dialogue Council, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. Good morning. I also welcome the members of the Social Dialogue Council bureau and representatives of the government. I ask the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, to speak and to present a report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017 and information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the activities of the Council for 2017 and, in accordance with the revised Council Act, information for the duration of my term of office as President of the Council of Social Dialogue. As this information overlaps to some extent, I will begin my speech with a report on the activities of the Council for 2017. This was the beginning of the third year of the Social Dialogue Council. By concluding its Presidency at the end of October 2017, I considered it a huge commitment to carry out the work of the Council so that it could fully pursue the objectives to which it was set up, and that the change of direction or priorities in the government's activities would not affect the redefinition of the essence of social dialogue, which still remains the core of the country's socio-economic policy. It should be stressed And I'm telling you this quite openly and honestly. That all sides of the Social Dialogue Council have tried to exercise their responsibilities in the context of social dialogue, not only through active attendance at meetings, but also through substantive preparation, which guarantees constructive discussions. In presenting today's 2017 report, I would like to thank all the social partners for their commitment to building the position of the Social Dialogue Council and their daily work for it. Thank you. They're here with me today. Thank you for this important, supportive presence. I would also particularly like to thank my predecessor, Mrs Henryce Bochniarz, President of the Confederation of Leviathan, who led the Council's work until October 2017. Since the Presidency of the Social Dialogue Council is a rotating Presidency, last year it was Mrs Henryk Bochniarz who presented information in the Senate after the chairmanship of Piotr Duda ended. Today I present the fruits of her efforts and really thank you very much for your very good cooperation, for your ability to resolve disputes. I must say, in such an excellent group of my predecessors, those who presided over the council, I felt like a debutante at times. Both Piotr Duda and Henryk Bochniarz have such a long experience, whether due to previous cooperation with the Tripartite Commission or with the advice of dialogue... This capital of experience, which they have, will certainly not replace anything. Jan Guz, Chairman of the OPZZ, came to us. Mr President, thank you for this supportive presence. It shows that when one of our representatives presents information, we're here together. A total of 148 meetings of the Social Dialogue Council took place in 2017, including 9 plenary meetings and 14 bureau meetings, 95 meetings of the Council's problem groups, 21 working groups meetings. In the period from 1 January to the end of the reporting period, i.e. until 31 December 2017, the Council adopted 5 resolutions, and the party of employees and employers adopted 34 resolutions. Many of them responded to the referral to the Council for consultation of draft legislative acts whose partners received as many as 571, of which 426 were proposals, government submissions. As a result of our work, we accepted, among others. the resolutions of the parties to workers and employers on the following matters: on the draft law amending the refund law on medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices; on the governmental draft amendment of the law; on the draft law amending certain laws with a view to improving the legal environment of innovative activities; on the draft law amending the act on tax on goods and services and on certain other laws is the public register of VAT taxpayers; on the draft act on public disclosure of life or on the draft law of 11 October on rules for supporting new investments. An extremely important form of the Council's activities is the preparation of positions in expert meetings of problem teams. It is there that, as a result of many hours of discussion, common positions are drawn up, which are then adopted at plenary meetings as a resolution of the social side of the council. The most important ones, because we will not all be mentioned here, include Resolution No 28 on the direction of changes in the health system, Resolution No 34 on the recommendation of changes in the National Training Fund, Resolution No 37 on the labour emigration of workers performing medical professions, Resolution No 47 on the need to develop, in cooperation with the social side, the State's drug policy, the next resolution, No 48 on the recommendation of changes in the education system in the field of vocational training, Resolution No 52 on the establishment of the State Food Safety Inspection and Resolution No 53 on the European Pillar of Social Rights. High Izbo, the Council, as every year, held a debate: on the draft state budget for the following year This is such a permanent point of the Council's meetings On the proposals of average annual wage increases in the state budget area and on the increase in minimum wage for work or on the valorisation of pensions. The work programme of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017 was adopted on a consensus basis with all workers' and employers' organisations, as reflected in Resolution 18 of the Social Dialogue Council. It was a resolution of 8 December 2016 on the approval of the Council's work programme for 2017. There is a principle that, under the terms of consensus, we accept proposals for programming activities every year. What were the main topics in 2017? The first is to review the functioning and develop a draft amendment to the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. We already know today that this bill has been signed by your President. I'll be more specific in a minute. The second point of the work plan is to strengthen the role of the social partners in the management of the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund to improve the functioning of the labour market. The next point is to adapt the skills of workers to the needs of the labour market • to develop solutions for vocational training and the demand-based system for support for lifelong learning. The revision of the rules for the functioning and financing of health protection is the next point in the programme proposals, the fourth point. The fifth point was to support innovation, including a performance review and an assessment of the effectiveness of the tax credit and the preparation of a new bill based on the White Paper of Innovation. The next point, which has also been implemented, is the preparation of assumptions for the new Public Procurement Act, including the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement contracts in the Act and the monitoring of the implementation of the law. The review of the rules for the distribution of social transfers, with particular emphasis on transfers in family policy, was another point of the Social Dialogue Council's programme activities. The eighth point: strengthening the role of partners in the European Semester process, including the inclusion of the Social Dialogue Council in the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy. The latter are the current economic issues, and in particular the problems arising from the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. The implementation of the specific topics that set out the scope of the action in 2017 was entrusted to the Council's problem teams, where they focus, as I said before, sometimes several hours of meetings of the Council's content work. The subject of the plenary meetings of the Social Dialogue Council is consistent with the work plan adopted and this was the case last year. In addition, the issues that the Social Dialogue Council dealt with in 2017 during plenary meetings show that both important socio-economic problems and, of course, current issues that arise and which were difficult to predict during the preparation of the work plan are being introduced into the scope of its work. But there are also forward-looking issues, among others.: the debate "Health as an investment" was the debate during which the social partners stressed the need for changes in the system of financing and health care organisations The future of the European Union's cohesion policy; the role of the social partners in promoting the Polish position on the future budget of the European Union; the application of social clauses in public procurement, i.e. this is the aspect that has already emerged; the directions for work on the assumptions for the amendment of the law of public procurement or such an important reform of vocational education. The Council's debate on the implementation and effects of the action taken in connection with the entry into force of the Law of 16 November 2016 on the revision of the FUS Pension Act, which restored the previous retirement age, was particularly important. The second important law was the Act which introduced individual payers' contributions accounts. We're talking about a law introduced by the Social Security Office, i.e. an e-Compartment. In order to ensure the performance and quality of services provided by the ZUS, 2 implementation projects have been launched. This first project is a pension age reduction project, and the second one, please, is a pension advisor project. And I have to say, it was absolutely a bull's-eye. The proposal to introduce and maintain the functioning of the pension advisor has improved the process of implementing the reform restoring the retirement age, but also significantly improves the quality of information services provided by the Social Insurance Institution, making our knowledge of future pension benefits complete, given very calmly, well in advance, multi-directional. And I must also say that the members of the Council have made it clear that the project itself, because we are talking about the ability to implement pension reform, was introduced by the Social Insurance Institution really exemplary. In 2017, we also worked on solutions to improve the effectiveness of the Council's activities. Let us remember that the council operates on the basis of new legal solutions, so we do not have any long-term experience of functioning in this form. Moreover, we were bound by the current Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, which imposed an obligation to assess its functioning, specifying clearly the time after which we have to carry out this assessment, this period was set at 24 months from the date of the entry into force of the Act Thus, the functioning of the existing legislation has been assessed. These rules simply functioned in practice, in life. We have also identified the areas where they are necessary Or they were, because we're already after these changes. legislative changes aimed at strengthening the Council's activities. Of course, the Regional Councils for Social Dialogue have been involved in these works, in which we carried out this evaluation. These voivodship councils also commented on the functioning of the law already at this regional level. Then, on 19 June 2017, a plenary meeting of the Social Dialogue Council was held at the Presidential Palace on the future of social dialogue in Poland and the proposals for changes that related to this law. As a result, the government's effort, but also the social partners, our joint effort, resulted in the development of recommendations, whose main purpose was to increase the effectiveness and independence of the council. The material was provided as the basis for the later presidential draft amendment of the law. The draft was submitted by the President at the plenary meeting of the Social Dialogue Council on 30 October 2017 and was subsequently addressed to the Sejm. The Council unanimously accepted the proposals for new solutions and on 20 December of the year in favour of which I submitted a report, adopted an appropriate resolution on this matter, expressed its support for this proposal. This project included proposals to improve the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council both at this central level, i.e. in the case of this central national Social Dialogue Council, but also in the case of voivodship councils, i.e. at regional level. And I think that the adoption of this consensus on the amendment of the Social Dialogue Council Act should be considered one of the most important issues that began successfully in 2017 and were successfully completed in 2018. These issues, which the social partners have distinguished, have not been taken into account in this amendment, so what has been adopted has absolutely obtained acceptance, consent of all parties, all participants, including the President, who has prepared this initiative and conducted it through Parliament. On 19 July, but already this year, President Andrzej Duda solemnly signed a law amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, and that law entered into force on 31 August 2018. I'm talking about the fact that he signed it solemnly because the Social Dialogue Council was involved. There were representatives of both employers' and trade union sides, there was the chairman and the bureau of the Social Dialogue Council. It must be made clear that the President is very sympathetic to us and often also welcomes the Social Dialogue Council. But what new competences did the Social Dialogue Council acquire under this law? How did its scope widen? So the council was given the right to evaluate draft strategies, not just draft laws. We are already talking about strategic documents, projects of programmes and projects of other government documents concerning the planned actions of the Council of Ministers. This solution will provide the parties to the council with an impact on the creation of documents other than the law on matters relating to the conditions of socio-economic development, i.e. in the area in which the laws are also... This concerns increasing the competitiveness of the Polish economy, social cohesion, the implementation of the principle of participation and social solidarity, as well as improving the quality of policy formulation and implementation and socio-economic strategies. A new competence is also the right for the Social Dialogue Council to speak to the Senate and the Sejm to give Parliament the opportunity to provide information on matters of importance for the tasks carried out by the Council. So far, there has been no competence, so far we have reported on the activities of the previous year and this has been the case for the Senate. Today we are talking about opportunities for both the Sejm and the Senate. The aim of this proposal is to promote the very idea of social dialogue, to inform the two Chambers more about the work of the Council and to build support for the work that has been done, often with difficulty, positions or opinions. The amendments, High Izbo, also concern the powers to inform the Sejm and the Senate about the activities of the council. So... In addition to the activity report in the previous year, e.g. the 2017 activity reports, which we are presenting annually by 31 May, the draft provides for the President of the Council to provide additional information on the activities of the Council for the term of office of the President until 15 October each year. And that information will be made public. So we are reporting on the activities of our predecessor and on the part of our own activities that this reporting period covers. Not always until the end of the year... So this is not a full year, but a full year's report will be submitted by the next president. The Act provides that the workers' and employers' side will have clear powers to speak to the Minister responsible for public finances This is very important and really very much worked on this solution, with a request for a general interpretation in the event of a mixed application of tax legislation in certain decisions, provisions and individual interpretations. I think that's a major change, too. The introduction of this regulation should improve the situation of workers, hence the efforts of the trade union side, but also employers, because it improves their situation as regards the correct application of tax legislation. It was also proposed to allow the parties and employers to adopt resolutions by means of correspondence voting using electronic means. So if there is an urgent need, the council also uses this modern or modern means of communication, although it is not abused. In turn, as part of the strengthening of regional dialogue, implemented by the Voivodship Councils of Social Dialogue, i.e. in short our WRDS, the competences of the WRDS, voting procedures, principles of financing expertise and opinions were clarified. An important problem that was addressed in 2017 was the problem of allocating additional funds for the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council, as since the beginning of the Act there has been an issue of insufficient resources for WRDS tasks, which should be highlighted. It was guaranteed not only in the Budget Act, because it is obvious, but also in the Council of Social Dialogue Act itself, broken down by WRDS, which, in the light of this change, was even a kind of obstacle. We all recognise and appreciate the huge role of the WRDS, whose effective, effective work is conducive to solving many problems, especially where there are tensions, conflicts at regional level, as the WRDS have the ability to respond quickly to these challenges. The WRDS are also involved in shaping regional policy and contribute to the opinion of development strategy documents. They also have a tangible impact on the local labour market, the regional labour market, the development of conditions for the development of education and the improvement of health services. Therefore, as the Minister in charge of social dialogue in the government, I have taken action to increase the resources I am talking about the grants that are foreseen for the functioning of the voivodship social dialogue councils. And these measures for the operation of the WRDS in 2018 were included in the Budget Act for this year. In turn, the amendment to the RDS Act included an increase in appropriations for the following years, as was the case with this first law, the mother's law, which was adopted in 2015. The amount of WRDS support was increased from less than PLN 1 million to PLN 3 million 200 thousand. And that means that each WRDS receives PLN 200,000 per business. In 2018 we are already talking about solutions that functioned in the current presidency, and in 2018 we continued the issues that were already started at plenary meetings. And they dealt with e.g. modern vocational education, climate policy, health situation, assumptions of the draft budget law for 2019... This is an annual point, as well as the next one, concerning the development of salaries in the budgetary field for 2019. I stress that because here are the proposed changes. There were also arrangements, discussions and debates on the minimum wage in 2019, an increase in the rate of the valorisation of pensions in 2019 and a new regulation of the Public Procurement Act. At its last meeting, the Council discussed the draft budget for 2019 and presented this budget to Minister Czerwińska. and the activities of the government and the social partners on active ageing. Well, this is related to the current and future demographic situation, the progressive phenomenon of the ageing of Polish society and the challenges we face. In 2018, 4 resolutions and 8 resolutions were adopted in which employers and trade unions and employees' parties voted. As President, I attach particular importance to cooperation with the voivodship councils on social dialogue. I'm not doing anything original here because my predecessors have set this bar high and they've been in such constant, close contact with the WRDS. It was Piotr Duda, then Henry the Bochniarz. We see that such a deepening of cooperation should contribute to promoting the best socio-economic solutions in the regions, but it also has the power to promote the very idea of social dialogue. So I tried, as far as possible, to attend the meetings of the voivodship social dialogue councils. I was in Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Warmia-Mazurskie, Wielkopolska and Pomorskie voivodship. But also vice-ministers were at meetings of voivodship councils for social dialogue. I also tried to keep in constant contact with WRDS. I'm sure it's a financial reinforcement. Financial issues have been a kind of limitation of WRDS activity and will increase this commitment and allow these regional councils to work even more effectively in their voivodships. In presenting this information, I would like to thank all the social partners who are here, but also those who cannot be present for a number of serious reasons, like Mrs Henryk Bochniarz, who have retained their responsibilities, President Piotr Duda, who has a national convention, or other partners of ours. For our commitment and for the fact that sometimes, despite the deep differences, we were able to come to an agreement or to conduct this dispute, not emotionally, but technically, I think, for the benefit of all parties. These constructive legislative proposals probably contribute to better social policy, economic policy of the country. I think that this dialogue, which has a 3-year history of functioning on the basis of this law, will continue to improve. It operates in this new shape after the amendment of the Act, since 1 August 2018. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the president's questions? Mr. Senator Rulewski, then Mr. Senator Augustyn and Mr. Senator Napieralski. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u32	Madam Minister, Madam President, I would like to return to 2017, but I will use this bridge that you have created, speaking as President of the Council, which is still functioning, this year. What the Council has done, and in particular what you have done as a representative of the government in order to avoid the bad practice of avoiding dialogue, namely that the draft laws relevant to trade unionists and their families are directed directly to parliament as so-called. parliamentary projects, rarely senator projects, thus eliminating the need for trade union organisations to evaluate them? I will say that at the beginning of 2017, it was revealed that 36 draft laws which had entered the Sejm only 13 had a government seal, although it is impossible to hide that almost all were government-owned, as evidenced by the fact that the Members of the applicants did not come to the Senate meetings at all, and therefore there was no party to the discussion, nor was there a union party. Now let's get to the bottom of this. What is your position, perhaps the Councils of Dialogue also, in view of what is today a symbol of this dialogue? I'm thinking about a strike at LOT. History, actually, the facts are this. First, the president throws people out, then in a court of grace, against the law, criminals... excuse me, later he takes heavy discipline in a court of grace. How does that fit into the labour code? Is it a symbol of dialogue that the president of a state-owned company is directing matters to the prosecution? Is the prosecutor a party to social dialogue at the moment? Is this a practice that will be applied in the near future just to prove that the government can run LOT? Well, he knows how to drive because he doesn't fulfill his employee obligations. Well, that's how they used to do it in slavery, and not exactly. And the third case. How do you assess compliance with the Council's and Minister's declarations that there will be no trash contracts in the governance of a good change? It turned out, and there's no denying that most of the employees at LOT were employed on garbage contracts. That's why it's so economical, because junk deals are junk wages, junk rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u33	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Members have the right of legislative initiative and parliamentary projects are examined by the Sejm. It is difficult to limit the parliamentary initiative. The practice you were talking about is that the government does not present its government proposals and uses the path of parliamentary projects, it is a practice that my ministry does not apply and other ministers do not apply either, because the whole procedure for assessing draft laws is always a guarantee that the quality of the law adopted is higher and the project is socially acceptable. It then passes through the Council of Ministers, through the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, and is longer procedated. This legislative process, of course, is more spread over time, but, as I said, it guarantees us the quality of the law. But in no way can the Social Dialogue Council, the Council of Ministers, nor can anyone limit the capacity and right of Members or the senators to submit legislative initiatives. About the project... What I also did as Vice-President, because in 2016 and 2017 I was Vice-President of the Social Dialogue Council... Of course, every time information or comments to the government party appear in the Council of Social Dialogue, correspondence has always been addressed, or I have made such comments at the Council of Ministers' meeting. Let us also remember that in this shape this social dialogue was built from the very beginning. After what period? After a period where we didn't have a dialogue. The dialogue in previous years has been completely discontinued, and the social partners have refused to cooperate further. I am talking about both sides of the dialogue within the Tripartite Committee. I think there's a colossal difference between the quality of the dialogue that we're conducting and which is, as it happens... As we know, and as the senator probably knows, dialogue is a difficult art, because looking for compromise sometimes makes none of the parties in the end happy, and we find this golden measure. So I have certainly taken these actions, and I think that they are already measurable today, that the social partners could say that those acts that are being assessed within a short period of time or omission, if so, of the Social Dialogue Council, are simply less. Because it's, as I say, very safe and the best path, and besides, it's like we're fulfilling the obligations that are legally imposed on us, so there's no other way. With regard to the dispute and the strike at LOT, as President of the Social Dialogue Council, I have also taken action on this issue. And I also took action as a resort in the part responsible for the work. So we dealt with the conflict of the board of Polish Airlines with trade unions. I am also making it clear here that President Jan Guz has spoken to me with such proposals. Mazowiecka WRDS was on the case, too. The case was discussed at the meeting of the relevant RDS problem team, the RDS problem team. Economic policy and the labour market on 24 September. With the chairman of this team, President Andrzej Malinowski, I also met. He gave me certain documents or suggestions, conclusions, the work of this team. I've redirected this data and these conclusions to the NAP. At the request of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Chief Labour Inspector commissioned the conduct of inspections, which was also the result of our proposal. It has shown irregularities in employers' application of labour law rules. The company was supervised by the State Labour Inspection. We must, ladies and gentlemen, remember that the CEO of each company must abide by the labour law. At the moment, the case is in the process of court, but the district court found the strike illegal. The case is still pending because there was an appeal. So this case by the problem team was and is still being monitored. I'm also in contact with the president of the company and with President Malinowski. But I think the last thing that could be good for solving this very difficult situation in LOT and this conflict is to politicise this problem. That's the last thing that should have happened there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u34	Thank you very much. Any more questions? [[I'm gonna...]] [[Senator Secretary Waldemar Sługocki: No, no, first Senator Augustyn.]] Senator Augustine and then Senator Napieralski and Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u35	I have two questions, Minister. When Mrs Bochniarz, as president of her term of office, previously gave a report, I asked her why the Social Dialogue Council did not deal with laws which, not only in my opinion, but also with many international institutions, including the European Commission, destroyed the justice system that was so important for entrepreneurs and workers and threatened the rule of law. Finally, we heard in this report that Mrs Henryk Bochniarz made such a proposal on behalf of employers. Please tell me: why wasn't he discussed, but rejected, as we were told at the committee meeting? What was the position of you and the government on this matter? And second question. In general, the government comes to meetings on specific topics with its position. Dialogue should mean that positions, which are very often divergent, are getting closer together. How many times did the government change their position?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the government has repeatedly changed positions. Please also note that there are certain procedures. There are procedures that clearly define the procedure for dealing with minimum remuneration. And I will use this example. By 15 June, we will present a minimum wage proposal. Social partners have their time. If the social partners fail to reach an agreement among themselves, a further procedure will be put in place, according to which, by 15 September, the government party will present its proposal for a minimum wage, except that this amount may not be lower than the one proposed in June. And that's what happened. The amount was proposed and was not accepted by the social partners. Each partner made a different proposal. The government was in a situation where it could say that the employers' and workers' side had not come to an agreement. Our proposal is the final proposal. We had a different proposal - 2 thousand 250 PLN. This is an example of this change. With regard to the opinion of the regulation on the state budgetary sphere, i.e. the average annual growth rates in the budgetary sphere, the proposal which was made at the preliminary stage of the work on the budget was a completely different proposal than the one we adopted. The original proposal concerned an increase in the remuneration appropriations in line with the inflation rate of 2,3%. Finally, the budgetary increase mechanism adopted and included in the budget law is a complex mechanism but also a much higher rate of remuneration after the eight-year freezing period. I repeat, after eight years of freezing. The union party wanted the government to raise their wages by 12%. This is how losses in wage increases were calculated in years where the previous governing team did not raise at all, did not value wages in the budgetary sphere, which led to a disregulation of the wage mechanism. And we had to look for mechanisms to take into account those who are, so to speak, employed on multipliers, non-multiplier workers and institution staff, which the High Senate probably knows very well about, because there are interpellations on salaries in health care or veterinary inspections. I could probably name 15 or 20 institutions that struggled with card drains for many, many years. And that requires order. It's done. In the first year of our governments, salaries in the budgetary sphere increased, and in the second year they also increased. They have increased not as a result of a percentage increase in the algorithm, this multiplier, but more expenditure on personnel costs. This time it is a completely different mechanism from what has been proposed. It was also the case that in 2017 the government proposed a higher minimum remuneration than the trade unions had proposed. I'm not talking about representative employers' organisations anymore. It's in the history of minimum wage fixing that has never happened before. I could say that there are more projects like this. On the one hand, we have employers' organisations and, on the other hand, trade union organisations. Their interests seem completely divergent at first. We're looking for consensus. We have an employee market today, and if we don't give a good wage proposition, then this employee just won't have it. I think there have been more cases like this, and the fact that we don't always get along... Let's see how the budget bill is assessed. First, the whole Social Dialogue Council... First, both sides have time to establish a common position. If they do not establish it, they have time to establish it, that is, all trade unions can have their positions and all employers can have their positions. If the parties fail to establish this position, they may have separate positions, each of the trade union organisations and employers' organisations may have a position. In a situation where we get so many different positions that do not have a common denominator, the decision is not evidence of a lack of government consultation, but of finding a solution in a situation where an agreement between the social partners was not possible. As regards the first question, please also pay attention to the competences of the Social Dialogue Council. We are also talking about socio-economic issues and there must be consensus here to establish a work plan or proposals and present them in plenary of the Social Dialogue Council. [[What was the government's position?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: One at a time.]] [[I'm the one signing up.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u37	Wait a minute. The next question you ask is Senator Augustine. [[He was.]] It's Senator Napieralski now. [[I...]] [[Mr. Marshal, the senator asked because he has a committee hearing, and I'll be right with you after the senator...]] [[Yeah, because I have to go to training...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u38	Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. As a rule of law monitoring team, we were also approached by the chairman of the customs trade unions on 16 November 2016 to deal with the National Tax Administration Act. This is the unfortunate bill that extinguished as a result of an introductory act without recourse to the courts for all employees, pregnant women, unionists, etc., all... We asked the Prime Minister to bring the matter to the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council because we believe that this case has affected a large number of employees, in general tax workers. Did you, as the Social Dialogue Council, have this matter on your agenda and have you dealt with it? If it wasn't, I'd be appealing for her to take care of it, because things have gone a long way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u39	Well, maybe I'll have the Minister... [[President of the Social Dialogue Council Elżbieta Rafalska: Senator...]] ...to answer two questions in total.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u40	Ms Senator, the issue of employees and National Tax Administration has been raised several times at the meetings of the team and has been discussed with representatives of the Minister, Deputy Minister Banas and all competent representatives of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u41	Senator Napieralski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question is as follows. Well, when I observe what is happening with regard to social dialogue, after your party or coalition of the United Right, I have the impression that there is indeed one partner in this dialogue, Mr Duda and the Union of Solidarity. When he summons the state 'I use the word 'cause he's mostly calling the government. You're begging for his call. Other partners have no such privilege. How would you like to comment on how you will respond to the statement that one trade union is preferred in this dialogue, and the rest of the unions, the trade union centers, aren't?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, our partners are very aware of our partners and, as I said at the beginning, very experienced. They would not make such a mistake in breaking the reciprocity of relations in the Social Dialogue Council, seeking some particular benefits for their organizations. I attended meetings with Mrs Henryki Bochniarz, I met with President Malinowski, I sent Mr Guz to Deputy Minister Zielenecki, because I could not be myself, I was at the meeting of the National Commission for Solidarity. Nowhere has the principles set out in the Dialogue Act been broken. No agreement that would indicate that any of the partners is privileged has taken place. I would like to say that this is not the case, Senator, that we have been head of the Social Dialogue Council for three years, because this is a completely new solution. I must say, this is perhaps the greatest strength of this council, i.e. this rotation of the chairmen. This rotation is probably the most valuable acquis, because the period of the year is a very short period to evaluate. We always have a predecessor who was very good, and the last one maybe even better. So we're always trying at least to keep up with our predecessor, and that's not enough... Everyone simply wants to show that they can conduct this dialogue. At the same time, each of the chiefs is in an extremely difficult situation, I ask you, because as head of the trade union may want conflict, this conflict may be cost-effective to him for various reasons, but when he becomes head of the Social Dialogue Council, he must demonstrate his ability to build social dialogue even with those who may have recently been his competition or his union or party or political. So the power of their influence, whether the Land or employers, or my government, is then completely different. Surely, there were initiatives that led to this cooperation with the Solidarity movement being closer. The President submitted a draft law on the restoration of the retirement age, and it was indeed supported by previous efforts and referendums, and the commitment of the trade union, but there were also other partners, other union partners also supported the restoration of the retirement age. So I think this balance is a value that I'm trying to preserve. And I think the social partners, because we're talking about the representative trade union side. They know that this line has not been crossed anywhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u45	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u46	Thank you. Minister, you spoke about the dialogue before 2015, that he was impossible. I remember exactly what the trade unions were doing at the time, the conditions of trade unions, the employee party. For eight years, I was the chairman of the Regional Social Dialogue Committee and I know that we were able to solve all the cases. The new law you're talking about, the 2015 law, actually has two positives. This is the financial reinforcement of the WRDS, I agree with that, and this rotation that you were just talking about. It's important. But what are the effects of this new change? This is the most important thing to me. There was a speech just now, among others. about the PLL LOT case. Minister, contact in such a stalemate as is currently is not enough, immediate action is needed. If the Prime Minister does not take them, the Social Dialogue Commission should take action here on its own initiative, because this is about security. What are the threats, we know, we know the situation in which PLL LOT is in, he boasts, etc., but we know what it looks like on the other hand and why. This is where you need immediate action. And I appeal to you to take such action. And my question is that... of course, we have in this information a provision that the Social Dialogue Council is the most important institution of national dialogue, that it is a forum for cooperation and dialogue, and a trilateral committee, etc. However, we have such information that trilateral arrangements are unfortunately rare. In 2017, only five were accepted. My question is, then, why are there so few such arrangements accepted, because only five, many, probably several dozens of them were made? Why so little if it's so good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u47	I'm gonna go back to WRDS. In my opinion, the WRDS in the new formula work smoothly. After improving their financial situation, they work much better because they have so far struggled with the problem of financing this task. The situation is also connected with the other voivodship councils of social dialogue, because now they are not in government administration, as it was in the previous legal solution when they were in voivodships, only now they are in marshals Which is also a strengthening of the self-government side. But regardless of where it is implemented, the principle of rotation also applies there. Here I will tell you that sometimes I went to the meeting of such a council of social dialogue with some concerns about whether it would be a case of bodies whose activities would also be political and more political. 'Cause you can have that kind of fear. But it didn't happen. Regional problems are brought together by the parties, and even if there was a dispute between them, there was no policy at all. I'm talking about the meetings I've been to. Many social dialogue councils refer not only to regional issues, to opinions on strategies for the development of their own voivodship, to problems of their own region, to information about the region, but also to legal solutions. It's a matter of common positions. Dialogue is conducted even when there are no common arrangements, such as those I have spoken of. But I might as well turn this question back a little bit, which you are addressing to me as President of the Social Dialogue Council, not as Minister, and I could ask the social partners today why there is so little agreement, why we could not communicate, for example. on remuneration in the budgetary area, minimum remuneration and other matters. Because it's not a dialogue and a consensus, if we're saying... This trialogue requires not only one or two sides to agree, but three. And if he doesn't want to find an agreement, And sometimes it's not just through a substantive solution. And for this there will be an inability to mediate, resentment or hostility, it will simply not be the solution. But it's not entirely up to the government. If there is to be an opinion and a common position of the social partners, but the social partners have not developed this position The social partners are the employers' and trade union parties' sides, and the government is not responsible for this, which is the third party to the agreement. But, of course, our goal is to make these agreements happen. But there were also situations when resolutions and works, like those on the provisions of the Public Procurement Act... I've never seen such a concerted and model cooperation between Deputy Minister Haladyy before. Do I remember correctly? The social partners. It shows that this cooperation is possible. And she does, but it depends on all sides. And this is also an effect that we do not see, because very often our assessments are assessments resulting from the presence in the media, from conflicts that are publicised, and where a position is literally developed in the post office and in many hours of discussion, we see only the output, the final effect, which is also composed of this work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u48	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u49	Minister, I would like to refer to the question asked by Senator Grażyna Anna Sztark because your answer is incomplete or was not the answer to that question. The Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team in March dealt with the subject of the end of employment relations. This mainly concerned customs officers, but not only, but also, among others. agricultural agencies. We have asked the Prime Minister to address this issue by the Social Dialogue Council. We received one answer, i.e. That the Minister collects information... the Prime Minister collects information from three ministries on the scale of this phenomenon. And that's it. We've been waiting for an answer since April. I understand that since the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team has not received this information, this means that the Social Dialogue Council has not dealt with this subject. And since she wasn't in charge, I'd like to know if you know about our proposal, the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team's proposal. Is it procedated? Is there a Social Dialogue Council meeting on this subject envisaged?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u51	Mr. Senator, the senator asked me about the National Tax Administration. [[This also applies to the National Tax Administration. But also the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration...]] That's a follow-up to that question. With regard to the National Tax Administration and this correspondence which is addressed to us, I will say that it is automatically addressed to substantive teams which, in really competent submissions, are working to analyse the matter and then present it at the Bureau meeting or, as far as the final issues are concerned, at the Social Dialogue Council. If that's the answer... I remember that he was... Like I said, I don't know what it looks like for agriculture, I don't remember that, because it's the teams that are working on it. I do not participate in the work of these teams, the information is presented by the chairmen of each team. I can prepare this information in writing to the senator, but I can say with a high degree of probability that there is no, or at least there should be, such situations that, as far as proposals that are addressed to me as chair of the board of dialogue are concerned, whether the Social Dialogue Council is not being given the course of the matter. This can't be happening to me. I'll prepare a written reply, more satisfying to the senator. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues that are interministerial concern all resorts are so much that it is difficult to give a detailed answer e.g. on matters falling within the remit of the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Finance or another Minister. This is all the more so because, as I said, a team of content is working on it, and vice-ministers and department directors are involved, and the work is absolutely working. And usually it is that the heads of the teams are representatives of the social side, and if they are dissatisfied, they can dig the subject so hard that they can torture to reach either the required level of information or the handling of the matter. I'll prepare a written reply. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u52	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u53	I understand that it is possible that the letter we sent to the Prime Minister did not reach you. I'm the one who's gonna make sure... I'll send this letter to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u54	There you go. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go. You're the next one to sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is an issue, I would say, almost universal all over the world, about the problem of economic emigration. In Poland it is especially a phenomenon that I praise, i.e. opening Poland to economic emigration e.g. from Ukraine. But there are charges... Does the Social Dialogue Council deal with this? That's the problem. not for a year, and for years That emigration serves to strangle wage increases? In Poland, wages are low Everyone around the world says that small, but in Poland there are really small wages It is alleged that the Council of Dialogue is not doing anything to ensure that this emigration is not a factor in reducing the benefits. Is the Council dealing with the problem of market design in terms of the share of emigration? It's about the labour market.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u56	Please. [[The labour market.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u57	Mr. Senator, you don't appreciate the social partners, especially the union side, but I must honestly say that employers' sides, who are in a specific situation today, because we are dealing with something that unionists, the social side, could only dream about so far. We have an employee market and, finally, after many years, none of the employees looking for employment will hear: we have 10 people in your place or yours. We have waited many years for this, but this market also has certain problems, such as the fact that our wages are still far from paying in the West. We are still unable to stop this economic emigration, although growth is at 7%. And if we add a year after a year of these few percent, it's going to be felt. As a minister responsible for the labour market and for the situation of families, the situation of workers, I am very much in favour of the fact that in Poland not only the minimum wage should increase, because the minimum wage should reach the minimum number of employees. This should be a short experience, for a short period of employment, and the practice is that sometimes people after 30 years have a minimum salary, which is still included in internship. Well, that's a deep injustice, ladies and gentlemen. If we look at whether we are dealing with a suffocation of wages and whether it is so that foreign workers today are worse, less remunerated, then we will see that this has changed very much in relation to what was in 2016 or 2017. Today we already know that there is a flow of these workers and that their Polish earnings, even at the same level as Polish workers, do not satisfy them. So they choose directions better paid, they go to Germany or even further. But of course these problems were raised in the team, in the board of dialogue in both 2017 and 2018, also in the ministry. Work on the Labour Market Act also takes these issues into account. This is a serious problem. The latest figures that show the scale of contributions paid to the Social Insurance Institution, to the FUS, show that this figure is probably more than... Well, there's a lot more than 500,000 people who are employed. We know that employers today regret that workers who are trained We're talking about workers here, for example. Ukraine or Belarus In which they invested to prepare them well for work, they work short and leave, looking for another job. In order to stop them, employers today do not give them short-term employment, but employment contracts. Indeed, this structure of employment is changing strongly, but we see this problem. I am also a person who would like Polish workers to return to Poland after brexita and carry out here, as well as these trips For the reasons we are talking about here, and therefore because it is possible to make better money here, it has been reduced professionally. And I certainly am not in favour of reducing wages, although we must also take into account the complexity of this situation. I remember when we were bragging... I've never done this before, but we used to boast about low labour costs in Europe, and it's not those extra-personal costs, but low personal costs. Well, it's been a complete misunderstanding, but I hope that's a story that's partly behind us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u58	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Did the Social Dialogue Council address the issue that our countrymen in the United States have signaled to me? The point is that if one of our compatriots decides to return permanently to the country at retirement age, it is because of the unfavourable rules and the unratification by the American party of the 2009 agreement. I can't remember exactly right now. On avoiding double taxation and a whole range of other conditions, whose short time for questions does not allow us to develop... But was the problem raised? Because in the sense of our compatriots their return to the country and encouragement from the government, and indeed many of them would like to return to Poland for the fall of their lives and spend the rest of their lives here, after reaching retirement age... Well, it turns out that they are financially double-taxed, which significantly reduces their pension benefits. Did this problem arise during the Council's deliberations? And has the High Council considered this issue? And if so, with what result? This request was made in all my meetings with my fellow countrymen, and I had them in many American cities, and no matter what city, the Poles treated it as the most important problem in terms of relations between them and the Polish Commonwealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u60	Certainly, Senator, the issue of double taxation related to pension benefits of Polish citizens living in the United States was not the point of a separate meeting of the Social Dialogue Council or even the bureau. I don't remember, almost all of them, or all of the meetings I've been to. I don't have any information that the team was dealing with this issue either, even though I haven't decreed problems for three years, I've done it in the last year. But I don't think so. The problem is known in the Ministry and that's where we dealt with it. The issue is also related to the fact that this is not a specific solution, which is an exceptional solution between the United States and Poland, but is a regulation relating to all countries with which such agreements are concluded. And here the United States does not apply any special regulations. This establishment is known in the Social Insurance Institution. We have had parliamentary interpellations and senators' interventions on this issue on several occasions, but not in the Council of Social Dialogue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u61	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u62	Thank you. Minister, let me get back to my question. I said, I said this sentence, that the contact in the case of PLL LOT is not enough, that there is a need for immediate action, that the situation is very critical in PLL LOT. We know what the situation of the pilots is, that they are going to pay 600 and 800 thousand. Well, it's clear that these pilots are about to find themselves in other carriers and LOT will have massive problems. He's having trouble with the fleet, leasing, etc. A lot of people were fired. There's going to be a stalemate in a minute. It's been going on for a week. So my question to you was whether you, as President, would not come up with an initiative, would not take immediate action at the moment, which is needed, to resolve the situation, because it could be very dangerous, and also for security reasons, in the coming hours or days. That's why I'm repeating this question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would be far from saying that our knowledge is comprehensive knowledge, full knowledge, and not random knowledge based only on the data we have from the media. Thus, it would be difficult to determine on the basis of this information. All the interventions I could've taken, I'm taking. Let us also remember that there is ownership supervision, which is exercised directly over the company by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We must also not forget that LOT has been making a profit since 2016 and that LOT's Management Board must cut back on many pathologies that have grown in the company over the years; that what is also the source of this conflict, i.e. the change in wage regulation, is the event of 2013. So these aren't all the problems that arose during this new presidency after the change. I'm sure the Prime Minister wants the Treasury company to function well. Nor can we, bearing in mind the loss of the current strike, forget that the company that could have stayed earlier... whose operation After all, LOT was close to being sold as well. So today we must act very skillfully here. I think as long as there's a chance that two sides can communicate, we have to let that happen. I also have one... like I told you before, I spoke to the chief labour inspector, he did the inspection, we're under constant surveillance. I am certainly also in favour of these more civilised forms of employment in both state Treasury companies and ministries. It's just that we're talking about companies. Ladies and gentlemen, who should hit their chests, should strike and tell us where we have a decline in the form of such trash employment, who sanctioned it, who took into account all the economic calculations that took into account this nature of employment. And these increased pathologies or irregularities and employment, and employment relations, and others, require delicate changes, but they also require time, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are not talking about the threat of this company, our carrier, but about the regulation of a dispute. I do not feel competent here at the moment to determine, on the basis of this information, who is right, since he has not yet made a definitive statement on this matter. The county court said the strike was illegal. Of course, there are issues that I have directly discussed with the President of LOT concerning these softer areas. But is any of us, ladies and gentlemen, able, able to decide and enter the role of a judge who will say that he is right, and that he is wrong that no one is to blame? Well, as I understand it, the legal aspect of this issue is absolutely fundamental. And if there's a violation of the law... Well, there's nothing simpler than proving this aspect of violation. The discussion with the crew, the substantive discussion, requires competence and knowledge of issues which are related to this company. If there's a moment when they're gonna be... 'Cause I've heard about these declarations that the mediators are ready. Perhaps there will be a time when these mediators will need to be used. But, well, there's nothing worse than escalating conflict and trying to evaluate it all in terms of political action. Because it doesn't lead to anything. It doesn't lead to anything, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u64	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] No one's checking in. Thank you very much, Minister. [[President of the Council for Social Dialogue Elżbieta Rafalska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Wcisła. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a look at the issue of social dialogue in Poland at all. The symbol of this dialogue is numerous demonstrations, pickets, police on the streets, barriers around Parliament. The inability to introduce social partners' committees is something that is very meaningful. And while the Social Dialogue Council, as we hear from the Minister, is doing well, it is certainly as conflicting as we have never had before. [[Who brought this on?]] This is a symbol of the fact that social dialogue is probably the most desirable good in Poland today, now. And if the aim of the Social Dialogue Council after the break from the social partners' table was to nullify these social divisions if it was to restore the sense of domination to many citizens and groups, their organisations, if the purpose of the new Social Dialogue Council was to be a sense of law-making in Poland, which concerns all of us, then it must be said that these general assumptions are very far from being implemented. Technically, the council is functioning, gathering, but we here, in Parliament, in the Senate, know what the quality of the law is, we know how many times it was possible to really debate with the social partners, and how many times it was not allowed, we could not even enter committee meetings. [[Voice from the room: You could have.]] And that is why when Mrs Henryk Bochniarz was here, I said that it was crucial to restore the situation in which we will have confidence in the rule of law, in the justice system, in democratic institutions, when we can work in Parliament in a normal way, not at night, not in a dozen hours. And then Mrs Henryk Bochniarz told me, already on the side, that she would make such a proposal so that the Council of Social Dialogue could address the issue of laws on justice. During the committee's deliberations, I heard that such a proposal had actually been received and, unfortunately, it was rejected, because the mechanism of the Council's work is so designed that in order for it to take a position, it must be a common position. [[That's right.]] If he doesn't have permission, he doesn't have a job. I had the opportunity on 7 June to be at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council's budget, salary and social benefits team, to present together with the Member a draft law that was born here in the Senate, an act on helping independent people. I don't want to talk about a bill that hasn't even been sent to the committee and that will come back to us, perhaps, in the future. But I had a chance to see what the mechanism was, hence the question to the Minister, who, I see, listens very carefully to me, and thank you. I asked how many times the government changed positions. [[President of the Council for Social Dialogue Elżbieta Rafalska: A lot.]] Well, I heard the answer that a lot, I mean. more than two, according to the dictionary definition, and that's pretty much right. However, the truth is that this great body, an important body, has adopted, according to this report, a really small number of resolutions. Very few projects have been taken care of. And indeed, at this sitting where I was, the former Deputy Minister and the Deputy Minister said this: we have a negative position. The question is, do you have the authority to change it? And the answer is no, I don't have that authority. So what are we discussing? The president of this team asked. What are we discussing? When I presented this situation at the committee meeting, the representative of the "Solidarity" confirmed that this was the case, that in most cases there was nothing to talk about. We can log in, which means we can talk, and it's supposed to be the way the government wants it, what position it takes. Because those who come have no mandate for dialogue. That's the reality of working on the council. Of course, there are special laws. And that's what the minister was talking about. When really this dialogue is possible. It's about the budget bill, the lowest salary, etc. In this case, there are indeed mechanisms for drawing up consensus. And if he's not here, then that's a definite procedure. However, in a huge number of cases it looks so that the dialogue is absolutely apparent. This is a place to put forward positions, not a dialogue, because dialogue should lead to an agreement. This is the purpose of the dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, and the issue that should be troubling... here and in the Seym, a team has mastered the ability to avoid dialogue, even to gain a position. This is, of course, reporting parliamentary billings, less often senate. They were over 40% all laws adopted in 2017. But of course they were not, because in many cases they could not be the subject of the Council of Social Dialogue, and yet 125 such laws were addressed to the Council. And do you know how long it's been going to be? Two out of 34, all government and parliamentary, which have been accepted. That's 6%. This is what it looks like, these are the statistics here, in this document. So the speed of passing laws, often extremely important, causes these laws to be bad, come back to us, you know that country. After a month, after two, after a quarter, at the latest after a year, we change something that was wrong from the beginning. The bad news is that they didn't listen in this room or in committee meetings... There wasn't even a chance to listen to the social side, because the Social Dialogue Council couldn't handle it, because dealing with a matter requires consensus. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that there is still a table to which the partners sit, because there was a moment that was not there either. There was the determination of the rulers. I believe that now it is. I don't want to break it. Therefore, the Platform Government and PSL presented an amendment to the Act, agreed with partners, about the Social Dialogue Council. This is our project. It is good that it is praised, it is good that it works somehow, but in addition to institutional dialogue in the Council of Social Dialogue it is necessary to create mechanisms for reaching agreement, to create mechanisms to avoid this dialogue. [[Time's up, Senator.]] And that is why, Minister, I believe that the potential that lies in this law has not yet been put into operation, even in the tenth part of the act. The point is that we should be sure that the situation that you mentioned was dramatic and that we all felt that the dialogue was finally broken was not happening. These strikes, which are even ongoing now, do not have to be, but may be a signal that if there is no effective institutional dialogue, it will be a confrontation. Just as it happened in politics, it can happen in the future in social life. The Social Dialogue Council was supposed to prevent this. I'm afraid that's not the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u66	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak as an observer of a certain system process which was launched in Poland after 1989, and in particular in 1992, when the Business Act provided for and introduced the Tripartite Commission for. Social Economy. Indeed, this committee, which has been operating for many years in much more difficult conditions, because during the violent, wide and deep - Whatever it is. The changes, not only reforms, but also total changes in the system, passed their exam. And it was right that in 2015, during the period of regression of the dialogue, as mentioned by the Minister, Minister Kosiniak-Kamish took the initiative to stimulate this council by increasing the parities of the social partners, especially trade unions and employers. And it really is. I would like to point out here that after the change of the governing team for the first 2 years the initiatives presented by the government in the social field were a beneficial soil for social peace in Poland. That's the truth. It must be said here... that the current government's social policy option finds recognition in my eyes. However, it cannot be recognised that the government is monopolising this dialogue as merely its achievement and that the partners are merely decorations. It's not always like that. Minister, I agree, not always. And I wouldn't even be able to suspect you of that. Not always, but on many groundbreaking issues it is, especially recently, due to, as it is said, haste or other factors, partners... They even write about it in what you've presented, especially Solidarity. They think they're underrated. Well, maybe it's a union illness that the social partners in every country always think they're underappreciated, but it's true that it's what Solvency writes about, which is unable to give a positive opinion on this report. And that matters. This is certainly the case with Senator Augustine, who has shown it to me, and I am experiencing it on a daily basis during the deliberations of both committees, in particular the Social Policy Committee, which focuses most on issues relating to social policy. In the case of many projects, there is a remark that these are not government projects, but parliamentary projects or, to a lesser extent, senators' projects, and therefore there is no opinion on them. And of course there aren't even any representatives... And even if they come, they say, well, we don't really know what to say, because we don't know what's on the agenda at all. I'm not talking about the fact that I don't think there's a month left to consult. The last example, Minister, is a solidarity fund. What a beautiful name, what a beautiful matter. There were opinions of trade unions, they will be considered in a moment. Excuse me, but the senators have been here today by a highly respected Marshal of Karczewski, informed that in a few minutes there will be work on this bill, read: the resolution. Read those words of mine. You may be offended. In the past tense. So, this bill is already approved, and we're just gonna tap it. Well, since there is no dialogue with the Supreme Chamber, which also organises the consultation process, its consultation process, I believe all those opinions that say that the more the trade unions... The second drawback of this dialogue, Madam Minister, was that the government, even if its projects, which constitute a minority, a significant minority, sends to trade unions, changes the essential content of the laws in running, and this is no longer subject to negotiation. That's what happened. Oh, thank you for this time, Minister... We know each other well, I think we're even friends. And so it happened, among others. with the pension scheme, the entry for the recognition of traineeships or Saturdays and Sundays was amended at the last minute... Sorry, it's a Sunday free trade. And there are more cases like that, but time doesn't allow us to illustrate it. Minister, I will now move on to this constructive part of my speech. I think it's in this group. In particular, Marshal Seweryński is an expert, a great expert on labour law, we can... The charge I am referring to the Minister is that you have not accurately passed on to the public, why, despite many years of work in this area, work on the Labour Code is not continued. And all indications are that the new code of work in this term of office will not see the light of day. Why am I talking about the work code? Not only because he is the one who shapes this principle of dialogue, of course there is a law on the Council of Dialogue and it has its own dimension, completely different But also because it was to be the regulator of dialogue at the level of betting, industry or even, I would say, areas. This field is not regulated, apart from systems, for example. employment of administrative staff, public administration. That's over 2 million people. And it's slipping out of the dialogue, but not the one at the central level, which, as you've shown here, is almost proven to be dynamic indeed. In order for this dialogue not to go out on the street so that it does not only take place in offices, it has to take place first at the level of the establishments, in the workplaces. And I call on the board of dialogue to address this issue, although it is mentioned here that such a conference took place, but that there were no conclusions. This new code, which I mentioned, should include this. Why deals... Not only because there is the possibility of this dialogue, but also because there is control, there is stability. For a moment, we're going to talk about the PPK, which have this flaw, that they're not backed up by agreements, actions, they don't have a social controller. And that's the first point. Second note. I think the government is too offensive on this council. There are countries where dialogue takes place between two partners: the government and employers. I note the excessive aggression of the government, the intrusion and dictation of decisions. It has this flaw that the government, as a more credible institution, assumes responsibility for the solutions. And the extreme example is the Minister. I think that your colleague will be able to convey this to my colleague, and that regardless of what I think of other trade unions, I am a member of the "Solidarity," is the fact that the Prime Minister, during the election campaign, goes to the representatives of the union, even if my union "Solidarity," and presents solutions for raising salaries for these 2 million... [[President of the Council for Social Dialogue Elżbieta Rafalska: Not in the campaign. It wasn't on the campaign.]] Yes, unfortunately, there was a meeting before the campaign, but for example. Minister Jaki and Trzakowski's campaign lasted for a year and a half. That means preference, that means preference. I want to live in a country where I think art speaks about it. 2nd Constitution We are all equal and we must be treated equally. This also applies to institutions of public life. And even more so, when the government artificially prints out the circles of rural housewives from the union institutions and gives them, let's face it, 60 million PLN during the campaign. We'll be working on it in a minute. This is political corruption. This is interference in trade unions, far-reaching interference in trade unions. Also earlier, I can give other examples, e.g. The trade union of individual farmers, for which I have fought, has been given preference in the form of the possibility of erasing damages. It's a violation of the union rights convention. In this situation, I also have a request to limit the union action to shaping this dialogue. In fact, dialogue should take place between trade unions and employers' organisations. The government, I believe, should take part in this, but should act as a mediator rather than a perpetrator. And then there's the third issue. [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. What to do... Except I won't answer, because neither time allows it, nor I have a solution, I'll admit it. [[Or do you want an extra five minutes?]] Yes. [[Well, here you go, 'cause no one's ever signed up again. There you go.]] Good. That's the issue. The dialogue then makes sense, the right being, and it follows the right of our country in the article. 20 Constitutions on the Social Market Economy, when it covers the universal mass or working. Unfortunately, there is a social regression, which means that it can be said that the question is whether we have a social market economy, since the trade unions are 14%. , and they are toothless, because these collective agreements cannot be assumed very much, there are few, and the higher, the less, actually, there is no, which I have shown. But also employers' organisations for unknown reasons, although they have broad preferences, are not organisations, I would say, influential and universal. That is the question that stands before all of us. If we want to keep this, say, an algorithm of democracy in the form of a social market economy, we should answer the question of how to make it common, so that the situation, in other words, does not crawl out, as in the case of nurses, doctors, on the streets, in the lightrooms or in the hospital rooms where hunger was conducted, protests were organized, so that it was not like in LOT that the unionists, the unionists are fired first and others are bribed. Yeah, because there was a strike, a union president was fired, and 67 employees who didn't sign up. But the point is, Mr. President... I don't get it. Ask the Minister there for coffee, of course, and I'm not talking about punishing you right now. But handing the case over to the D.A. in a situation where the president hasn't taken advantage of all the other options is a big exaggeration. I accept that unionists are actually dynamic, that they fight, right, but scaring isn't the way. And the corruption, the fact that if they're good, I'll take them to work... This is humiliation. Even Margaret Thatcher didn't use it. To conclude, then, Mr Marshal, I would like to say that in my speech I am asking for a deepening of dialogue, for the continuation of this, for new initiatives, for the mediation work of the government, for the cutting back on the promotion of trade union policies and for genuine, genuine conduct. constitutional dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, like to comment on the senators' speeches? [[I'll leave. You don't have to...]] [[President of the Council of Social Dialogue Elżbieta Rafalska: No, no.]] Thank you, Minister, for presenting the Senate with a report and information. I state that the Senate took note of the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for 2017 and of the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 967 and the report of the committee In print No 967 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report of the committee and then the conclusions of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Invited guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the discussion that took place last week on changes to the Law on State Labour Inspection; print No 967. The Law on State Labour Inspection adopted by the Sejm at its sixty-nineth meeting introduces a regulation whereby an employee... [[It doesn't make any sense.]] It introduces a regulation whereby a staff member of the State Labour Inspection carrying out checks will be required to make a written statement of conduct or not to carry out the closest business activity, the subject of which coincides with the subject-matter of the inspection carried out by that staff member. The law provides that the closest person is the person referred to in Article. 115 §11 of the Criminal Code, i.e. the spouse, initial, immediate, siblings, co-ordinated in the same line or degree, the person remaining in the relationship of adoption and her spouse, and the person remaining in the common life. The said statement shall be submitted by the staff member within 30 days of the date of employment as a member of the staff carrying out the inspection activities. In addition, the staff member carrying out the inspection shall be required to update the declaration within 30 days of the date of occurrence of the reason for the update. A model declaration shall be drawn up by the Chief Labour Inspector by way of an order. In accordance with the transitional provision, employees of the State Labour Inspection carrying out control activities on the date of entry into force of the Act will be required to make appropriate declarations within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the amendment. The Act will enter into force 14 days after its publication. The government representative present at the committee meeting gave a positive assessment of the bill submitted. He stressed that labour inspectors should be impartial in their work and not be able to participate in the interests of the controlled entities. It follows from the provisions that the staff of the State Labour Inspection are prohibited from conducting activities which would be contrary to the interests of the institution or could lead to suspicion of bias or interest. However, these rules are too general and do not explicitly state that they also include a situation where the inspector controls the operator involved in the business of the person closest to him. Thus, the arrangements provided for by the Act allowing the management of the State Labour Inspection to gain knowledge of the existing links between the activities carried out by the members of the inspector's family and the subject of its possible control will enable the proper organisation of his work and ensure the transparency of his control proceedings. The Legislative Office pointed out that the regulation in question could give rise to interpretation doubts, which would cause problems with its application. The regulation does not indicate to whom, to which entity such a declaration should be made. If the person responsible for receiving a statement from the worker is to be the Chief Labour Inspector, we propose that this issue be settled directly in the law by introducing an amendment indicating that he is the Chief Labour Inspector. The government representative present at the committee meeting did not support such a proposal. He considered that such an amendment was not necessary. The Legal Office also drew attention to the broad catalogue of people closest to the employee carrying out the inspection activities set out in the article added to the Act. Article 44a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This directory is very wide, as I mentioned earlier. Consequently, there may be a problem with a staff member of the State Labour Inspection being duly satisfied with the information obligation for the persons closest to the economic activity referred to in the provision, the subject matter of which coincides with the subject-matter of the inspection carried out by that staff member. A staff member of the State Labour Inspection will not always be able to determine for all persons who are covered by the definition of "close person', whether they carry out certain activities and whether that activity remains in any relation to the performance of his duties. The imposition by the legislator of obligations which may be difficult to fulfil by the addressee may, in the view of the Legislative Office, be assessed in the context of the democratic rule of law and, in particular, the resulting principle of legal certainty The employer's loyalty to the addressee of the legal standard. In addition, the Legislative Office pointed out that making a statement that was incorrect or not updating was inappropriate in carrying out its duties as a basis for the termination of the employment relationship by notice or a serious breach of its basic obligations as a basis for the termination of the employment relationship without termination of the employee's guilt. The Bureau proposed to regulate this matter directly in the Act. 3 proposals were presented at the committee meeting. They reflect the discussion that took place in the context of the government's position and in the context of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. The first proposal was to reject the law. It was argued that it does not solve the problems properly and introduces burdensome administrative responsibilities. It was claimed that solutions are under-thinked and raise concerns. This proposal was not supported by a majority of committees, it was not welcomed by the committee. Two amendments were then tabled. One refers to the proposal of the Legislative Office, but there is no clear indication that the employee is making statements to the Chief Labour Inspector. This amendment was not supported by a majority of committee members. It is written in print with the proposals as Amendment 2. There is also an amendment containing issues raised by the Legislative Office and taking into account that declarations are made to the Chief Labour Inspector. This amendment is written in the compilation of proposals prepared by the Legislative Office as Amendment 1. An amendment was also tabled clearly indicating the consequences of not making a statement. This amendment was not supported by a majority of committees. This is Amendment 3. For both proposals, a announcement of minority proposals has been made. Since I am the author of the minority proposals recorded here in point II, I would like to add to what I have already said, that the government's opinion indicated that there is no need to clearly enter to whom the relevant statement is made the first. The same is true when they are updated. I'm talking about the chief labour inspector. We have therefore proposed an amendment to this opinion, which is written here as Amendment 2. Amendment 5 is related to it, according to which Article. 2 After the word "worker," the words "supervisor" or "worker" shall be added. Thank you for your attention, for listening, and for the committee's discussion...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u70	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're now working on the State Labour Inspection Act. To appeal to the previous discussion... This is a bill made by a group of Members. After all, none of them, as I recall, was at the committee meeting, therefore we could not know the substance and purpose of the change. We have guessed and maybe we make mistakes in our guesses, but this is not the fault of the authors of minority proposals. In general, in this bill... And the minority's conclusions are 2, filed with Senator Augustine. The first, in order to reject the law in its entirety, and if we fail to do so, which is more likely because of, say, the political structure of the High House, the second, at least to improve it to such an extent that it is effective, to be clear, effective and to meet the requirements of legislative art, as was taught by the patron present at the committee meeting. The conclusions of the minority were made because, unfortunately, during the vote, colleagues from the PiS Group were not willing to accept even minor changes. But the truth is It's gotta be given back. Senator Szymanski wasn't convinced that he was gonna submit a seymour either. Let's just say that in the Seym, this bill didn't give rise to the same kind of discussion as in the Senate. In general, what do we charge this bill with? That it is a cause, because it regulates corruption only in one of the state's control bodies, in one of the authorities of our country, namely in that body that seems to be And I say it authoritatively, because I was a member of the Labour Protection Council, which has the greatest social support, is visible, is visible in factories, is visible in training, is visible in a million tips for different people... And the authors thought that there should be changes as regards possible corruption issues, and that it should be done It's in the form of a bill. I said "possibly," because the current representative of the Minister played this role, it is not known why, also in a moment's time. It has not determined how many cases of corruption have occurred at all. It's just... I'm just having a job inspection... I'll be honest with you, despite being on the Labor Protection Board, which means the supervisory authority, even... These conclusions have not been reported. Even though there's a special task force in the Labour Protection Council to deal with them. There are other problems, but they're not like that. Well, as Minister Rafalska said here, the wish of Members is to consider, so that we consider it. So the bill is a cause, because we have a lot of inspections. "Buildings..." What about fiscal surveillance? Why isn't she covered? And why the construction issues, the spatial economy, where we have the most, as we all know, conflicts on this background and at the same time corruption... And such inspections, as far as I know... We counted 17 of them. And I'm in the field of job protection, for example. Environmental protection... There are 11 of them. Someone's been obsessed with inspection of her work, undermining her authority. But it's... Second question. Even if somebody tried, there's hardly a finale here. The possible demonstration that someone had an impact on the working conditions decision, because he controlled family members, does not have a finale. Even if he finds out it happened, even if he thinks his decisions have affected him. . notabene brought before the court or by a higher authority, a state labour inspector It doesn't matter because it doesn't end in any conclusion as to what to do next: slow down, don't slow down, proceed... A bill on what to do with such inspectors, wide... It's not here, it's finished with a formula that should be considered wrong. Finally, the third point, the important thing is that there are not only no sanctions, that is, there is no finality of this case, but also the question of who has these any statements to be made. As I say, the practice shows that inspections operate throughout the country, inspectors can also operate across the country, not necessarily in their district inspection, so they should make statements to the state inspector, not the district inspector, because at some point he ceases to be an employer. I'm sure there are other arguments that Senator Augustine will have to make. So we decided that this bill didn't solve anything, and it triggered a negative process of mistrust. And for that reason, I have to make proposals that improve... So, as I said before, if anything, it should end with a finale, some sort of conduct towards this inspector, and even a code of conduct. And further, to whom should the controlled economic operator refer? Well, there's no institution to appeal. And that is why I urge the High House to really... to return to the Sejm and be enriched by all inspections to be properly resolved on a legal and legislative level. Then me and my colleagues from the Platform will sign off on every anti-corruption operation. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm making a motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u72	Thank you, Senator. Please stay for a while, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. I also thank Senator Szymanski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Stanisław Szwed, like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I didn't see it because the senator was clogged. [[About the procedural thing.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u73	I've made sure of that. At the committee meeting, I applied to reject the law as a minority request. I wasn't asked to present my position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u74	Then present this motion now, Mr. Senator. It must have been a mistake in the formulation of the protocol...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Perhaps I will resign from this discussion because I will have the opportunity to present our position here. Some of the arguments are probably going to happen again, but I want to highlight them. Firstly, the need for this law has not been demonstrated. The omission of the Social Dialogue Council, which we have been talking about here, of the social partners through the notification of the parliamentary projects does not require the presentation of an impact assessment of the regulation, and therefore does not require the presentation of what is the current state, where there are irregularities, how many of them are, in order to document the need for such a submission. It wasn't there. And I want to tell you that when I read the rules so far... It's not like there are no anti-corruption laws in the Labour Inspection Act today. But of course they are, they're in the article. 44. And they say the workers referred to in the mouth. 1 and therefore, in the scope of their activities, they are independent of any outside influence and cannot participate in the interests of the controlled entities. Here, of course, it expands. I am now going to the second argument for rejecting this law, which extends widely to family members, to the extent that it would have to be stated during the audit that neither an aunt nor an uncle nor anybody close, but again not such a direct family, has any connection with the entity to be controlled. Well, that's impossible. It is impossible, or it will be at risk of error, and an error can result in dismissal of the employee. Who can know at the time of inspection, or e.g. Is his American aunt or uncle in the UK active in this business, or is he connected to it? It's impossible. This is an impossible recipe for responsible execution. Ladies and gentlemen, labour inspection in 2016. I have data for 2016 and carried out 82 thousand inspections. Because it's about control, because that's the formula... This provision states that it is necessary to prove that this economic activity is not related to the subject-matter of the control, the specific control. Can anybody imagine that? 82,000 statements? So much for 2016, maybe more now. Who and how will check the correctness, accuracy of these statements? And that uncle in the States and that aunt in the UK? This is nonsense! It's impossible. It would be a gigantic job that doesn't know what to serve. And I think, as Senator Rulewski said... I also have contact with the inspection of work, I admit, and a lot of problems have been reported. It has also been reported many times in our committee, especially in the budgetary debate. And if we were to discuss here how to provide labour inspections with the appropriate means, Minister, how to ensure that labour inspection has enough staff to carry out its tasks, how to increase the powers of controllers to effectively prevent pathologies in employment, then I could only applaud. But we're doing some kind of apparent action here. I must tell you that, in my opinion, I have not met such a nonsense project in a long time. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that, as if a cherry on the cake of this project, the summit showing the absurdity of this submission is the provision in the article. 1, which proposes that the person closest, broadly understood, make a declaration of conduct or non-business activity, the subject matter of which coincides with the subject matter of control. This never coincides, by definition and principle, because the labour inspection does not control the whole operation. It never overlaps at all, in any sense. Never. This record, as Czesław once sang, which sings, is bullshit, nonsense as little as any. Of course, our Legislature Bureau picked it up. I am surprised that such a thing has passed through the Sejm, their Legislative Office, the Ministry that supported this project, and the labour inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe some ratio legis was behind this, but no one told us, couldn't prove it. This proposal, as Senator Rulewski said, cannot go through in this shape. If she's already dealing with some, probably marginal, problem, she should be overworked, absolutely. That's what this is, Inspector, Mr. Minister of Labour, this job that needs to be done before the bill gets to us. Therefore, please, the High House: for the sake of respect for ourselves, for this body, let us not accept this law, and already, God forbid, let us not accept it in this form, because it will not do anything, is not to be done, bureaucratic and does not respond to the real problems of labour inspection at all. So it's unnecessary, it's badly constructed, and it's nonsense at times.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u76	Thank you. As the senator has acted as a rapporteur for minorities, I would like to ask if there are any questions for the senator on the part of the senators. I don't see any calls... Oh, Mr. Senator Rulewski... [[Yeah, he volunteered.]] Yes, you're welcome. [[But it's for discussion.]] [[For discussion?]] Wait a minute. I haven't opened the discussion yet. [[I'm sorry.]] I thought the senator wanted to ask you a question. That's what I asked. [[No, no.]] No questions. I would therefore like to ask the Swedish Minister again whether he wishes to respond to the statements of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to point out two things, especially after the Senator's speech, because I think we missed this debate. I have a Parliamentary Printing No 2351 on the amendment of the Law on State Labour Inspection, brought to the Sejm by the Committee on Petitions. The chairman of this committee is Mr Sławomir Piechota. This is a draft petition committee, Senator. This isn't a government project or our committee project in the sense of social policy or family. Only the petition committee. That's why the proposal that came out... I'll read a piece of the justification for this project. The aim of the proposed act is to ensure transparency in the business activities carried out by members of the family of labour inspectors, in so far as it relates to the inspection activities carried out by those inspectors. The convergence of the subject-matter of the inspection carried out by the labour inspector with the economic activity of a member of his family may lead to conflicts of interest, as well as suspicions of bias or interest. Hence the draft petition committee that one of the citizens brought in. The new formula And hence, I think, such an approach of the Sejm to this proposal. There's something about the operation of labour inspectors, and that's why you're trying to regulate it. In the Seym, as it was said here, attempts were made to clarify these records, but it did not work. Such attempts were made by the senators. I think the main axis of this project, regarding labour inspectors, to avoid such situations... That's what I'm gonna say, filled in. Of course, if there is a government initiative to amend the Labour Inspection Act, it will be possible to go back to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u78	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski is speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'm overexposing these issues here, taking the floor, but I'm referring to the law here. I would like to say to the Minister that this position was defended by the government, because there were no other statutory representatives to present the wording and objectives of the law. Don't be offended, Minister, that we conduct verbal correspondence with the government, because there were no authors, a petitor, as you say here, too. This is where I would like to refer to how unnecessary this bureaucracy is if we look at the provisions of the Act on Workers of the State Labour Inspection, otherwise controlled in terms of integrity of character or moral qualities. Art. 44: The inspection staff shall be responsible for the diligent performance of their duties. In particular, for reliable and objective recognition and documentation of the results of checks and for compliance with the provisions on the protection of classified information. And then, I'm just saying, "I can't participate in the interests of the controlled entities." Art. 48 if for the third time... A staff member of the State Labour Inspection cannot carry out activities that would be contrary to the interests of the State Labour Inspection or would be unworthy of its tasks, and would be contrary to the obligations of an employee, or could lead to suspicion of bias or interest. So if the inspector thinks that his family is working in a controlled facility, he may, as this provision says, refuse to control so as not to suspect a violation of the law. Not even a fact anymore, but a suspicion. Finally, the control body and the supervisory authority on working conditions and on the State Labour Inspection is the Labour Protection Board. I did not hear at the committee meeting that this council, which, as I mentioned, dealt with complaints against inspectors, between inspectors, between inspectors and superiors, presented its position on this matter. And as I recall, in cases like this, I mean. on the Law on State Labour Inspection, the Council has always held positions, presented opinions. It would be good for her to present this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senator hare and senator Łuczak have made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act on Employee Capital Plans. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 968 and the committee's report In prints No 968 A and No 968 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 100th meeting on 16 October, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Act on Employee Capital Plans in print No 968. The Commission unanimously proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. At the committee meeting, the Bureau of Legislative Affairs presented its amendments. None of the senators present have decided to take over these amendments, which is why the committee's proposal is exactly what I just said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u82	Thank you, Senator! I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to present a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] You don't have a senator. Then we will ask Senator Jan Rulewski as rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are not for me, Mr. Marshal, benevolent, every moment of your life, causing an appearance. And this time... [[You have every right to...]] I'm not denying it. I just said there's no mercy. I don't deny it because duty calls. And the case is very important. Of course, all matters are important, and that's what all senators say. But this case concerns an attempt to reform the pension system, and I will say more: a revision of the existing legal situation as regards the third pillar, the third pillar, which was introduced in 1999, but, let's face it, it didn't work out. This institution, which was supposed to complement the pre-founded need for saving, such an important regulator of the capitalist economy... of the market, although perhaps capitalist, did not work out. In this third pillar, introduced by reform teams, there are 17 billion PLN. These are the pennies when it comes to supplementing those pensions that are melting during the PiS governments, are smaller and will be even smaller, as Senator Augustine very much stressed, due to the introduction of a lower retirement age. I'm not gonna sneak up on that argument, the senator's ideas, and I'm gonna focus on other comments. I, too, hoped that the government, and especially Prime Minister Morawiecki, otherwise the top-ranking financier, would present such a solution. The solution, first of all, which will highlight the personal interests of the worker, will allow him a decent or minimum pension, and secondly, will create security at a time when, when you are many years old and are a combatant of work, there is no way to escape in the fumes of the market economy, otherwise known for your selfishness. And that is why I am in general in favour of continuing to work on this solution, and I am willing to participate in the refinement of this law, speaking column language. But I'm making amendments, and I'm going to go over them because there's a lot of them. I'm surprised Senator Bierecki didn't develop it in the discussion, but he limited himself to stating that everything is okay, at least in the committee's work. And there was a discussion on our committee, and not everything's okay. Let's start with each other, though I shouldn't have done that. The Act does not include Members and Senators, although we pay contributions and supplement the budget, even more than e.g. Those who sign the contract for the work. But more importantly, and most importantly, this law does not make clear whether you can continue with additional insurance over the age of sixty. In fact, her philosophy closes at the age of sixty. She says that things can be done from now on. Of course, first of all, you can charge part or in installments... You can, of course, even download the whole, but then with tax implications. This law creates the appearance that this can be a valuable complement to these small pensions. It's barely If you were to assume that this is 2.5% from the employee and 1.5% from the employer, 4%. 4% This is 1/4, Mr. Senator, what you should notice... This is even less, this is 1/5 of the current contribution. So if retirement is an average of PLN 2,000, then I'm talking about today. The average pension will be 500 PLN. But that's not true. 'Cause it's still gonna be if you get married in other installments, tax. The government unexpectedly, contrary to the previous pillar system, imposes on those who speed up payment of instalments, because they see that their health is failing, that is, they will soon greet God, tax, a flat-rate tax of 19%. The bill says it's private property. This is an important statement in relation to the experience with OFE. But saying she's private doesn't give rise to compensation. How much if the government pulls out... Any government, I'm not saying it's gonna be PiS. Probably the next government after the economic disaster that the PiS will eventually cause will have to retreat. And the question is, to what extent will these capitals be returned? Of course, you can go to court, you can reform... In general, this provision can be deleted by law. Of course, any other record, if it's in the bill, can also be deleted, even the record guaranteeing... But I suggest you write down that it is private property, but if you violate it, it will return the funds deposited in the management company's account. Well, somebody can say, it can be changed. Yes, but then the Constitutional Tribunal will repeal such a law as a non-constitutional act in connection with the protection of property and order the restoration of a literal, i.e. the repayment of a paid contribution. Finally, we all know that inflation is not an invention of Poland, of this government or of another government. The so-called voyage or this welcome fee is 250 zł, right? And the annual surcharge, 240 zł, are not valued. It is easy to imagine that if we create such a system for years, for tens of years, this fee will decrease to the level of 80 and 100 PLN in 40 years. So what's the extra charge? And she's supposed to be an important element of. I think it's beneficial to encourage people to save money on old age. Another trimming. If that's the case when you turn 60... It is not known why a man is discriminated against in this case, i.e. he will not benefit from a surcharge and a welcome fee. The question is, what about these measures that he can take? Well, it can charge 25%. and the remaining 120 instalments. Of course, it can change, but if it changes, it's going to spiral into a flat-rate tax spiral. That is why I propose, however, that we continue these agreements until the employment relationship or employment contract has ceased, any employment contract of course, with the possibility of expanding over the years, or, as they say, investigations to the metric age... The point is that the capital that he has accumulated can be obtained, paid back more, that is, at the age of 75, so that he can collect all of the capital without any consequences at once. Of course, the question is, what's next? Well, then maybe to the IKE, to the IKE, he can keep it in his own pocket. That's why this is my amendment. Come on. Well, the bill has one mean side. Namely, it seeks to limit the PPE, i.e. programs that did not work, but function. It says that you can regulate this PPE, but it must be half the crew or 25% of the crew and the contribution paid by the employer to the PPE must be at least 3.5%. Let's be honest: I analyzed this and practically all PPE will disappear, i.e. They'll be able to function, only they won't enjoy certain privileges... Both the IKZE and the PPE and the IKE have no taxes. And that's their advantage. There are no taxes. The next proposal concerns the budgetary sphere. I told you, you've hurt the budget. The law is universal, and it turns out it is not universal. Yeah, they can use it, but budget workers in over two years. What does that mean and why? Well, let's tell these people the truth because they deserve the truth. We don't have any money for them, and that's why we're restricting their rights. This budget, which we haven't even valued for nine years, we are now saying: you are not going to benefit from that supplementary pension you make up for. Well, at least let's be honest... And that's why my amendment is softer than the one in the Seym, which assumed that since January 1st... I suggest you actually say that, give time to technique. And the technique of the budget staff is very precise. However, after a year it has already covered the budgetary sphere. So compromise. That would be the last of my amendments. I stress once again: I will vote in favour of this law, but let us eliminate all these discriminatory, fiscal, tax elements from it. Let's let these people benefit from the payment after they're sixty years old if they're active. ♪ Like this ♪ I'm squinting, we're going to fix President Duda's mistake, which was too hasty and too literal to respond to the demands... a significant number of people, I'm not hiding, but the demands must have their measure. It's not enough for the postulate itself, he's still got to have his measure. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am making these amendments with the thought that this will find recognition of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u84	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act on Employee Capital Plans was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 17 October. Much has been said about this law. There were indeed minority proposals, the amendments of Senator Rulewski were being examined, but the decision was finally made at the committee meeting to adopt this law without amendments: 4 Senators were against, 2 were against. Mr Rulewski, as rapporteur for the minority, presented his conclusions just now. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u86	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senators and rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Leszek Skiba, like to speak on behalf of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski signed up for the discussion. You're welcome. I'm giving you the floor. You're resigning? [[I've already expressed my position.]] Senator Augustine is another speaker. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I reported... This was about minority proposals, plural. This second motion was my motion to reject this law. I'm gonna start by saying that the Law and Justice of this project wants to solve a problem that it created itself. It is not only that this new pension scheme does not guarantee pensions like before, but it will also reduce the retirement age, especially for women, so that almost 1/3 of pensions will be the lowest pensions. And there are calculations that go even further. Of course, we all see this problem, but the way to solving it is not in this direction that you are proposing. Poles with regard to financial instruments addressed to future pensioners, with a view to providing them with higher future benefits, have the worst possible experience. We have the experience of OFE, which did not guarantee the return of the capital that was put in it, and charged double the state budget, so ultimately in this formula they were unbearable. This is the second attempt. And it must be borne in mind here that the general pension system provides state workers with guarantees of payment of pensions of a certain amount, depending on the amount of contributions collected. And this is a system that actually obliges you to be certain, no matter what. In turn, the capital system As a result, it was the public finance committee that brought the matter forward. This guarantee is no longer available, since the rate of return will depend on how the investment will succeed. Although certain mechanisms have been put in place, which have already been mentioned, also with regard to OFE, i.e. to change the portfolio, etc., depending on age, but at the same time no one will sign the statement that these are the guarantees of profits from these capitals. Poles know what it's like to invest in the stock market, how it is to invest in various kinds of capital funds, and therefore a large proportion of investors, especially small scalers, definitely left. And now they're being offered money, and it's supposed to be safe because it's gonna be in WIG20. And do you know what the last prognosis about WIG20 is? How cool is it going up? Or is it falling? Because it's falling. Why? They said the guarantee was that the Treasury companies... Who's down now? It is the companies of the Treasury that drag the WIG20 down. Why? Because they have poor financial results. Why? Because they are mismanaged because they are burdened with further tributes, because they must also be enough for Misiewicz, PiS-iewiczów... And that is why you propose to Poles a very risky undertaking, i.e. entry into similar water 'Cause maybe it's not the same one they've been invited to before. And for this to happen, you're proposing the incentives that the senator was talking about here, without valorization, so every year it's smaller. But I'm saying it's a little incentive. In terms of both this welcome fee and these surcharges, the subsequent annual fee is too small to influence their willingness to enter the scheme on a voluntary basis. Although there is a trap that is really going in there from office and that we will have to withdraw from it, in time intervals, etc. Maybe it'll help catch a fishing rod, but it's not gonna make the pennies you're offering to encourage. That's why I'm having second thoughts about whether this system is going to be universal. He is universal in the context of potential, but in fact he will not, in my opinion, be universal. Plus, in a situation of economic collapse, if it coincides with a four-year-old, we're gonna have a lot of fugitives from this system. That's why it's not a good idea, it's a thoughtful idea, the more that you actually want to transfer the whole of this venture, and it's risky again, to employers. Well, unless we assume it's a 2% reduction in employees' wages. And if that's not the case, then the question is, who's gonna give the money to the employees? They will pay their wages, pay for their employees, and the money from the Labour Fund, which has been earmarked for past insurance in the event of unemployment, will be directed to this system. What is a breach of a specific agreement with employers who, by paying 2.45% of their wages, have the right to expect that this money will be allocated to the employment support system. And in this way, you are building even more of a situation where employment among the oldest is low. 'Cause if it's a job like this And here is an age of up to 60 years, also for men, you will be able to obtain, as you suggest, significant influences, then why hire yourself additionally, why extend employment? That's why I don't think this presentation is good. I understand the desire to increase the savings that could be spent on investment, especially government investments, but it can't be done by method, so to speak, to break in, to break into the Labour Fund, to break into entrepreneurs' money. And if not, even by reducing wages by 2%. I feel like there's something else going on here, that it's more about the financial market, about putting money out of our pockets and out of the pockets of entrepreneurs. That's it. Because this supposed money from this system, in my opinion, and also in my experience, will not return to the interested. And certainly not in such a quantity as to allow a noticeable increase in their pensions. To conclude, I want to say this: if, even by breaking this agreement... And it's already happened. I'm looking at Minister Radziwill here. In the case of doctors, a little hustling the issue of the Labour Fund. What was the scream that we were giving it to doctors and so on? But it could still be defended, you could say that they would end up in the labour market. And now, without any embarrassment, without any problem, we're reaching for that money for something else. I really think that this is very thoughtless, risky, probably not profitable, probably uncommon, probably... certainly at the expense of businessmen, and perhaps at the expense of employees as well. And if this money from the Labour Fund were intended to activate older people on the labour market, to extend their presence on the labour market, it would not be, as in the case of doctors, exactly as intended, to be connected with the labour market. As once, on the occasion of the pension system, Janek, we discussed with the unionists in Inowroclaw, then a wise man came out and poured a bucket of cold water into union heads, pointing out his speech in this way: the source of prosperity is not retirement, the source of prosperity is work. Don't tamper with the labour funds, don't put them in risky projects, and start working on it. Since this retirement age is to be maintained It is clear that, especially in the case of women, it will translate, with state guarantees, into their higher retirement, much higher... [[Time's up.]] ...than what you're proposing here. This has to be done.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u88	Thank you, Senator. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 00 to 16 minutes 06]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u89	I'm reopening the session. And please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am continuing my speech, which I have already mentioned when discussing the minority's request. Just now Senator Augustyn, speaking in this discussion, pointed out that many funds for the implementation of the PPK system, the employee capital plans, will be covered by the Labour Fund. Let us stress a contradiction: the Labour Fund is a solidarity fund, and we are now collecting or securing funds for the second Solidarity Fund. It's kind of absurd. But Senator Augustine probably also knows that this fund is already another amount that we are drawing from. In a moment we will be working on another kind of solidarity fund, defined by Mr Morawiecki for the benefit of the disabled. And we're going to take 0.15 out of this fund. So it's not 2,45 anymore, it's 2,15. But who knows the history of the fight, among others. ladies, about the program of life... There, too, funds have already been collected from the Labour Fund, à with regard to the implementation of the Fund. And before and after. You take money for internships for nurses, doctors and others... To tell you the truth, I have a question for the government: 1.5% more from this fund for the possible fight against unemployment, the functioning of labour offices, and anything left, besides feathers and officials? But that's not what I wanted to talk about. However, I was optimistic about the functioning of this law, but only if it was improved. And I can't take this optimism from the fact that there could be economic disasters. Lehman Brothers, etc. And the guarantee of this system will be lost. Because I say that the Polish economy is insured not only by the internal market, but above all by participating in such a great economic organisation as the European Union. And in it, for example. is the Luxembourg State, the most about which and on the financial security of that country Our colleague, President Bierecki, who invested huge funds there, would say. So that if they don't burn out the management funds, we can always take senator Bierecki's advice and transfer the money to Luxembourg. Of course, by the way. You smile, I mean, accept it. And when it comes to context... Ladies and gentlemen, what's not in this bill? And that's why I'm calling for an improvement. Well, there is no trust in insurance systems in Poland And these state ones, and as I showed earlier, this third pillar. There's no trust. There is no investment. It is a fundamental principle of the market economy: trust builds investment. Why doesn't he trust me? That's what we've been talking about. In the explanatory memorandum, the government writes It is a copy of the Anglo-Saxon system, more specifically English. It's true. In England, such a system has been in operation for several years. There is a system of forced participation in these savings systems, it operates. This obligation is imposed on employers. Employees, like here, voluntarily enter or appear from it, unless they forget and have time to register; here something from OFE was taken. But, ladies and gentlemen, attention... Well, you have to compare well, though I can't say that I'm 100% I've made these comparisons. In England, the system of gathering in the third pillar, even in basic programmes in general, is based primarily on the great tradition of fighting trade unions with employers and this tradition dates back to the end of the 19th century. Therefore, the guarantee of capital plans, pension plans in England, in America, too, in other countries are trade unions. But not only because trade unions arise, disappear, are better or weaker. What doesn't exist in Poland is agreements. These employee privileges, enshrined here, imposing an obligation on the employer to set up, maintain an account, and then even set aside a contribution, are guaranteed there not by law, but are guaranteed by collective agreements. They are the source of law and duty. They are guaranteed by strike action, protests etc., etc., through negotiations. And the welfare of an English pensioner is built downstairs at the workplace. Increases, reduces contributions, moving capital. And the second guarantee. I would, however, ask Mr. Bierecki to discuss, so that he might correct me. The London Stock Exchange is of national or supranational importance. Compared to the investments in the Polish Stock Exchange, the London Stock Exchange has a much higher confidence rate. And this bill assumes that the funds will be at least 70% invested in the Polish Stock Exchange. Well, the Polish stock market is what it is, everyone can see. And that is why Senator Bierecki has rightly fled to Luxembourg, not to the Polish Stock Exchange. That's why I don't think these conditions are here. There's no union in the bet. There are no collective agreements, especially in the budgetary sphere. There is therefore no mobility of this system to respond to various economic and social shocks. Finally, just a little note. If someone's already saving up there, I'm the one who treats it like it's a contribution. In this case, an employer of 2,5% and it is possible to raise it to 4% It is an extension of remuneration. If so, I ask why the legislator orders to return what the employee has received from the employer, to the Social Security Office, not even to the employer. I understand he might not be there. So let's leave to this employee what his employer had under the contract, the employment contract, because it's included there, he gave it. Leave it to him, and don't enrich the miserable money, more and more empty ZUS money. Therefore, I ask once again to create these guarantees and to reverse the lack of trust in all insurance institutions, including public ones, in Poland. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. And please... [[Gregory Bierecki: Mr. Marshal, I was mentioned...)]] Senator Grzegorz Bierecki in the form of correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, Senator Rulewski has a special style of speech. He deserves to be called Mickey Mouse of our assembly. It's hard to discuss and straighten out what the senator is saying without knowing what he's talking about, and not having the information he needs to know before he makes such statements. I can't straighten it out because I'd have to lower myself to your level. Unfortunately, at this level of bottom, I'm sure you'll beat me. So I won't straighten it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Radziwiłł... [[Voice from Konstanty's room.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[Constant.]] Constantine, Constantine. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, am joining this assessment, I would say, the level of this debate. In fact, once again, when dealing with a problem that not only Poland is facing, but the whole world, and in any case a large part of this world, the problem of how to ensure that such decent conditions for the future for citizens who are working today earn money, but are not sure what will happen to them in the future, about this problem is said: it is impossible, nothing can be done. The only thing that ever occurred to our adversaries a while ago is what happened five years ago, which means that the state of OFE, which was... good, bad? Probably not like that or anything, but it was an idea. Right? We are certainly taking a very clear step forward here. We say: the measures in this third pillar are private funds and cannot be taken. I think this article here... There was a proposal to supplement it, because they wondered what else could be done to say that these measures were so private to the cube. This article is not needed because if something is private, it's just private, and if it's public, it's public. I am no longer talking about the fact that every article can be changed in the future, as evidenced by the 2013 Act on Stateising OFE. After all, there were discussions there, which are the means. Many thought it was private, yet they were nationalized without compensation. So how do I listen to you say you can't... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it means that we're even backing down, closing our eyes, hiding our heads in the sand, and stopping... I mean, probably most of us here in the courtroom can still be careful, with more or less probability that they'll be there somehow, because that money is still enough. Right? But if we look at our children or our grandchildren, that's not for sure. At least I'm not sure how it's going to be with my children, which, you can say, start their adventure with the labour market in one way or another, jobs, business, various types of civil law contracts, etc., etc. It seems like you can't close your eyes on what the whole world does. The world thinks about state pensions, about different pillars, about different solutions, such as private, more public, solidarity, employee-employing, etc., etc. And I hear here all the time in this debate: it can't be done, let's not do it, because it's definitely wrong. Not much, we hear: this is an assassination. for private money, it sucks at all, and it's like a penny, and if we don't value it, in 40 years, it's gonna be a laugh in the courtroom, because then it's gonna be worth 250 zł... etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure this bill isn't perfect and it's probably gonna be up to date like many other laws. And I think that every next row will have a way of showing off here, and he'll be able to propose some adjustments. But this is certainly a step towards which most of us expect, and certainly this is the next generation. It's about creating a basis. Someone there mocked that in relation to PLN 2,000 400 or PLN 500 per month it was not much. In my opinion, it's a lot, compared to 2,000 for sure. In relation to higher pensions, which are very few, it is actually not much, but, ladies and gentlemen, we need to start somewhere. And it seems like it's just a step in the right direction. What are our problems? In my opinion, we have two problems and no one has hidden this from the very beginning. And here is the charge that this money is actually collected not for those who are going to deposit it, but for someone else who is going to use it, for example. Some kind of business. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 2 problems in Poland that are somehow related to saving. The first problem is the question of our future or future of Poles, and the second is the issue of lack of capital in Poland. We are happy to see investors coming from abroad, but let's face it: we are less happy than we would if these investments were Polish investments. From the very beginning, if we read the reasons for the bill carefully, we would see that it is very clearly indicated that the first problem we solve is a matter of the future. I wouldn't call it retirement. It is a question of the future, material security of Poles for the future. There's no doubt about that. The second problem we solve is resentment. Poles to save and lack Polish capital on the Polish market. There is a need for encouragement to change that. There's no doubt about that. These 2 tasks are carried out by this law in a more or less perfect way. This may be more ambitious, more money could be transferred there, but in my opinion it is certainly still a step in the right direction. I have no doubt about that. There is a chance that as a result of this bill will be so that in the future the disposable money of any man who will enter into this voluntarily, totally voluntarily... There is also a difference in terms of retirement age. It is not that the Polish government caused a problem about retirement age. No. This is what the Poles wanted. It certainly was a way out for a large number of people who wanted to retire early. Here is an incentive to improve their future situation. That's one thing we solve. There will be a chance that the retirees will have more money for the future. That's one thing. Secondly, which is extremely important, there is a chance that the savings of Poles in Poland, which can be used as investment funds, will simply be more. In my opinion, the crucial thing about this law, which also deserves to be shown, is that it is a voluntary law, about choice, about giving Poles the opportunity to use some option, and not forcing them to do what is best for them. There will be those who choose it, and they will probably benefit from it. There will also be those who will not choose this option, but it is their right. I think it's the most important thing to stress. This differs from all solutions which so far were, that Poles will be able to shape their future based on their own choices and preferences. I believe that even for this reason it is worth supporting this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, at the very beginning, I will reserve, and this is for the purpose that Senator Radziwił will not yell at me later that I will not vote against this bill, which does not mean that I like everything about it. Well, there's a saying that two birds can be shot with one shot. This is a dream of a lot of hunters, as well as economists, who would like to deal with a few things right away. I don't know, maybe it works, but it doesn't usually work. Let's take an example like 500+. 500+ was said to have two goals. The first objective is to reduce poverty and the second is to improve fertility. The effect is that poverty has been reduced. There's no question about that. And as far as childhood is concerned, it's improved in the previous year, and this year we've already had a drop in births. It's just not gonna work out, not this way. There are other methods that would have to be applied for this purpose. If these methods are used and others are not used, it is usually the case that one goal is achieved and the other goal is not achieved and money is wasted. Because I'm going back to an example of 500+, some part of the money that's being passed on to families that don't need it from a income point of view, is just... Maybe otherwise, she could be better used. Why am I talking about this? Because as far as this case is concerned, which we are discussing today, this very important law, it also has two objectives. This is what Senator Radziwiłł said just now: that one goal is to make pensions that are low, so it is necessary to encourage citizens to save for the future, and the other goal is that there is no capital, there is not enough capital, and thus we create this capital. So the question is, can these two goals be achieved so freely. Well, I don't think that there's anything hidden in this project, which is basically something that's more important. There's nothing like quoting yourself. Well, in 2012 I wrote in this article on the pension system: I appealed to... [[Sunday's guest?]] Well, if you can get me to write in Sunday Guest, I'll write there. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ♪ I've been calling the government ♪ "I quote "the promotion of the need for individual pension savings (the third pillar) '. Unfortunately, nothing happened for a year. A year later, when it was liquidated... the open pension funds had not yet been abolished, but in any event the open pension funds had been strongly reformed, I wrote that neither the OFE reforms nor the Social Security Office would ensure decent pensions. The benefits calculated from the accumulated contributions will be relatively much lower than today. We are threatened with the creation of a multimillion-dollar group of frustrated pensioners and large budget costs resulting from compulsory pension subsidies lower than minimum. Only voluntary savings in Pillar III can save the situation. More decisive, material incentives are needed to save in this form and a broad government-sponsored information and promotion campaign in the media. It can be said that this project undoubtedly responds to these expectations in the pension section. And I actually put the emphasis on pensions. Why? Because there is no other way to ensure that pensions for 20, 30, 40 years are fairly decent, able to sustain themselves, like citizens' savings today. There's no other way. Because these other ways, that's for example. increasing the compulsory Zusov contribution today will lead to economic, economic problems. Putting this aside for the future, assuming that the future budget will pay more, that's putting the problem aside, throwing that carbon bag on someone else's back. So there's no other way to save citizens today. But as far as investment in Poland is concerned, it is a whole range of possibilities, a whole range of possible actions that the government can take in order to increase investment in Poland, starting with stable tax law and not only tax law, also criminal, also civil, as well as the proper operation of tax offices, tax houses, various types of support that can be applied. And that's where you'd have to act first. And the amounts that citizens will save for future pensions should only be supportive. That shouldn't be the main objective. or one of the two main objectives It's a program. Meanwhile, you try to make one of these main goals. Why do I say that? Because when it comes to pensions, we already have a repeat of entertainment, I have to say. You remember when OFE came in, it was all kinds of commercials about vacation under coconut trees, etc. Then they laughed at it. Well, it's probably not allowed to advertise today, but the government does it in a way, and it's spreading tables everywhere that say that if someone saves 2% , and the employer will add 1.5% to it It's going to be 3.5%. After 40 years he will have an additional pension of PLN 2 000 700. And now, without any additional explanation, everyone who reads it thinks this: well, that's a great thing; today 2,000 700 zlotys are more than average retirement. Yeah, except 40 years from now, the pay's gonna be higher, too. That's one thing. [[There's going to be a higher percentage.]] Excuse me? [[That's going to be a higher percentage.]] [[It's not gonna...]] Well, it won't be higher, the percentage won't be higher. [[The percentage is the same, but the amount is higher.]] Okay, Senator, let's imagine that you need a lot of imagination here, but that's what the government shows you. For 40 years, the average wage will be about PLN 13.5 thousand, and it will be real. I stress that really, and that means we assume that there is no price movement at all. So it's like today is 13.5,000. Well, at this point, a pension of 2,000 700 doesn't seem like such a big pension anymore, you'll admit. Of course, she's an extra one, because there's also this basic pension from the Social Security Office. Right? This one's an extra one. Now let's take a look at how it's been calculated. It is assumed that the contributions to be paid are 3.5% , to the relevant funds, will bring annual profits, every year 3.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, where are the profits? What kind of action? What bonds? After all, we do not assume that the situation of the Polish budget will be so dramatic that our tax bonds will have to be sold and paid interest of 3.5%, 4% etc. Rather, we assume that it will get better and better and that, therefore, we will be going down to a level, I don't know, German, French, up to 1.5%. And these bonds, these investment funds, they're supposed to buy... They're supposed to make profits for pensioners. And now for the action. For the past 24 years quite turbulent development of Poland, Poland is not in ruins. The WIG20 index increased twice, in short, by 2%. So I'm asking you, where's the 3.5%? Not much, some of that money will be placed on bank deposits. Which banks will give 3.5% ? Ladies and gentlemen, here we are dealing with manipulation simply. [[Applause]] I'm protesting this because such manipulation has already taken place once. In 1999 the Council adopted And it cost us dearly. Tell me the truth. Don't make those calculations. Tell the truth, it'll be modest money. Not much about the low-earning ones... [[As long as they're...]] As far as the lowest earners are concerned, that's where they're allowed, because you're the lowest... There's a table in the material of the Ministry of Finance that shows that the so-called. first quintile, or 20% The least earning Poles... They spend more as they earn, they're just in debt. So they either won't go into this program at all, or... you can see that the government is trying to attract them somehow, because it says: these people will be able to reduce their share of the contribution from 2% to 0.5%. And the employer will add 1.5%. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that means that once they retire, they'll get 80 zlotys out of this extra money, just for today's money. So this is the least important to them, and it is said that it is the idea that those with the lowest pensions should have higher pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this programme is primarily aimed at obtaining money for investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u97	Mr. Senator, thank you. [[Thank you very much and...]] Please sign in nicely. [[Yeah, after Senator Bierecki...]] Okay, here you go. [[...I'll speak.]] Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Have you been listed as a senator? [[Voices from the hall: He was, he was.]] Name? [[He was, he was, twice.]] All right, here you go. [[Thank you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to say, Senator Borowski, that I am not going to yell at you. And I don't recall ever yelling at anyone in this room. But using this correction, I would like to point out that when, in the context of my name, you were talking about the ineffectiveness of this pronatistic part of the 500+ program, you were telling me the numbers that are... Well, you interpret them. 'Cause you weren't talking about the numbers. I'm afraid it's wrong. The number of births from 2010 to 2015 was constantly decreasing. It was the difference of over 45,000 birthdays. In 2016, this figure was already slightly more than in 2015. I will give the numbers from January to July because 2018 has not passed yet. From January to July 2015 there were 216 thousand, in 2016, 223 thousand, i.e. more than the previous year, in 2017, 235 thousand, i.e. even more, and in 2018 230 thousand in the current year. Thus, it is less than in 2017, but more than in 2016 and in all previous years. [[Less than in 2014]] Mr. Senator... [[Less than in 2014]] ...is more than in 2016 and 2015 and in all previous years. There's more. 230 000 children were born from January to July this year. And that's the facts. Of course, if someone expects that as a result of 500+ each year this number will increase, then it's just unrealistic. Nevertheless, it has increased and remains at a higher level. And that's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the corrigendum that Senator Radziwiłł presented allows me to begin my speech, because it is true. And that's what I'd like to say to both senators. That the greatest children of Polish families reach outside the country, e.g. in the UK. Why is this happening? This is because they feel safe, stable and can take up this challenge, it's a financial risk, the difficulty of raising children, many children. They have security that gives them a sense of security. There are social security features that give them a sense of security, so they can make a decision to have many children. As far as the programme we are discussing is concerned, the UK has recently adopted a similar programme. This is valid in Germany, France, the Netherlands. It's not something we came up with here for our own use. We are not pioneers when it comes to this solution. This is one way of supplementing retirement income through long-term savings. These long-term savings will appear in Poland And they're really missing them. And they will serve our economy. This is a very important goal that we achieve through this bill. Finally, the fundamental difference between what the OFE was and what these PPKs will be, the PPKs will not generate debt increases. It's not like OFE created any extra savings. That's where some of the social security contributions went. It wasn't any extra savings. Ofe generated debt. Unlike what the OFE was and what a long-term threat it posed to the state's finances, PPK will contribute to the stabilisation of households' finances, but also to the state's finances. These are powerful savings that will grow and grow as money that belongs to Polish citizens. This is a very important element. After all, we are talking about a programme which is a universal programme, voluntary, co-created by employers, workers and the state. It's a program. In contrast to OFE, which we have talked about so many times in this debate From which you can appear and from which you can take your money. That wasn't the case with OFE. The lesson that we all have, after the delusion that big international financial companies have given us, financial groups, telling us how lucky it will be, how we'll be saving open pension funds as part of the OFE... They showed us these palm trees. Now we know that we have one of those palm trees or a palm tree that's really the one that's standing right here at the corner of de Gaulle, right? Polish pensioners can sit there. So much of this delusion is left. So experience, painful experience has been used to create this program. We do it right, we do it right, we do it right, we do it like they do in developed countries, which Poland has recently been included in, oh, I'll say. We do not do this like countries such as Chile or others, which, like us, have been through a painful experience of OFE. Let's hope this works out, because so is Senator Radziwiel. I do not agree with the approach proposed in this debate that nothing will succeed, that it is not worth trying to do anything to meet the challenges that we see and know will happen. These are very serious challenges, challenges arising from the corrupt demography of Poland, resulting from the fact of emigrating or pushing the entire number of young people who could build our prosperity and become taxpayers of other countries into exile by previous governments. These are the reasons why we face huge challenges. After all, we have a huge loss of people of working age. This criticism, these voices of doubt come from the senators I remember from the previous term when they voted in favour of taking over funds from the OFE. At the time, they were very eager to support Prime Minister Tusk in the idea of taking the money, and they claimed that it was not the money of Poles. Have a little restraint, gentlemen, a little restraint in your speeches. You have an operation in your account that we have heard on these famous tapes, an operation very bad, very bad, and you will not cover it with any wrinkles that have nothing to do with this discussion, Senator Augustine. You voted in favour of this solution and supported those actions. Finally, I would also like to say to you that this will not be the only tool for securing or securing funds during the retirement period. We have ZUS, we have funds that come from the Social Insurance Fund, and now there will also be this capital program, and people just save money, build their assets... Perhaps we also need to work on a reverse mortgage law, which is a tool used in many countries, which has been introduced into Poland incorrectly. Oh, I'd say so. Because this solution doesn't work, as you can see. Apparently, it doesn't work. So there are different tools. Let Poles have many tools at their disposal to ensure their old age. Finally, the last thing I want to tell you is to unload the atmosphere. Among the pension security models is something that people in Africa understand very well. I remember reading in the book "Heban Kapuściński" about how the socialist African country accepted all socialist laws, Parliament unanimously adopted these laws, but did not adopt one. The maintenance bill. Members then said: "Why should we pay the woman who took the child, since this child is her guarantee for the future? ' So, to unload the atmosphere a little bit, let me add: let's remember that the biggest, best investment for us and the greatest security is our well-brought children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u102	First, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm out of time... Because I'm gonna straighten something out. Yeah, well... [[Is that gonna be a corrigendum?]] Because I was caused by Senator Radziwill. But what did I say, Senator? The fact that this year is a drop in the number of birthdays And that's it, period. Unfortunately, Senator, you may not have heard this, but the 500+ propaganda itself was talking about two goals: poverty and that we will finally come to generations' replacement. Well, it turns out it's not, it's definitely not. And that's all there is to it. [[Thank you.]] It's not like we're wasting time... Now, let me get to the point. I'm going back to the question of the means to invest, because when it comes to pensions, as I said... Although, of course, for a large part of society, this saving will bring some addition to retirement in the future, and well. But far too little emphasis is placed here on the issue of those people who have low wages. And those proposals that are here, which is the welcome bonus, then the annual allowances... They are extremely modest and they will not solve these problems. And allowing employees to reduce their premiums to 0.5% That's the way it is, isn't it? It will make this later supplement to the pension completely trace. That is why I am simply saying that it was not a question of pensions, or at least not a question of these lowest pensions, which was at the heart of this proposal. It was based on the issue of investment funds. I have already mentioned that this mentioned valorization, about the 2,000 700 PLN, is stretched to the impossible and that it is simply not allowed to have people. As far as investment funds are concerned, the Act states that investment funds should be at least 40% funds are allocated to shares of companies listed in WIG20. And we know what WIG20 is, they're primarily state-owned companies, which is where the flow of this money will be directed. If there was full confidence in the fact that these companies were filled with competent people, that they were not subjected to government pressure to carry out certain government tasks, even if it did not pay off, then half of poverty. But today we have such a situation that state companies e.g. they finance mining, indirectly, but they do it, for example. an electric car, this phantom invented by the Prime Minister, or any other idea, the kind of miserable shuttle whose keel is rusting somewhere on the slope of a volcano in Szczecin or some Luxtorpeda. There's a State Development Fund that buys something once in a while. Last time I checked, Mr. President bought a round as a gift. So the point is that the effectiveness of these investments may prove to be low. There's no guarantee here that it's gonna be any different. [[It's already turned out.]] Come on. Private funds, but also those related to state-owned companies, banks, etc. They're going to invest in stock. Good. What is the guarantee for this future pensioner who is putting off there, that it will be intelligent investment? At the moment, I am already overlooking the pressure on you in this respect, but I am focusing on whether it will be intelligent investment. I've been watching the investments of our investment funds. I'm not going to name names, of course. And how they invested. Well, I don't know, I guess they were just experimenting. They have a certain fee on assets, 0.5% And they'll always take it. Of course, there's 0.1% left. If they invest well. Yeah, but if they invest badly, they'll have 0.5%. Unfortunately, as I watched those funds, I noticed that very often those workers who had assigned certain parcels there simply experimented. I know that there are certain safeguards in this bill that there is a certain percentage of this, a certain percentage of this, but within these limits you can still prove incompetence. And now the question is, what's the security here? After all, these funds will rotate the money of a certain group of future pensioners. If there were such safeguards that, in the event of a negative outcome, the company must add that they must simply, to some extent at least, compensate for this loss, then there may be some guarantee, but that is not so. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. And finally, to confirm what I said about investing these funds in investments that the government cares about, and what doesn't necessarily have to be profitable... I read it, I found out that, for example. There's a problem with the Ostrołęka C power plant. This is a coal plant. The banks don't want to borrow it, there are problems with it. The Ministry of Energy stated that there was a statement that it would probably be possible to do so by means of precisely those pension funds which are created by PGE by other energy companies. And that's what's bothering you. And that, unfortunately, has not been decided and there are no fuses here. Therefore, I stress, I was in favour of this kind of solution, a long time ago, as I quoted, and a number of solutions in this bill are good... Let's hope those threats I'm talking about aren't gonna happen. I'm sure we'll all be watching this closely, but it's a shame they weren't removed right away. Second thing. I appeal once again: don't manipulate data, don't deceive citizens, don't promise them pears on the willow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Tadeusz... [[I'm sorry. I'm asking for a correction.]] Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I refer to this last sentence: do not manipulate the data. Well, with all due respect to the senator who's accusing me of some kind of manipulation, I was talking about what the numbers looked like, and I'm not gonna say it again. It is the number of births from January to July from 2010 to 2018. There are indeed fewer than last year, but more than in all previous years. That's the first fact. Two. I do not know on what basis Senator Borowski believes that children in Poland are falling because such data is simply not yet available. According to CUS data, which can be read, children in previous years developed like this: 2010.1,38, that is the number of children per woman; 2015 s. 1,29, which is much less than in 2010; 2016 - 1,36, increase; 2017 - 1,45. There's growth all the time. How will it be in 2018? We don't know, because it's a pretty complicated calculation. You have to look at the number of women entering the age of giving birth to children. Of course, it is still far from surrogate, but everything is clearly going in this direction. The replacement of generations is at 2, 1. This direction is here, and you can't deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Of course, the subject does not concern medicine, but as we generalize, it must be recalled that in the last period, year to year, 16 thousand more Poles died. There are glows and shadows of every statistic. By the way, a brief correction for the keel. I was also interested in why she was rusting so much, Mr. Senator. As a schnook, I went to the trouble of getting to it through some of the shipbuilders I knew. Turns out it's not a keel. It's not a keel at all. This is an element taken from a nearby offshore wind power plant. This is a large structural element that has nothing to do with the ship at all. He was brought in for rape, as Prime Minister Morawiecki was supposed to nail the sign that there would be a ferry. That's not part of the ship at all. Notabene's tablet was ripped off. This element is out there rusting and nothing else is happening. I'm going to the point. I listened attentively to your very interesting speeches and I remembered the words 'who is without sin, let the first throw a stone.' I didn't vote for OFE, I wasn't a senator then. I'm kind of a victim here, but as a 60-year-old, I don't think I'm even getting into this PPK anymore, so I don't have much to do with it. As part of our last election campaign, we worked with many young people, including one stockbroker. When we talked fun, I asked them what they thought about PPK. First, the stockbroker satisfied everyone with the idea of who the stockbroker is. The broker is the kind of guy who turns your money around until there's nothing left. And it kind of gives away the essence of things. I say that by looking at the declines on the Polish stock market. I hope it's temporary. Looking for the good side of the bill, which has already been mentioned here, I must admit that I have found one good side, apart from those details that you said were voluntary. I repeat, there is voluntaryity. And while the super-dieability of older people reminds us of such a saying from the times of communism: "Emerity, support the party with action, die before the deadline," we are talking about young people. And among these very intelligent young people were also employees of our math department, who carried out various simulations, optimistic and pessimistic, this PPK for the salary of PLN 3,000 in the case of 40 years of saving. And it turned out that, assuming that the pension is paid for about 10 years, there will be a maximum of 500 zł of this allowance to the pension, and in the negative scenario about 80 zł. I don't take responsibility for these calculations, but actually these 2,000 700 zlotys are probably a little overly optimistic assumptions. And back to the youth 'Cause they're the ones that are mostly targeted by this program. It must be said that at the end of the discussion they concluded with an equally well-known saying: "Can you count? Count on yourself. And it gives me optimism that the future of Poland is in good hands, because young people will shape their own existence and their old age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We share this room with optimists and pessimists. I actually have the worst experience with OFE, and that's why my caution and distrust are far greater than perhaps many. But Senator Borowski has clearly shown that these calculations are not reliable. If we, such a programme, so important for an economy that could be important for the economy, are based on false calculations, unrealistic calculations, then what are we serving at the outset? Lying? Lack of competence? That's why my distrust has increased. I came out here first of all because I disagree with such a claim that there is no other way. There's a lot of roads. And I strongly pointed out here this way of promoting longer work, voluntary longer work, so as to raise as much as possible for my retirement. Because even if someone is private enough to collect their savings, the volume of these savings will also depend on how long we will work. The source of the prosperity of Poland, each of us I'll repeat, there's work. And just her, not retirement. Because the ageing of the population in large, developed, old countries brings down growth from 1% to 1.5% per year. The example of Japan is the most expressive here. Pensions are always lower than wages. The more pensioners, the less money on the market. Unless there's a way to get the assets that the retirees have raised. Here I agree with Senator Bierecki: indeed, let us return to the Act on reverse mortgage credit. There, these guarantees for pensioners were perhaps so high that they discouraged banks from offering the product. We need to get back to it, find a modus vivendi somewhere to run it. Because the paradox of Polish pensioners is that it is already the first generation in which almost 1/3 has significant assets that could work for them if we created safe tools for it. These private funds must also be taken into account, and this market should be regulated to the end. There's a case to be taken. But the illusion that this proposal is a breakthrough does not seem to me to be entirely thoughtful and responsible. This is a proposal to raise big money for, in my opinion, risky public investment. And that's actually it, because about those 80 or 100 zlotys, which will be an addition to retirement, I don't think it's worth talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u109	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Would a government representative like to comment? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No.]] No. Good. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 955, and the committee report In print No 955 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission of Budgets and Finances on 16 October 2018 gave its opinion at its meeting on a draft law amending the Individual Income Tax Act and certain other laws. It was a government project. This project was presented by Deputy Minister Skiba, representing the Ministry of Finance. In general, this law introduces a new possibility of clearing PIT, namely that under the amendment of the Act which we had previously made, the National Tax Administration will itself present the PIT settlement to all taxpayers. And everyone's gonna be... I'd say, "KAS will settle PIT for every taxpayer." Of course, so far there will be clearing opportunities. If someone does not want to take advantage of this settlement, which will be mandatory for everyone by the National Tax Administration, if someone does not want to take advantage of this possibility, he will be able to use the existing channels, namely to settle himself on paper or, of course, to submit an electronically completed PIT declaration by himself through the e- Declaration portal. How will this work in practice? The National Tax Administration, having all PITs from payers and, of course, using the Social Insurance Institution's data, will draw up a completed PIT declaration. A special tab will be created on the website of the Ministry of Finance and each person will be able to post their data, i.e. NIP and PESEL and income for the past year to enter this tab, review this PIT, which the National Tax Administration has prepared and accepted or, if it does not want to accept, modify, e.g. improve some data, introduce a joint settlement of spouses, or reject. If it rejects, it will automatically be so that it will have to make the declaration itself either in paper form or through an e-declaration. Since 1 January 2019, i.e. already in connection with PIT for the current tax year, this possibility will start when it comes to non-business individuals, and a year later it will be possible for natural persons engaged in business activities, so-called. non-agricultural activities. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of a very large number of taxpayers, we are removing the need created many, many years ago, when we introduced mandatory clearing by taxpayers of PIT. I think it was 1993, if I'm not mistaken. De facto, the settlement remains, but this tax office, which is the new formula of the National Tax Administration, will fill out these declarations for the taxpayer. This, of course, involves amending several other laws in this law, correcting them, because it is quite a significant change in the settlement and the whole tax system. Our Legislative Office has prepared 9 amendments for this bill. These were technical amendments and, according to the legislator, sealing. The representative of the Ministry of Finance did not agree with these amendments, none of the senators took over the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, and finally the bill was unanimously approved at the committee meeting. There was one aspect in the debate... some doubts were raised by representatives of Caritasu. The representatives of Caritasu have raised such a question or raised such a question that if the National Tax Administration prepares and fills this PIT for the taxpayer... It was about the 1% case. tax, namely that the National Tax Administration will automatically indicate this organization, will charge 1% the tax for this organization, which was indicated by the taxpayer last tax year, and if no organization was indicated, it just won't be like last year... Well, it's just that it's hard for the National Tax Administration to choose itself as a taxpayer for an organisation, so if the taxpayer had previously chosen e.g. Caritas or any other public benefit organisation that has the right to accept a copy of this 1% It's supposed to be this year, too. Here Caritasu representatives have said that it is like preserving this money, that it is an action in favour of large organizations, which to some extent already have a certain donor pool or perhaps otherwise: those taxpayers who pointed out these organizations. The Ministry raised the question that there was no other solution. Well, it was possible to take such a solution that no organization would be included, then all the money would de facto go to the state budget. But after all, when we put in this copy, 1%. That's what we're talking about, making as much money as possible for taxpayers. Of course, as I said, when the National Tax Administration prepares this declaration 'Cause it's not gonna be a project anymore, it's gonna be a tax return. The taxpayer will be able to make changes there, among others. will be able to make such a change that it will type e.g. a new organisation, or if there was no organisation entered last year, it will simply enter the KRS number. Caritasu's representatives said that probably everyone clicks, accepts, and won't want to change anything. Well, there's no other solution. Another solution would be to leave these fields empty, so that money would be in the state budget. It was that one declaration that came up. Let's see how this first year works. If in 2019, after the operation in 2018, certain doubts raised by Caritas were repeated, we would wonder how we could modify this in 2020 to meet the expectations of non-governmental organisations even more. Here, to be clear, Caritas is not afraid for himself, he is more afraid for other organizations, because Caritas claims to have such a large base that he will not lose on it, although he raised the question of preserving what is. It is a law which is a revolutionary law. Generally speaking, I would say that these e-services are beginning to enter our reality more and more electronics are entering it. I am pleased that, finally, after many years, these solutions of the 21st century will reach every taxpayer in a tangible way. The bill is not controversial. Let's see how it works. Probably in laundry may come up with a variety of doubts, maybe shortcomings, but I think that after many, many years, taxpayers will not have to submit PITs and everyone will be able to seem... Taxpayers will also have a certain sense of security, because if the IRS has prepared this PIT, it's a question of whether I was wrong... I've had this situation myself, even though I'm an economist. By filling in my PIT, I simply misread the number on my calculator and this, unfortunately, to the detriment of the tax office. Like I said, I'd type it in with a mistake and it'd be a big deal, it'd be like I was probably trying to trick the IRS. And now we have a guarantee that this tax office will fill out a PIT for us. I'm sure there'll also be a large group of people who will benefit from this filling of PITs themselves... or by changing this filled PIT... it'll be like this, for example. Someone will have additional reliefs, someone will want to use relief for religious purposes. Well, there's a lot of different kinds of situations that the IRS isn't gonna see when they prepare PIT on the basis of documents. Then we can modify what has been prepared, or simply submit PIT on our own. But the overwhelming majority do not benefit from relief. These reliefs are getting less and less every year. Therefore, this assembly will be dropped, it will fall in queues at the tax offices. I think this is a very, very positive change. That's my opinion. That's all I can do for myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I have a question. [[There you go.]] Mr. Senator, is it that the IRS will fill in the I.T. Technically it will fill Is it the responsibility for fulfilling it, for the information that is in PIT, that rests with the Chamber, or will it rest on the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u112	No, of course... the House or the National Tax Administration will be filling out PITs on the basis of the documents at its disposal. Yes? And based on these documents... [[No, it's clear to me.]] ...the National Tax Administration takes responsibility for the correctness of... [[Sure, sure. But if the chamber worker makes a mistake...]] It takes on the chamber, the chamber takes responsibility. [[Are you sure?]] 100%. I think the Minister... [[Good.]] ...will have the opportunity to confirm it. After all, the taxpayer cannot take responsibility for the error of the official. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Leszek Skiba like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask a question? You're welcome, Minister. Senator Joseph the Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll try to fit in in three minutes, but this is a problem that needs to be fully formulated... The Act introduces a service consisting in the fulfilment of a tax return by the National Tax Administration, so that it will not be necessary for the taxpayer to submit an application. I believe that this solution is of the utmost use, but I would like to ask you about a question that still concerns the academic community. Please respond to the wording of the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 9 point 3 of the Personal Income Tax Act, according to which the cost of obtaining income is determined for the use by authors of copyright and related rights artists, within the meaning of separate provisions, or for the disposal by them of those rights - 50%. - 50%? - 50%? income obtained, subject to paragraph. 9a and 9b of the Act, in respect of the new provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science, namely Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7, according to which the performance of the academic teacher's duties constitutes a creative activity of an individual character as referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 of the Act of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights. At this point, I would like to point out that Art. Article 22 (2) (b) 9b of the Act on personal income tax provides that paragraph 9b of the Act on personal income tax. Point 3 applies only to the revenue generated by R &amp; D, scientific, scientific, teaching, research, research and teaching activities carried out in universities, while the Law on Higher Education and Science also refers to other works and duties of an academic teacher, which are not mentioned in the provisions of the Act on personal income tax. If there was a difficulty in replying immediately, I would ask for a written reply and all these articles, paragraphs, etc. I can pass it on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u115	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u116	Well, maybe I'll actually start... It will probably be good to put it all in writing in the end, but... in general, this law does not make material changes, changing tax rules and income costs. Here only and only if the payer is cleared and there is any determination related to the value of the cost of obtaining income... The mechanism is that the payer, in this case the university, transfers PIT to the tax office for a scientific worker, where the cost of obtaining income is estimated. As I understand it, the IRS, as they normally do, is preparing a statement based on information from the payer. And this rule only says that whoever is, so to speak, ultimately, the ultimate owner of this testimony, the scientist, will be able to correct the cost of obtaining income if he considers that what the university has done is incorrect for various reasons. And that is the general reason for this provision. But of course, if there is any additional information needed to show it in a broader context, we are able to put it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u117	Do you want me to put this in writing, or is that enough for you, Senator? [[Maybe.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Yes?]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] In writing? Good. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] More... [[There are no questions.]] There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Adam Bielan made his speech in the minutes. But before that, I'd like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Józef Zając. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Cosmetic Products Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 963, and the report of the Commission In print No 963 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 October, the Cosmetic Products Act was discussed at the Health Committee meeting. The purpose of the Cosmetic Products Act submitted to the Senate is to define the obligations of entities and the competence of bodies in implementing the provisions contained in Regulation No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009. The entry into force of the new rules is intended to ensure an appropriate level of safety for cosmetic products which may affect the health of consumers. The law introduces the following legal arrangements. First of all, in the article. 2 There are definitions explaining the concepts used in the Regulation and in the Act, such as: heavy side effects, distributor, manufacturer or cosmetic product. Secondly, in the article. 4 of the Act contains a standard stating that cosmetic products made available on the territory of the Republic of Poland are marked in Polish. Thirdly, a list of establishments producing cosmetic products will be established. It shall be carried out by the district health inspectors competent for the establishment of a cosmetic plant. Fourthly, a system of information on serious adverse reactions caused by the use of cosmetic products has been discussed. This will consist in the processing of data on undesirable effects of cosmetic products reported to the so-called. an administrative centre to which in Poland it will be designated by the Minister responsible for Health, one of the entities forming the system of higher education and science. Fifthly, the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Act provide that supervision of compliance with the provisions of the Act will be exercised within the scope of their competence by the State Sanitary Inspection and Trade Inspection. In the provisions of Article. 18 a centre for information on cosmetic products is envisaged. This centre will provide doctors and dentists with access to information on cosmetic products made available by the European Commission and necessary for appropriate treatment if necessary. It will provide toxicological consultations, analyze the causes of poisoning, have access to scientific databases on the toxicological properties of the substance and will have telephone and electronic emergency communication in case of poisoning or emergencies arising from the use of any cosmetic product. Chapter 5 provides for administrative penalties to be applied in the event of infringements. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, penalties are to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. They do not deviate from other similar cash penalties currently used. In the course of the legislative work there were discussions on which centres would be responsible for registration. It was said that there would actually be 2 registers: register of entrepreneurs and register of adverse reactions. As far as the legislator is concerned, no legislative objections were raised. The Commission adopted the law unanimously at its meeting. We are calling for a vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does your deputy chief health inspector, Miss Isabella Kucharska, wish to take away the bill under consideration? [[Deputy Chief Sanitary Inspector Isabella Kucharska: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Public Documents Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 956, and the committee report In print No 956 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Przemysław Terminski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, a committee meeting was held on this subject. The aim of the Act is to establish a system for the security of public documents by appropriate safeguards, setting out the conditions for such safeguards, the conditions for their storage, production and international cooperation in the security of documents and educational activities in this field. The Act divides public documents into 3 categories. Depending on these categories, these documents require different types of safeguards. At the committee meeting, the only amendments that were tabled were proposed by the legislator. It's about nine amendments. The Government has accepted all these amendments by means of its representative. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted together with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? No such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Voice from the room: He's not here, unfortunately. He's on his way.]] Okay, okay. Let's see if there's any questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the room: Oh, there's the minister.]] Hello, Minister. There were no questions for you. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 965 and the committee report In print No 965 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a report to the committee. [[Voices from the room: He's gone.]] Your senator isn't here. I'm ordering a recess... [[Voice from the room: And she's not answering her cell phone.]] ...five minutes until the senator arrives. [[Voice from the room: The Minister isn't here either.]] There's no minister, either? Then please also call the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 36 to 17 minutes 41]] I'm reopening the session. And I'm announcing a recess until 5:00... no, until 6:00 p.m. Time-out until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 41 to 17 minutes 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u122	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, we proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 965 and the committee report In print No 965 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to submit, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a report on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 October 2018 amending the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in trade in agricultural and food products. Our meeting took place on the 23rd. After hearing the Commission adopted the law without amendments, as we ask the High House. As far as the purpose of the Act is concerned, it is intended to eliminate unfair commercial practices throughout the supply chain of agricultural raw materials and food by including a law on the prevention of unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products in the commercial relations between the supplier and the buyer, regardless of the total value of turnover between them. Formerly, among others. there were certain values. At the moment, the aim is to make it more possible to maintain the anonymity of the notifier and to prevent disclosure of the content of the notification to the parties at all stages of the proceedings. It's actually gonna give us a chance to do it. Not as much as it has so far made it easier to report to the UOKiK authority and to carry out a check. So much for the change, the short change. I ask the High House on behalf of the two committees to support me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u125	Mr. Senator, I would like to know whether this regulation will also apply to unfair practices in the concentration of agricultural fruits?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u126	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. That's what we're talking about. The farmer here is the one who delivers, and the operators who buy from him and apply practices... That's what this mechanism is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u127	Thank you very much. Any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator... [[I still have a question.]] Wait a minute at the pep talker's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Question for the rapporteur, Senator Chróścikowski. Because there are discussions about this law, on the one hand, we know that there are expectations that in Poland we will also finally have as many good food of direct origin, from farms, and on the other hand there are concerns, especially doctors, or... [[That's not the bill.]] We're talking about the bill... [[We're talking about countering unfair exploitation...]] Oh, I'm so sorry, but I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u129	So that's not the point. Yes? [[Not to that point. Excuse me.]] Good. Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, sir. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: No, thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Products of Animal Origin and the Act on Food Safety and Nutrition. The text of the Act is contained in print No 966, and the committee report In print No 966 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. If I may, High Izbo, I will report on the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which took place yesterday. A brief discussion took place at the meeting. The Commission has adopted the Law without amendments and is asking for its support. As far as the purpose of this law is concerned, it is the abolition of the obligation to obtain approval of establishments and entities wishing to start food production activities in the context of direct sales or marginal, local and limited to veterinary inspection bodies in the case of products of animal origin and the State Sanitary Inspection. The production and placing on the food market of direct sales and marginal, local and limited activities is local and quantitatively limited. Therefore, the requirements for food law rules on the conduct of such activities should be less restrictive. And that's what we wanted most. Proceedings initiated on the basis of the existing provisions on the approval of the undertaking's technological project or the change of use of the plant on the date of entry into force will be terminated. I would like to point out that we have actually raised these problems, because it was often necessary, because first consent, then start operations... Therefore, at the moment all these simplified rules can be applied to the processing of the product even in small local, domestic areas, which will actually help farmers to retail as well as local, marginal sales. I guess that's it. This is indeed the expected change. It adapts to 2 European Union directives that allow such mechanisms to be applied here. And if we can bring our rights into line with Directive 853 of the European Parliament or the other directive... Yes, thank you. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u131	Thank you very much, too. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to... Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u132	Thank you very much, Marshal. It is at this point that I am going to address this question to the rapporteur, because I think that on the one hand there are growing expectations in the food market, concerning food that is not processed or lowly processed, high quality and natural, and on the other hand there are concerns of doctors responsible for health, whether this law is going this way in order to make health conditions worse. Of course, I am very much in favour of simplifying and creating the conditions for the most common production in farms or small plants, but maybe the senator will resolve these doubts here and tell you if there have been any analyses, studies, opinions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u133	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u134	I don't think it's a bill that's going to make things worse, like Mr. Senator here had doubts. I think she's going to make it easier. And if we're talking about making it easier, that doesn't mean it's gonna get worse. The point is that, in the case of local, marginal and limited production, it was difficult to obtain all the documentation, with the approval of the veterinarian. At this point the farmer takes action and assumes responsibility, but the control continues to exist and the conditions he should fulfil must fulfil, only not in such a way that he will hear: we will not give you permission, because you are not fulfilling all this, you must fulfill it. And the inspection will continue to be carried out by the veterinarian or by the State Sanitary Inspection in the case of the processing of plant products. It will continue to be an obligation to control processed products, I repeat. And when it comes to retail sales, we remember This is what we've been discussing here recently. That she will also be applied on such terms that at home, in the kitchen I will be able to do so and I will be able to sell to a certain... We expect a second amendment of the law that will introduce this provision The government has already announced this. We're going to raise the threshold from 20,000 to 40,000, which will give the majority a chance... Of course, then we go into a 2% flat-rate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u135	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Szymon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: No, thank you kindly.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the 12th item of the agenda, i.e. the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned utility enterprise - Poczta Polska. The text of the Act is contained in print No 964, and the report of the Commission In print No 964 A. I would ask Senator Jan Hamerski, rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, to present to the High House a draft amendment to the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise The amendment proposed to the law refers to the legal provision in force until 2008 and also responds to the social expectations of apartment users in the so-called. the stock of Polish Post. Until 2008, until the adoption of the Act on Commercialisation of the State Company, which is Posta Polska, it was possible to dispose of these apartments regardless of the purpose of the buildings in which they are located. The Commercialisation Act included a record that only dwellings in residential buildings could be sold With a discount if the company decides to sell it. As far as other residential premises in non-residential buildings are concerned, the law no longer provided such possibility for Poczta Polska. I would like to say that the buildings of the Polish Post are mostly buildings before 1939. They were usually built as post offices with an apartment for the postmaster. Most of these buildings are non-residential today because the residential area in these buildings is less than 50% the surface of the building, the surface of the building. In many of these buildings, postal offices are already closed today, and only the apartments in which the tenants are located remain. More than 3/4 of Poczta Polska's real estate stock is located in these buildings prior to 1939. The maintenance of these buildings requires constant expenditure and this is, of course, related to the costs incurred by Poczta Polska. I would also like to point out that this law does not impose an obligation on the Post office to sell these apartments to tenants, but gives the possibility to purchase them with a discount by tenants if the Post office decides to sell. I have a request for the High House to bend over this law and adopt it in accordance with the proposal of the Infrastructure Commission to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Does anyone have a question for the senator? No. You just entered Minister Marek Chodkiewicz. [[Thank you.]] Mr. Senator, thank you so much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: I don't think that's necessary. If you have any questions, of course I'll answer.]] Good. Thank you, Minister. Now I have a question for the senators. The current senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask Minister Chodkiewicz a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Just a few notes. The Senator rapporteur was just talking about non-residential buildings, about the state in which they are. I would like to point out that these are different buildings. These are non-residential buildings, old buildings, before the war, the ones we're talking about. But there's a certain variety in the resource. Undoubtedly, to get a bonus and get an apartment, you have to have an agreement for an indefinite period of time. What's important is, of course, the fact that if someone doesn't have an indefinite contract, they won't be able to benefit from it, with a discount of up to 95%. Of course, there are rules in terms of separation, the separation of the premises. You have to separate it according to the Property Act, etc., etc. There's just one thing I'd like to point out. I asked that at the committee meeting. This is an important matter. The post office obviously doesn't have to dispose of all the locations that are in stock, but undoubtedly That's what I've heard. It's important. In the case of the buildings that you have just mentioned here, the rapporteur, the non-residential ones, those in which there used to be some mailrooms and apartments, it is very simple. First of all, you're gonna have to move out of the apartment and then you're gonna have to move in. We've learned that the post office won't enter the housing community. This is very important, because there are thousands of apartments and it would all be complicated, of course. I think it's a good direction, that it won't... This is probably not going to work anywhere, because in the case of many multi-family buildings, which are not residential buildings, the situation will be difficult. First, of course, we will have to separate the premises from each other. There are rules, there are walls, etc. etc. If there's another non-residential place there, it won't be easy. But I think that's what the president is for, and that's what employees are for, to try to solve this problem. I don't think it's gonna work in all the apartments, but the fact is that people who lived in apartments could benefit from a bonus, and someone who lived across the street and had the same apartment couldn't benefit. It's not fair. That is why we will support this law as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 958 and the report of the Commission In print No 958 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u140	Ms Marshal, I will present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, on which the Law on the amendment of the Act on the Drivers of Vehicles No. 958 was discussed. First, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz spoke, who presented the objectives of the bill. The Act aims to ensure that a category B driving licence entitles its holder to drive also a tricycle, provided that he has had a driving licence of that category for at least 3 years. I'll give you a heads-up right away. Such provisions shall apply but shall not apply to tricycles. There is a reservation for 3 years, engine capacity up to 125 cm3 and power up to 11 kW. I'm talking about not being supposed to drive all the bikes. In the current legal state, only the holder of a category A licence shall be entitled to drive each type of tricycle. A driver who is entitled to drive a motorbike, provided that the driver of the 21st year of age has completed it. The extension of the privileges of drivers holding a category B licence for at least 3 years by the right to drive each type of tricycle has been justified by the needs of disabled persons, as some disabilities exclude taking a category driving licence test A, a allow you to get a category B driver's license. This is a parliamentary submission. In the Seym, 424 Members voted in favour of the bill, there were no votes against and no one abstained. At the committee meeting, the proposal did not raise any discussion. It was Senator Flork's question, how many more or less can use such authority. The Minister replied that at the moment about 600 people. The draft law was adopted unanimously by the senators. End of report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Dear Senators, the bill was introduced by Members. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marek Chodkiewicz is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Do the senators wish to ask a government representative questions about this item on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers either. Thank you very much. I therefore open the discussion. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u142	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, I'm in favour of the bill, and I'd like it to be known. We have recently made it easier for people with disabilities to pass a category B driving test. Do you remember that the idea was that they should not bear the costs for the practical part, to facilitate the acquisition of cars by the disabled. Therefore, many people are probably interested, especially those with disabilities, in order to pass a category B driving licence test. Of course, for some disabilities it is not possible to pass a category driving licence test A. Therefore, the requirement to hold a category driving licence And in the case of tricycles... And we know that there are categories A, B, C, D, E, etc., there's this division. Here we are talking about these 2 categories, categories A and B. In this respect, it is very right that this should be the case, as the rapporteur has just said, of a small group of people. In fact, it is possible for these people to... If anyone has... we all know from experience that when we drive a car, and we're probably almost all licensed... to change from a motorcycle to a tricycle, so to speak, the car is probably a lot harder than to change from a car to a tricycle, because the driving rules are similar. That is why, of course, we must agree to this. There is still a matter of these 3 years, that you need to have a category B driver's license for at least 3 years so that you can use this tricycle and drive it. And it's so... Well, there's gotta be a recipe. There's gotta be something. But if someone, for example. he passed his driving test and he didn't drive for three years, anyway, it doesn't change the form of things at all. So that whenever it's said it's about having a document... Well, it's something extra that I don't think brings anything. But the fact is, if someone was driving a car with four wheels in it, and he switched to three wheels, it was probably easier for him to move from two wheels to three wheels. So that it is undoubtedly necessary to support this law as much as possible and to allow those who could not drive such a tricycle, such a motorbike, to benefit from such a solution after this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 960 and the report of the Commission In print No 960 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka. [[There's no minister...]] The Minister will be here any minute, Senator, he's on his way. You're welcome. Senator Czesław Ryszka will present the report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 23 October this year, the committees shall unanimously request that the attached draft resolution be adopted together with the amendment. I would just like to remind you that the act aims to enable the exercise of the right to purchase free of charge by eligible employees shares of the company resulting from commercialisation in the event of its merger with the Polish Press Agency SA It's about combining by taking over. The current law does not provide for the right to acquire shares of the Polish Press Agency, i.e. the acquiring company, by employees of the company resulting from commercialisation, i.e. the acquired company. In addition, in accordance with Article. Paragraph 7 1 revised State Treasury Act retains 100% shares, i.e. all shares in the Polish Press Agency. According to art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 and of certain rights of employees, entitled employees shall have the right to acquire up to 15% free of charge shares or shares covered by the Treasury on the date on which the company was entered in the register. As the result of the merger with the Polish Press Agency will be the removal of the company acquired from the court register, it will in fact prevent its authorised employees from exercising the right mentioned, i.e. referred to in Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 30 August 1996 on commercialisation and certain rights of employees. In view of the above, i.e. in view of the particular fairness, it is proposed that entitled employees of the company being acquired, instead of the right to acquire shares or shares of the company being acquired free of charge, may benefit from the right to acquire shares of the Polish Press Agency which are covered by the Treasury as a result of the merger. The inclusion of shares will take place under the provisions of Section IV of the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 and certain rights of employees. The eligible persons will have to comply with the conditions set out in this Act. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. As far as the amendment is concerned, it concerns the amendment of the Article. 7 in the Act of 31 July 1997 on the Polish Press Agency. Namely in the article. 7. the following paragraph shall be added. 7 and 8 as follows. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7: In the event of the transfer of all the assets of the company resulting from the commercialisation, hereinafter referred to as the acquired company, to the Company persons entitled to acquire free of charge shares or shares of the acquired company from the Treasury, in place of the right to acquire shares or shares of the acquired company free of charge, may benefit from the right to acquire the shares covered by the Treasury as a result of the acquisition. I paragraph 8: to the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 1. Article 1 shall apply. Point 2 (5) and Section IV of the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 and certain rights of employees. And, as I mentioned, the bill comes into force 14 days after its announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u145	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you have that question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. It's... Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, should be with us. He's on his way. There's traffic. Will there be any questions for the Minister or... [[Voice from the hall: It will be in 2 minutes, it is on the square of the Three Crosses. Two minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: No questions.]] [[There isn't.]] [[It's a fair and fair bill.]] Isn't it? I don't think we're gonna announce a break. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, since there will be no questions to the Minister, I am opening the discussion. Let's see if anybody signed up, see if they're... [[Nobody.]] No one signed up for the discussion. I'm telling you, I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 961 and the committee report In print No 961 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mr Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptible. The Commission met at its meeting on 23 October, which is yesterday, and asks the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Only one senator abstained in the vote. Let me remind you that the purpose of the bill is to establish the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptibles as a state holiday. The date of Christmas was chosen for the celebration of the Blessed Virgin Mary on 19 October. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, as it is the day of his abduction and, according to present knowledge, martyrdom. The consecrated feast is an expression of homage to the clergy who expressed their attitude not only in their heroic faith, but also in their bravery and steadfast patriotic attitude, often spilling blood in defence of Poland's Christian homeland. During the committee's proceedings it was emphasized that in Polish history we had very many forms of steadfast and heroic clergy for whom Christian ideas and faith in God were the basis of apostolicism and who often, especially in the years of partitions, wars and the loss of sovereignty, strengthened among the public attitudes to regain and maintain independence. It was during these difficult years of our history that the Church and the clergy were depositaries of lost or threatened statehood. They raised generations to freedom, and when freedom returned, they helped to rebuild a free and independent state. In the discussion in the committee briefly, but the words about Polish priests who participated in the uprisings were with Polish soldiers on the fronts of World War I and II, they died in concentration camps, in communist prisons, accused of anti-state activities. They were eliminated from public life. It can be mentioned that 108 clergymen among them, martyrs of the Second World War, were beatified in 1999 by John Paul II in Piłsudski Square. I would add that John Paul II, a year later, in 2000, also beatified 11 martyrs of Nazareth, who offered themselves for 12 arrested residents of Novgorodek, who were to be shot by the Germans. Nazaretanki were murdered by shooting on 1 August 1943. I am talking about this example because clergymen are not only priests, but all those who are, according to the new canonical law, called consecrated persons. As there were doubts about the definition of clergy as steadfast, I would like to remind you that the expression has been used so far with regard to the heroic soldiers of the underground. I would like to remind you of the names and circumstances of death only some of them, just to show their integrity. Such steadfast clergymen were I'm saying, for example, of course. - St. - St. - St. - St. - St. - Mm-hmm. Andrzej Bobola, patron of Poland defending the faith, but also the homeland; St. Zygmunt Szczęsny Feliński, Archbishop of Warsaw, for his patriotic attitude sent into Russia; Fr. General Stanisław Brzóska, January insurgent; Fr. Ignacy Skorupka, found with a bullet in his heart during the Battle of Warsaw; father Maximilian Kolbe, who gave his life for his brother in Auschwitz; 30 fathers of redemptorists murdered during the Warsaw Uprising; priest chaplain Józef Stanek, tortured and hanged on his own stole, also during the Warsaw Uprising. Thousands of steadfast clergymen murdered in concentration camps, NKVD Katownia, Katyn, Miednoje, Kharkov or Rakowiecka in Warsaw should also be mentioned. As for the priests that weren't murdered by the invaders, as well as the oppressors of the people, I'm just going to name a few names. These are priests: Zygmunt Kaczyński, Michał Pilipiec, Michał Rapacz, Władysław Gurgacz, Stanisław Domański, Roch Łaski, Roman Kotlarz, Kazimierz Fertak or the father of Dominicans Honoriusz Stanisław Kowalczyk. Finally, we must mention the murders called the founding of the Third Republic of Poland, committed by the death commando led by General Czesław Kiszczak. These are: Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, Chaplain of Solidarity; Stefan Niedzielak, author of the Katyn List; Stanisław Suchowolec, pastor of labor, bringing together members of the Delegated Solidarity; Sylvester Ziche, a priest imprisoned and persecuted by the SB, who was accused of leading the organization of counter-revolutionary priests. Let me add that the dramatic circumstances of the deaths of priests Niedzielak, Suchowolca and Zych have common features. It's like the last chord of undoubtedly professional murderers, said unknown perpetrators, connected by a long and bloody chain of undiscovered crimes and political murders on commission or by inspiration from other leaders of the Polish United Workers' Party. The sacrifices of the clergy sons can be added by way of a lot more, because the Church had many great figures. I was told by priest Joseph Wójcik of Suchedniów, about whom I wrote a book, a priest arrested and persecuted many times in the Polish People's Republic, that one day a man knelt before the bars of the confessional As it turned out, a repentant esbek And he told him that he had attended the meeting of such a commandant of death and that it was decided that Fr. The uncle neutralizes. We know what that word meant at the time. It's a miracle the communists didn't murder, for example. Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk or card. Henry Gulbinovich. But in the case of cards. August Hlond or Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, servants of God, we are not sure of that. High Izbo! We treat this law in a situation where in cinemas there is a disgraceful film "Klere," mocking clergymen as a whole. The title speaks for itself. However, the unworthy attitude of the priestly state cannot obscure the tribute of life and blood, the full consecration of the ministry that thousands of clergymen carried. We're still carrying. I can think of such a comparison: it's as if someone, describing the beautiful rose bush, took care only of fertilizer, thanks to which the earth under this bush was fertilized, and yet all the beauty of this rose bush lies in colors, as well as in a beautiful rose fragrance. We should ask where is the limit of absurdity, or more specifically where is the limit of disregard for religious feelings or even blasphemy. Cardinal. Gerhard Müller, who visited the Senate on Monday, at the conference 'Europe Christi', referring just to the film 'Klere', the German cardinal referred to the film 'Klere', said that the propaganda that is now being published in the media by the film 'Klere' hits all Poles. This is how you try to destroy the spiritual substance of Poland. He said, "I call you to stand behind your priests who baptised you, so that we may not give in to this false propaganda." If we are to nurture our true history, remind the next generation of great Poles, we must not overlook the clergy. This bill is 30 years late. It should have been adopted at the threshold of free Poland to emphasize that in over 1050 years the history of Poland is inherently inscribed in Christianity and its values, and since the dawn of history we have had tens of thousands of steadfast, heroic clergymen. In conclusion, but still in relation to the film, I would like to add that it is part of a global war with Christianity, a kind of counter-revolution that is now moving from the West to our homeland. In the words of Feliks Koneczny: "In Poland there is a fight for the future of Europe. The fate of Europe hung from the fate of the Church in Poland. In Poland we will find out In a relatively short period of time Whether the Church will not cease to be a factor in public life for several generations, or will lead a new period of history. He continues to write Koneczny: "This is about a game as big as rarely in history. To win, we must win this battle in Poland. This is a field of glory or disaster here. Here, at our place, everything will be settled. Feliks Koneczny wrote these words in the face of a slightly different threat, and the cultural situation was different. However, in part these words are fulfilled today: Europe already resembles a battlefield in the field of Christian values, and the fight with the Church has moved to Poland. Therefore, I will repeat the words of Felix Koneczny: In order to win, we must win this battle in Poland. This is a field of glory or disaster here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator rapporteur, please come because there are questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u148	Mr. Senator, I'm not a member of the committee, so I don't know the discussion, but after your speech, Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you this: whose initiative was this bill? Was it a parliamentary initiative? If so, what Members? Who came up with this initiative? Well, we know that we have the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. Of course, I appreciate the role of priests, but also doctors, I don't know, paramedics, teachers and others who could also be honored in the same way. And to adopt such a law at this very moment... You mentioned here, among other things. for the movie "Klere." I don't know if you were in that movie. This is very important, because the state often tells amazing stories... I was, I saw that movie. What you referred to, what you said, is not true. And so I think you're doing a bear favor right now, because I don't think the Church in this situation, what it is... that such a resolution at this very moment... You said it could have been 15 years ago. Okay, it could have been two years ago, a year ago... My question is why, then, this initiative, who's behind it and why it's here. 'Cause I think you're doing the church a favor right now. And I also have the opinion of a lot of priests I know about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u149	The question has been asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u150	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this bill came to the Senate from the Sejm, it was a parliamentary project. We were in the Committee on Culture and Communications, and only one senator abstained from voting, and everyone was in favour. During the committee's deliberations, I brought up these threads that I had put forward here. Well, maybe I've been a little wider now, so I don't have to be in the discussion anymore. Why now? I don't know why. Card. Gerhard Müller, who had a beautiful speech during the congress, at the conference "Europe Christi', also spoke about this film that he disgraces Poles. He certainly wasn't in the film, but he said it was an insult to all the believing Poles. Since the German cardinal thus defends the Poles, I also wanted to refer to it. And you, Mr. Senator, tomorrow, when the vote is made, will say yes, no or abstain. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No, I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: Thank you.)]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn has signed up. Mr. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law reminds me of the attitude of many priests from my district, from my side, who gave their lives because they were activists of the Polish Union in Germany, who were Kashubas, who were murdered in the Monastery Mountain on the border, reminds me of the attitude of the Blessed One. Michał Kozala, whom my elderly friend, Fr. Bronisław Miller, about card posture. Ignacy Jez, a prisoner who survived and whose story is moving. I am a founding member of the association of his memory, one of the perpetrators of building a beautiful square in my city to remind him of this character. However, despite the fact that there are so many certificates, I have some doubts that we are making a good move. Firstly, very much, as the rapporteur said, these people have received their prize and have their days. The days established by the Church to commemorate their martyrdom, heroism. They don't need an extra one. Secondly, I wonder if the inventors really have the approval of the clergy themselves. I also met with such opinions that the establishment of such a day at this point Mr. Senator mentioned these circumstances here, in my opinion, really unnecessary It will be considered instrumental, as a certain response to what is going on around it, as a bit of a scuffle in this regard. It seems to me that if these great men, the great priests, could answer, they would say that they were doing it for the Lord, for men, and not for vain glory. That's why I'm wondering how to behave. I almost remember that an entire army of wonderful border teachers, those murdered and buried under the pavement in the World, those unbreakable ones who taught on secret sets throughout Poland, risking their lives. I don't know who was more, who was more, and what he deserved. One could mention here, as it were, to walk in the competitions and ask: why not them, why not them? But I came out here on the stand after all and above all to mention these people, these wonderful priests, teachers, railwaymen who were steadfast. It is worth remembering them not only on the day dedicated to the symbol, which was Fr. George Popiełuszko, but more often, much more often, especially locally, where all this was happening. It's about who it was for and who it was for. Of course, let everyone decide what's a good move and what's a bad move. However, I was taught at church that only the truth liberates. The truth sets it free. Even the Cardinal's fear doesn't trigger the truth. Yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u153	Thank you. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... Excuse me, Senator Antoni Szymanski, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Invited guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Seeing the need and importance of introducing a new state holiday, i.e. National Day of Spiritual Remembrance, I would like to highlight the special role played by the clergy in the history of the Gdansk Pomerania. It is a special region which enjoyed Poland's regaining independence twice, in 1918 and in 1920. Let us remind you that as a result of the First World War and the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles, Gdańsk Pomerania with access to the sea returned to the reborn Second Republic. The Pomeranian Front was then established, whose main task was to take over these lands from German hands. His commanding officer was General Józef Haller. The ratification of the Treaty of Versailles took place on 10 January 1920. Exactly a month later, the Blue Army's creator in Puck made the symbolic marriage of Poland with the sea. This date is celebrated in Pomerania like the second day of independence. This would be difficult without the patriotic, pro-Polish clergy activity conducted over the years. Their silhouettes to this day for many remain anonymous. It is worth recalling some of them. Priests Felix Bolt, Józef Wrycza, Henryk Antoni Szuman and many, many other clergymen in the Prussian elections conducted independent activities within the organization of Pomeranian Philomats. They were often harassed, expelled from schools, arrested for this. They also carried out social, economic andcharitative activities, set up folk banks and them. directing, creating agricultural and commercial cooperatives. They led organizations dealing with capable but poor young people, taking care of children who lost their parents as a result of the First War. In the press, among others. Kotciewski's Pilgrim, they called for stronger links between the Polish community and the Republic. After the outbreak of World War II, they became particularly vulnerable to extermination because of their attitude. Fr. The squirrel was associated with the secret organization of Gryf Pomorskie, the largest independent structure in Pomerania. Father Szuman was shot on 2 October 1939 under the wall of St. Santa Claus in Fordon near Bydgoszcz. Fr. Bolt was arrested by the Gestapo on March 21, 1940 in the Great Thursday and was sent to the Stutthof concentration camp. He died a dozen days later. In this context, it should be stressed that Pomerania is a special region due to the blood tribute that its inhabitants had during World War II. Only during the first months of the German occupation, during the autumn of 1939, about 30,000 people were murdered. Among those affected by the German extermination, there was a special group of clergymen. In the diocese of Chelm, the Germans murdered 311 Polish priests during the war, i.e. almost half of all priests. Only in the Szpęgawski Forest in Kociewi about 70 priests lost their lives, among others. representatives of the Chelmian bishop's curia, professors of the seminary in Pelplina, as well as lecturers of the famous Collegium Marianum. The place of the clergy was also the Sand Forest. It was there that the Blessed Sister Alicja Kotowska from the Assembly of the Resurrection Sisters was shot by the Germans. Before the war, she led a female middle school in Wejherów. Next to Sister Kotowska in Piśnica, 53 Catholic clergymen, known by name, lost their lives. Another place where outstanding representatives of the Pomeranian clergy lost their lives was the German concentration camp Stutthof. It was there that priests Bronisław Komorowski, Franciszek Rogaczewski and Marian Górecki were shot, today belonging to a group of 108 Polish martyrs beatified by John Paul II in Warsaw on 13 June 1999. They conducted pastoral ministry for Poland in the Free City of Gdańsk, they were leaders of Polish patriotic associations and organizations. After World War II, in Pomerania, there were also priests engaged in conspiracy activities within the National Army. Among them were among others. Fr. Józef Zator-Zodocki, Dean of the district of AK Kraków. In 1948, as a parish priest of one of the Gdansk churches, he was arrested by the UB and transported to Warsaw, imprisoned in the investigative custody of the Ministry of Public Security and then in the X Pavilion of Investigation in Mokotów. After a serious investigation, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison. He went free after the amnesty in 1955. The clergyman played an excellent role in shaping opposition attitudes in Pomerania in the second half of the 1970s. From the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary to the Holy Mass on May 3 and November 11 there were demonstrations of the movement of Young Poland and free trade unions at the monument of Jan III Sobieski. Among the border priests seeking refuge in Pomerania was also Fr. Józef Waląg. The priest was an AK priest and activist of the Association of Freedom and Independence, organizer of self-defense against the troops of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in Lukavec in Podkarpacie. He was imprisoned first in Tomaszów Lubelski, then at the castle in Lublin. After he got out of prison, he went under an assumed name in Pomerania. He was the creator of the Caritas Diocese of Gdansk. He was arrested again for his activities. As a parish priest in Pruszcz Gdański, he supported workers during December 1970 and August 1980, as well as in the state of war. The clergyman, who particularly connected the tradition of the Home Army with pastoral service among the people of Solidarity, was Fr. Hilary Jastak The king of the Kashubs. 17 December 1970 Fr. Jastak celebrated the Holy Mass for the murders in the streets of Gdynia. In the parish he provided material and spiritual assistance to the families of the victims. 10 years later, on 17 August, he held the first Eucharist in the history of the Polish People's Republic at the communist workplace. The priests supporting the anti-communist opposition in Pomerania and the movement of the Solidarity movement were very many Fr. Stanisław Bogdanovich, Fr. Henryk Jankowski or Dominican o. Louis Wiśniewski and many others. It is good that the Gdańsk Institute of National Remembrance already this year organized the first historical celebration devoted to the solid priests, reminding them of their unique contribution to the history of Pomerania. In conclusion: there would be no 1918 without the participation of the clergy, there would be no Pomeranian independence in 1920 without the long-term work of priests. It was not by chance near General Józef Haller during the wedding of Poland with the sea that the clergy stood: the first Navy chaplain of the Second Republic, the blessed Fr. Władysław Miegon and the famous homily directed to the Pomeranian population of Kaszub and Kociewiak Fr. Józef Wrycza. Poland would not abandon the Nazi and communist yoke without the great contribution of the Polish clergy, the AK chaplains, the National Armed Forces, the soldiers' chaplains, and finally the priests of the democratic opposition of the Polish People's Republic and the Solidarity. Without the participation of the clergy, then, there would be no second independence. The year 1989. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I am very pleased with the adoption of a law which, through the establishment of the National Day of Spiritual Remembrance of the Incorruptible, honors these clergymen. When asked by representatives of the opposition, why do we distinguish this particular social group, while many other professional groups For example, teachers or others, in their opinion, are equally worthy to preserve the spirit of independence of our homeland, I am responsible. In all of Poland's history, this clergy went on as rarely as they did, given the number of our clergy. A great sacrifice to preserve our independent existence and faith. At the same time, independent existence and faith in Poland are so complex that it is impossible to separate them. It is a wonderful Polish phenomenon that exists, exists and, I hope, will continue to exist. That's why I think honoring this phenomenon is very reasonable and deliberate. It was priests, like no other, who made the greatest sacrifice in terms of their number, the number of people who lost their lives or were otherwise persecuted. This is not, of course, about statistics and a race in assessing the merits of individual groups, but it happens that it is the Church and priests who take the first place here. I would like to point out that without this work, centuries of work, especially at a time when Poland after 1795 did not have an independent existence for 123 years... It was through working at the foundation of the clergy that society was maintained with the hope that independence would one day return. The faith not only in God, but also in the fact that Poland will one day be resurrected, was preserved. I would like to remind here, for example, the magnificent works of Father Kozminski, who appointed a whole array of various religious institutions, institutions that carried out huge work at the foundation. I remind you that in the Russian partition, these were institutions that acted illegally, secretly, those nuns and those nuns who formed these institutions, after all they did not bear any signs that would allow them to be recognized, so priests were without sutanns and colorants. And yet what a great work it was! In fact, it could be said that it was perhaps the clergy that prepared our society the most to regain independence. And if we consider the next period in Poland's history, the period of World War II... After all, it was thanks to such steadfast priests who were very often killed for their attitude. Like Archbishop Nowowiejski or many others who... Incidentally, they were honored even by the Holy Father, who, during his stay, on the pilgrimage on June 13, 1999, raised to glory the blessed 108 priests. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the steadfast attitude of such clergymen as in Krakow, the legendary archbishop, Prince Adam Sapieha... The Archbishop of Prince Adam Sapieha had the courage to take General Frank in his palace, answering the invitation to meet him when he said: no, I will not come to you at Wawel, where General Frank had his seat, only if you want to meet me, I invite you to myself, to the palace. And to the question surprised by this Governor Frank, why he gives him such a low, he answered: I give you what my people feed on every day. He was such a heroic cardinal that he had the courage also during the reign of the communist system to resist the oppression of those who thought they were winners and rulers of the world who wanted to change into their fashion. He even aroused a kind of fear, fear, to the point that they did not dare to touch him, while they weighed on to assassinate Fr. Card. Wyszynski, of whom, as we know, "Unlawful, wrongfully arrested and imprisoned for a period of approx. 3 years. Not until after the death of Fr. Card. Adam Sapieha made a kind of act of revenge throughout the Cracow Church, breaking into the Bishop's curia, making confiscation of property there, arresting several priests, giving them a disgraceful trial and sentenceing many priests to long-term imprisonments, persecuting even the head of the Archdiocese of Fr. Archbishop Baziak, reminds me, the last metropolitan city of Lviv, who later became the manager, because the communists refused to allow him to become a metropolitan city of Cracow. The same archbishop Baziak was imprisoned in Krakow, wanted to judge him, but eventually the proceedings were dismissed for lack of any evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, these are examples that can be multiplied, and many can be cited. I had the privilege of knowing many of these priests personally, such as Fr. Kazimierz Jancarz, who was such a Krakow priest. With the ashes, but luckily he escaped the fate of Fr. The ashes. Therefore, I believe that they are full of grounds, we have a full moral law, and even a kind of duty, that such a law should be proclaimed and thus honored by those clergymen who are a model for us to love our homeland, to maintain our faith and those highest, noblest values, which should be an indication of our conduct. Therefore, I propose that a law be adopted, which is an expression of honor and honor for these wonderful priests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u157	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Silence took some of what I wanted to say. Well, we have statistics on the martyrdom of priests during World War II. As I recall, more than 50% were killed in the Warty Country. Priests. Thus, it was a particularly vulnerable and particularly damaged professional group. The name Fr. Card. Gulbinovich as a solid priest who didn't have anything to do with him, but there's a documented case of his car being blown up. We don't know if it was an assassination attempt, but it was definitely an attempt at serious intimidation. And I remember the Cardinal because we celebrated his 90th birthday in Wroclaw during the days. During the discussion, after the vote, we were wondering about a certain... Perhaps there's been abuse or substitution of meanings. In this case, we are writing the title "Integrity," which in recent years means a certain attitude of patriotic integrity. She undoubtedly accompanied many decisions of heroic priests, but I look at the great gesture of Father Maximilian Kolbe first of all in the Christian dimension, and this word is unbreakable as if it semantically conveys this meaning somewhere... Perhaps it is not the most accurate here. And on the other hand, I'm gonna say it again. There is a certain integrity in this profession. I know this is not the subject of this debate, but I would like to argue with a certain view, because I think we are creating a bad intellectual stereotype. It's not that in order for me to comment on something, I need to get to know it very carefully, because there is such a thing as authority. And tell me... It's not like if there's a Golgota Picnic on the afish, then I have to go, let myself get offended, and then I can say shocked that it's something terrible, something that offends me to the bottom. Well, if we're eliminating authority, I really need to examine everything with a glass and an eye. And I think it's a little similar with the movie we're talking about. Even if someone reads it like that And I have read such statements, also about Picnic's Golgotha, that it is deeply Christian, it must remember that often the statements of these directors, as in the case of the director of the film, are very aggressive towards religion and holiness, which are important to me. And I'm going to end this with a morally motivated love, which I think is a certain comment on whether I have to participate in something that is going to offend me so that I can relate to it. The lover writes this: Easier than you think to lose your soul... ♪ 'Cause you're a sponge ♪ You absorb everything. The principle must be strict... You'd better look cold, As long as it doesn't grow on you. Tropical mosses of unwashed souls. Yeah, let's not mix concepts. We don't always have an opinion, we don't always understand certain processes that we use, such as those related to physics and other things. I think it's an intellectual stereotype: I have to go, let myself be stumbled, and only then can I be offended. No. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Czesław Ryszka, 5 minutes. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Ten minutes. It was a report.]] Yes? Oh, I'm sorry. The senator was the rapporteur. I understand. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u160	I just have a few thoughts, a few comments. Namely in these few speeches, beginning with Senator Augustine, we have already heard about dramatic characters in our history, which absolutely must be exposed and shown to future generations as patterns of behaviour of Poles, especially in such difficult times. I thank the senator for this statement, but you added this question: if these heroes have already received a reward from God, should this be emphasized in the earthly way? If we thought so, we would have to deny the canonization processes in the Church. The Church, undertaking such a process, is actually already convinced that this figure, this person, has completed 100 percent of the gospel in her life. This is just a matter of, let's say, some legal historical documents needed to document it and later in this process take someone to the altars. John Paul II says that these numerous canonizations the Church makes are not to confirm that these people are with God, but to show them to us as patterns of life. And so do these characters of steadfast clergymen. You have already mentioned your local heroes priests. So that on that day, on the day of this feast, and this will be the day of 19 October, the memory of the murdered Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko In these local communities, we will worship, remember these priests, these clergymen, because they deserved it, and point to their example. The question is, why are we setting this day up right now? Let me put it straight: this is an antidote, maybe an accidental coincidence, but this is an antidote to this disgraceful Poles, believing Poles, film. You can shake your head, but... how else do you defend yourself, how else do you show evil? After all, Smarzowski himself says he's an atheist. So the atheist goes to a movie about priests, about people of faith. Well, we're deaf, blind can write some musical composition, but will it have anything to do with music at all? I don't know. In any case, these few statements here showed how important it is to pass this holiday for the meaning of Polish history, for future generations, so that in life in this freedom, which I hope will last several hundred years, this memory of heroes, steadfast clergymen, all heroes, will not disappear. The Church says the saints walked through Poland. For 1050 years Poland has spent hundreds of holy people on altars. Because they're saints... They not only, theologically speaking, mediate in the graces we receive from God, but above all, they are examples of life for us. If we wanted to skip it, we would actually do great harm to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that after consideration of the next item, or item 17 of the agenda, there will be an adjournment by 11 a.m. tomorrow. And now we are considering item 17 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. The text of the act is contained in print No. 959, and the report of the committee In print No 959 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u162	I'd say, "Continue on the movies." Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Council of Europe Convention entails a decision to amend the rules on co-production. This was signed by the Polish ambassador in Strasbourg by Janusz Stańczyk in the middle of the previous year. It is about amending the 1997 Convention, adopted by Poland in 2003, i.e. after 6 years; now it is much faster. This amendment to the Convention is related to the fact that there has been a rather dynamic development of modern audiovisual technologies, the rules for financing this type of production have changed slightly, and the need to open up to... This is not only about intra-European co-production, because very often co-production concerns countries outside the Council of Europe. This earlier convention, so to speak, supported European cinema, and at the moment it puts its emphasis on showing diversity. In total, the convention seems to be a document that adapts many things to the present, updating them. After all, we have a very big change in this area. In my opinion, it does not have any political or legal implications, according to the legislator and also in the government's opinion. It's supposed to be about creating a good movie. I ask you kindly to allow me to ratify the convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Is that a question? No. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law was introduced by the government. Ministers of foreign affairs and national culture and heritage were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No.]] Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Minister? Because this is the moment when you can ask such a question? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there communications? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u164	The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act on Employee Capital Plans will be held tomorrow at 8.15 in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws will take place tomorrow, at 8.50 am in room 217. The meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee on the resolution of the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons will be held tomorrow, at 8.30 a.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the Act on the establishment of a national holiday on the occasion of the centenary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland will take place tomorrow, at 10.00 in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-24-senat-66-1.u165	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 19 minutes 21]]
