ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Daniel Milewski, Piotr Olszówka, Jarosław Szlachetka and Sylvester Tulayev. Members Daniel Milewski and Piotr Olszówka will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Daniel Milewski and Jarosław Szlachetka. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u2	The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Patients' and Parliamentary Health Organization's Rights - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Prisons - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13.30. President of the Parliamentary Group on Lydia Gądek's basic health care and prevention for the heart in the Polish Parliament invites you to carry out a cardiovascular prevention study. The tests will be carried out at hours. In the lobby of building G, in front of room 23, 1st floor. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Economics and Development together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - immediately after the end of the votes, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - immediately after the end of the votes, - Constitutional responsibility - immediately after the end of the votes, - Justice and Human Rights - immediately after the end of the votes, - Public Finance - hour. 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Infrastructure - hour 2.30 p.m., - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u3	Thank you. Mr Budek made a formal application in writing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm filing a formal motion for your marshal's announcement of a time-out. 12 and an explanation of the appalling case that took place yesterday at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. In a non-regulatory way, which is not in line with the principle of three readings, the PiS Members tabled amendments which go beyond the submission we were talking about here in this Chamber yesterday morning. You have a majority, you have the Sejm Bureau, you have a whole state apparatus to create good law. However, once again, we are sitting under pressure of time and, at the same time, the parliamentary majority is making cardinal mistakes. You have promised our partners in the European Union to reflect on what you have devastated over the last two years. Meanwhile, what you're doing with the justice system right now is killing it. You have promised reflection, and instead you propose manual control of the Supreme Court, manual control of the Constitutional Tribunal, and there is manual control of the National Judicial Council, but not by judges, but by Minister Ziobra, by people connected with the Minister of Justice. Moreover, for two years, Prime Minister Beata Szydło assured that there were no three sentences. The Constitutional Tribunal, which could publish. You are now pushing an absurd change at the same meeting: you are ordering the President of the Council of Ministers to publish something that you think is not a judgment. If this is a judgment, then there is absolutely no need for these judgments to be published, whereas the violation of the principle of three readings and the introduction of a new statutory regulation makes the entire law under investigation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be declared incompatible with the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u5	Thank you. There is a formal request for a period of time. 12. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering an adjournment until 3 p.m. 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. 151 voted against - 233, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition was raised against supplementing the agenda for the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court, prints 2389 and 2441, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. There were 226 votes against, 149 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the agenda item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 12 h 9 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question was formulated by Ryszard Bartosik, Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Paul from Law and Justice. The question on the position of the Polish Government on cohesion policy after 2020 is addressed to the Minister for Investment and Development. I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u6	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The question concerns the position of the Polish government on cohesion policy after 2020. Both our government and the Minister show that we need investment in areas such as digitalisation, innovation, infrastructure, which determines the success of the economic race. We particularly care about cohesion policy, which is the cornerstone of the development of the less developed areas of the European Union. Cohesion policy is a fundamental policy of the European Union and should remain so because it reduces the backwardness of less industrialised areas and rural areas. This is particularly important for our country, for individual voivodships, for regions in our homeland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what are the chances for this right direction to be supported in the negotiation process and what are the key plans of the Ministry of Development at national level, the EU in the above mentioned. context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u7	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! An important objective of cohesion policy is European territorial cooperation, which aims to strengthen cross-border cooperation through joint local and regional initiatives. It involves joint or similar actions, e.g. investment, sports or cultural, conducted between border regions of neighbouring countries. These actions are very well received both by local authorities and by locals, to whom this support was received. That's why I have a question: Is the government going to apply? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for measures for further cross-border cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u9	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The future EU budget should ensure the stable social, economic and territorial development of the European Union as a whole and must therefore have the necessary resources to address these traditional challenges and these new challenges and the Community objectives that we need to meet after 2020. It should be designed to ensure that these key issues are resolved from the perspective of the citizens of the European Union. This, of course, applies to many areas, which is why, in our opinion, the Polish government believes that cohesion policy should be maintained as a priority for the European Union. This scope should be wide and countries and regions should be able to adapt their public intervention to the deficits they have identified. From the point of view of Poland it will be another period of catching up on infrastructure delays. Priority will be given to the tasks of innovation in the economy and the creation of the basis for the 4.0 economy. Poland also intends to invest in clean air, clean energy, low energy intensity and resource consumption, as well as protection against the effects of climate change. We consider the issues of the labour market, adaptability, health, social inclusion, the fight against poverty and education to be extremely important social tasks. As part of our country's development needs in the strategy of responsible development, which is the basis for Poland's development directions, we have identified areas in the field of digitization, innovation and infrastructure, which are the priorities of the Ministry in the coming years. And so, in terms of increasing the innovation of the Polish economy, we plan to focus on: above all, support for the creation of innovation at every stage, including at the most risky stage of research and development, at the stage of the implementation of R &amp; D projects, at the stage of the presence of Polish products on global markets, the protection of intellectual property, technology transfer, development of networks of cooperation between companies, as well as scientific and business cooperation, and building such a potential for the absorption of knowledge in companies that will increase their level; support the development of innovative services; support for R &amp; D infrastructure; funding for Polish companies in the digital transformation of industry and transition to a circular economy model. As regards the construction of the digital economy, we plan in particular to support the development of telecommunications infrastructure, the 5G Internet as the basis for the operation of businesses and citizens in the Digital Single Market. We would like to strengthen the processes of providing data from the public sector and science collections to the economy in the context of big data, big data areas, as well as increasing efforts to boost demand for these services and cooperation in the construction and use of software created by multidisciplinary teams of analysts. We would like to increase the supply of investment for information and communication technologies in companies where we want the digital sector to be advanced and relevant and in the digital supply chain, and in the enhanced on-line trading panel of services and production. We want to develop digital e-government services and to interest entrepreneurs more in processes that protect management and cybersecurity of administrative systems. Finally, in terms of infrastructure alongside the construction of a high-quality core transport network, we will pay particular attention to solutions promoting clean air - this is, of course, primarily about public transport, the use of alternative means of powering this communication, as well as collective integration: common tickets, information systems, connecting nodes; clean energy - it is about preference for solutions that ensure maximum availability and which reflect local needs in terms of waste management and the use of local potential, promoting behaviour that favours the rational use of energy by end-users through the continuation of advisory support, also targeted at small operators, the housing sector, strengthening RES infrastructure to make greater use of green energy in Poland; clean water understood as access to a sufficient amount of good quality water, which is a condition for development; protection against flooding and drought - flood prevention infrastructure - complementary to investment for the development of inland waterways. These guidelines will be raised by Poland in the framework of the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework, i.e. already in May this year we will put these demands on the agenda of the common policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the area of cohesion policy beyond 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u11	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister, because I believe that this issue needs to be raised to a high level in these negotiations with the Union. The slogan for innovation is still emerging, but small, medium and micro enterprises do not need innovation to the full. They need to go through a certain stage of their development, i.e. they are small businesses, micro-enterprises, and they need to move to a small phase of a small company, a medium-sized company and later already such companies, which operate generally, on a national scale, and even enters foreign markets. In my opinion, in these negotiations it is important to stress that these small entrepreneurs mainly need investment money, e.g. to replace the machinery park, to build a new hall, as I say, to move from the lower stage of development to the higher level. Then this policy will indeed benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. Please answer: What is the government planning to do in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u13	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, small and medium-sized enterprises are the main concern of the government in the field of cohesion policy. These instruments, which today are used in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, we want to maintain, and we also want to strengthen them by means of additional instruments for example. returnable measures which could be used much more to implement cohesion policy. This is an absolute priority for our government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u15	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question has been formulated by Mr Anna Czech and Barbara Bartus of Law and Justice on the growing human resources problems in healthcare - the question addressed to the Minister for Health. I would ask you to ask Anna Czech for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Minister! It is precisely in the tone of this question - it is about the difficulties that are at the moment, and in the future it is likely that they will not resolve themselves. Therefore, questions arise: Is it considered to make the requirements for the number of doctors who are to secure a given scope of benefits more flexible? In particular, this relates to the deficit ranges. And second question: Will the Ministry want to analyse the regulation of certifications that allow certain medical procedures to be carried out? Until now, these certificates have been awarded by medical associations, often for payment. I think that the medical community would welcome some general regulation from the Ministry, which would allow doctors - of course it is about getting certain skills - to perform medical procedures. And now a few examples about the number of doctors. For example, when it comes to the deficit speciality of child psychiatry, such requirements are laid down, for example. There must be one doctor employed for 32 beds. Could it not be increased e.g. 40 beds? Couldn't you also consider a combination of functions if your doctor is working in a hospital and there's a clinic here? It is a question of making employment more flexible both in one place and in another. That would also increase human resources. I mean, if it's like... Radiotherapy, also an important specialty, is in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of Health on benefits guaranteed in the implementation of basic standards 2 and 3D - radical and palliative standards - the need for equivalent [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three jobs... Just one more second, Marshal. ...and at a time when larger, more specialised procedures are being carried out, it suddenly increases to six conversion posts. In fact, only equipment is a requirement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u17	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u19	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, As regards the question, and in particular those examples of flexibility and problems which arise from some kind of dilemma, which has a managing person or, say, a person who has supervision of the health care system, this dilemma rests on the shoulders of the Minister of Health. We need to resolve the quality level. So far, this level of quality is the qualification of doctors and the number of doctors serving a specific specialty, as well as certain conditions regarding the standard of care, in the form of specific equipment, specific surfaces, etc., it is also the number that we have. The insurance system that we have funded and its verification, through the introduction of the NFZ and, in particular, the service charges, require the decision-maker to supervise the quality of the services provided, and so I understand that this quality, so to say, bet at a sufficiently high level or the highest possible level, such standards arise - the aim is to safeguard certain quality values. Is this good, or is this bad? With the current shortage of medical personnel, I believe that we need to modify first of all the problem of setting these standards, and I think it's time to return to this system, which... generally recall the system in force in the Western countries, where the doctor is most professionally prepared - a doctor by a large And that's where the work is going right now. This is one of the safety components against staff shortages, especially medical ones. But I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to answer the question about what we are planning in the coming years, what we are planning and what we have done de facto in terms of increasing the number of doctors who graduate from medical school. Because if we look at the years 2016 and 2018, the increased number of admissions for medical, medical, dental doctors is... From 3200 graduates in 2016 this has now increased to 4500 and has gradually increased. The increase in admissions for medical studies results, among others. because we observe, first of all, excessive burden on doctors, especially in hospitals, by setting different kinds of standards. We also observe the desire to leave, although it is slowly weakening, but we also observe the epidemiological-demographic changes. We need more people to take care of us in the years to come. As for flexibility, we're working, so to speak, on a multi-track basis. One element is for sure the development of standards of care for the basket of guaranteed benefits. The example that you have given about child psychiatry - indeed, we have about 400 psychiatrists with a specialty of child psychiatry. I do not know if increasing the number of beds supported by child psychiatry will result in the change that is expected. I don't think so. We have a slightly different idea, and I think there'll be time to present this idea, but it's the fact that 100 of these 400 work in Mazowsze. This is a re-allocation of human resources that is probably also due to the financial model, which still, so to speak, repents. We count very much on the operation of this basic guarantee of hospital benefits in various specialties. I think that once the basic needs of patients have been established for closed treatment and for the development of outpatient specialist care, because this is the long-term focus of the programme, and with the strengthening of POZ most security problems will be reduced. On the other hand, it will remain an element of highly specialised medical care and then the qualifications of doctors will probably be much more needed and better paid. I've been trying to answer some of those connected questions, as I could. If there's anything to add, I'll do as much as I can.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u21	Thank you very much. And I ask for an additional question from Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of staff problems, about any flexibility, speaking about the audit of requirements imposed on future doctors or doctors, we are thinking above all about ensuring the safety of patients, and all our questions are focused mainly on this, but I also wanted to ask you, at what stage are the preparations for admission to work in Poland of young Poles who completed their studies outside Poland, and even more importantly, outside the European Union. Today, this procedure takes about a year, and sometimes even more than a year. Given that we need doctors and we want young Poles to stay and work in Poland, how does the Ministry approach this topic?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u23	Thank you. And here you are, Minister Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u24	Our expectations are in line with what you said. Absolutely, especially if they are Polish citizens or with the Polish Charter or in any other way... We're just trying to make this possible. However, there are several differences, because we treat medical professions related to the provision of medical services and, otherwise, nursing services. This is particularly true for those non-EU countries from the East, where the Polish population is still large. As far as the medical component is concerned, there must indeed be such a long way to verify competence. Even looking at that verification that... I personally know some examples, that education is not always at the same level as we have in Poland and we would like our doctors to represent. And it's probably not gonna change much. Perhaps we can remove... We want to remove bureaucratic burdens, but the doctors' chambers will certainly be a leading element. We will certainly increase the scope of the CMKP's operation in order to relieve the Ministry of Science in turn of the issue of nostrilisation, which is to say that we want to minimise bureaucratic elements in order to define, as soon as possible, those competences that relate to the doctor's contact with the patient. Another problem is nurses and midwives, because in Poland it is a professional group with a higher education. In countries east of us it is still secondary education and in many cases these competences are simply so divergent that it is likely that the period of internship or, say, the residence of nurses and midwives will be longer. Together in the government, we are working to make it possible to make the hospital's employment more flexible and take care of it and under the responsibility of the director of the hospital or the hospital's board of directors, i.e. the work of that person, simply to facilitate the acquisition of practical competence and to assess whether these qualifications are appropriate for the individual concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question put by Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska and Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska from the Civic Platform. The question about the fate of the Czartoryski Foundation and the amount of PLN 500 million received by this foundation is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I ask Mrs Iwona Śledzinska-Katarasinska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! In December 2016, you made a very controversial decision about a particular redemption, redemption - I do not know what to call it - from the Chartory collection foundation, which is undoubtedly very valuable and contains, among others. A lady with a group, but not only, and is definitely worth all the money. The problem is that in the public consciousness - and rightly - the collection was still owned by the Polish people. True, it was handed over to the Czartoryski Foundations, as there were some historical events, but all legal guarantees were in force here that would neither allow it to be exported, nor sold, nor divided, nor had it at all available. Perhaps it was the honor of the house, the devotion to justice, the fact that it was the Czartorys who gathered this collection. To perform this operation, you changed the statute and the board that didn't agree to this proposal. In secret, the budget has been revised before the Sejm committees, 500 million zlotys have been redirected, which you gave to the Foundation in Wiana. It would still be as such if we had not learned this year that the foundation is going to disappear and that the money was transferred to Liechtenstein into an account closer to an unknown foundation, or to foundations also unknown, but in the hands of new members of the board, among others. Mr. Maciej Radziwilla. So I'm asking... You responded to my interview in January 2017, and you thought everything was okay. I have one fundamental question: do you really think everything is okay? Because I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Over the years of this controversial, as you said, actions have been attempted by my predecessors. You say you don't know what to call this deal. I will give you a detailed description of this, all the documents are available, and you have received them too, Commissioner. The case was also examined by the Supreme Audit Chamber. You were right to say that this collection is worth all the money. You said you changed the statute and the board. Madam President, I find it awkward to explain this, but the Minister of Culture, the Deputy Prime Minister, has nothing to do with the statute or the board of a private foundation. Not 500 million zlotys were transferred, including VAT 447 million zlotys. However, it is worth being precise when talking about public funds. But let's start with this: For many years the environment of Polish museums, historians and art conservationists has been unsuccessfully appealing to the subsequent governments of Poland for a buy-out to the Treasury of the collection of the Czartoryski princes and related properties. These proposals were based on awareness, and here I agree with the Member, the great value of the collections and the risks associated with them - I stress - with a private status. Knowing that this is the only way to secure this one of the most valuable and famous art collections in Europe and the world from the risk of decay, destruction, sales and exports, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage has met these expectations. Finally, after many years we met these expectations when on behalf of the State Treasury on 29 December 2016 we purchased collections of the Museum and the Library of Princes of Chartory containing 86 thousand. museum objects, 250,000. library facilities for EUR 100 million. The transaction also included claims of the Chartory Princes' Foundation against cultural goods that were lost during World War II, I remind you, among others. to the famous Portrait of the young man. Rafael Santi from Urbino, or were taken over as a result of post-war nationalization. It all contained our transaction. It was also about the historic palace-park complex in Sieniawa. There's a court case going on right now, and we're about to have to hand over Sieniawa to the Czartoryski family. Now we have security. This is our Polish, Polish nation, the Polish Treasury. In addition, a contract was also concluded to transfer ownership of all properties located in the Museum and the Czartoryski Princes' Library to the National Museum in Krakow. All this, as you know, has already been handed over to the National Museum in Krakow. Let me remind you that for almost 10 years the collection has not been shown. During the permanent renovation of these buildings, which was still promising for many years. The private foundation did all this with public money. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] And it was a bottomless bag. That should be emphasised. Contrary to false information in public space, the contracts concluded also protected the Treasury from any claims of the heirs of the family. It's all secure. The contracts also provided safeguards for those who had claims against the Czartoryski family, because these families discussed among themselves in the courts about who owns it. It's all legally secured in this transaction. The collection of Czartoryski princes, it is also worth to say clearly, has always been private property of the Czartoryski family; it can be said that in the times of the Polish People's Republic there was not, but I hope that we will not go or go in such a direction, we are not introducing some new legal or civilization order - like the one that the Communists introduced in Poland. It was always a collection owned by the Czartoryski family, and in Poland independent after 1989, in 1991 confirmed this unambiguously, whether we like it or not, the court of the Republic of Poland. She's private and private. As a result, Prince Czartoryski established a foundation to which he handed over a collection that had remained since the war in the deposit of the National Museum in Cracow, i.e. the foundation that the prince founded, was the owner of this collection. During the first years of the foundation's operation its relationship with the National Museum was quite good, it was strong to the extent that the director - the director at that time - the National Museum in Cracow was at the head of the foundation. But it began to change, and all historians, museums, also the director of Zofia Gołubiew, also the daughter of Professor Marek Rostworowski, who for years took care of the collection, was the greatest expert, thanked me for finally cutting it because this cooperation with the foundation looked, to say gently, not so well. Polish museums, the Polish art historians' community, had less and less impact on the foundation. As I said: a messed-up repair, an unshowed collection [[♪ The bell ♪]] and lack of impact, deprive of real legal protection against export or sale.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage: I'll tell you if there's time. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Margaret Kidawa-Błońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u30	Prime Minister! I just wanted to remind you that in 1991 Prince Adam Czartoryski founded this foundation and handed over the management over the Library of Princes of Czartoryski to the Polish nation. The foundation charter excluded the possibility of selling the collection, dismembering the collection, so it was already secured in the statutes, it was included that it could not be sold. However, you said here that there was a foundation, that the foundation's activities were financed by public funds just to renovate the museum, to secure the collection. You said it wasn't exactly what it was supposed to be, I mean. That there was no oversight of this foundation, of what she was doing. Now it turns out that the foundation suddenly exhausts its ability to act, that there is nothing to worry about, that there is no money. How is it possible that within six months the foundation, which had very good goals, had many tasks to carry out, as it turns out, there are no tasks to carry out [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the money's gone? How is it possible that such amounts were transferred without the knowledge or supervision of the State?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u31	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u32	I wonder if you are serious about this... [[Voice from the room: Seriously.]] ...does it refer to the popularity of populist grips: there's a foundation, there's a lot of money, so there's definitely a big deal. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Well, there is no money.]] Madam President, she is sure, at least since Roman times, the civilizational order in the countries, is private property, which even such a terrible state as the PiS state, as you call it, has no influence. The supervision of the foundation is described in Polish law, as it is described, and I cannot make decisions for the funder or for the management of the foundation. So much for that. But going back to the basics, I'm going to say that there wasn't enough security to ensure the safety of this collection, this wonderful collection. The lady was exported from Poland. The statutes were changed, the funder could change and change the statutes at any time, so that there was no guarantee. The statute of a private foundation is not a guarantee for the Polish people that this collection will not happen anything wrong, especially since the value of this collection, as you know, is according to estimates of art historians of over 10 billion PLN. We paid less than PLN 0.5 billion for this. I can tell you that lately in the art market... The transaction concerned one of Leonardo da Vinci's paintings. There are only 14 such images in the world. Ours is most likely the most beautiful, as many historians believe, more interesting than.Mona Liza. In 2017, $450 million was paid for the Salvator Mundi and Leonardo da Vinci. If someone has a grudge against the Polish government that in a transparent way here, in this Sejm, we have made a decision on amending the budget and the allocation of this amount, relatively, relatively small compared to what we have managed to secure for the Polish people for all time if someone thinks it is wrong, then I am actually losing arguments. I am 100% convinced that this is the right thing to do. As I said, immediately, the next day NIK entered the ministry, he was whacking for three months. All documents relating to transactions shall be public and shall be made available. Everything was transparent. The Museum Council of previous ministers, not by us, has unanimously supported the transaction. I understand those museums. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're wrong too. The Polish National Committee of ICOM, together with the president who participated in the signing of the transaction agreement, supported the transaction. The Management Board of the Association of Polish Plastic Artists supported the transaction. We were guided by vox populi, the opinion of Polish specialists, experts, the environment, which has been associated with the collection for years, and for centuries we have sorted out a case which unfortunately was not ordered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. We move to the next question, formulated by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Marek Sowa, Paweł Kobyliński, Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Elżbieta Stępień and Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus from Modern, on the transfer of EUR 100 million to the Le Jour Viender Foundation based in Liechtenstein by the Czartoryski Foundation and the role played by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in the purchase of the collections belonging to the Czartoryski Foundation. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, the first question will be asked by Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! We will continue on this subject. I would like to say very clearly from the outset that this is not a matter of discussion about legitimacy, because, of course, we are all glad that the harvest has been secured for all time, and this remains beyond the complete discussion, but I understand that the Deputy Minister here is about to complete the Prime Minister's statement. If there's a discussion today, it's about the backstage transactions. And it's not like the Prime Minister said here just a moment ago that the scenes were fully transparent. There was a security in the debate about amending the budget law to... This was done in great confidence, without any knowledge of this. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Commission...]] It is very bad that we have to learn about the transaction, about the scenes of transactions with the interviews of Prince Adam Karol Czartoryski for the Spanish daily, And worst of all, then he said that it wasn't a sale transaction, that it was a donation, and he was expecting money for this donation to set up a new foundation in which he would be able to carry out his tasks. After all, he could change the charter of the Czartoryski Foundations and act, and carry out the tasks so that these funds were devoted to culture in Poland. The Prime Minister said what I am pleased about is that private property is private property, which even the PiS state has no power over. Well, that's lucky, but you're telling and accusing your predecessors that the owners paid off, for example. dividends for the money invested in Poland, and the state here actually participated in the transfer of EUR 100 million. Our doubts are also raised by the question that all this was carried out without the management of the Foundation, directly by the Prime Minister of Gliński, [[♪ The bell ♪]] directly with a funder who had no legal right to do so. In addition, I will say that the minister, the brother of the Minister of Health, was involved. The questions are whether part of the money has not flown to the Radziwill family.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u35	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The Foundation of Princes of Czartoryski - it must be recalled again - is a private organization and it is for its founder and its board and board of directors to properly implement its statutory objectives. Once the purchase of the Czartoryski collection was concluded, the funds transferred to the Foundation's account became its private funds and only the Foundation was responsible for their spending. In short, if you have any doubts as to how these funds are used, transferred, distributed to other foundations, these are questions to this foundation and not to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. [[You're the government's representative.]] I suppose that some political sensitivity, the idea of Members of both the Civic and Modern Platform, is that - you treat yourselves that way or you have that view of yourselves - you are freedom fighters, and in this case you expect... [[Talk about yourself.]] ...to interfere with the decisions of the public, I don't know, give some kind of consent or suggest something about what a private foundation is going to do with its own resources. I think... [[About billions of gold...]] You didn't ask me a question, so I'm answering other questions. Please don't disturb me. [[But you don't answer about it.]] So it seems to me that here you are somehow violating your Idea identity, forcing any element of state authority to interfere with the decisions of private foundations. I believe that in general what was done in the end of 2016 will go to the history of Polish culture as a great success of the country and the Polish nation. Something that has been collected for more than 200 years and was in private hands, and this privacy of this property was confirmed by the Polish court in 1991, it was finally secured and for centuries is the property of the Polish state and nation, such an important institution of culture, which is the National Museum in Krakow. Thanks to the fact that this collection was purchased by the Polish state, information about the fact that such a collection is that there is some Leonardo da Vinci in Poland, that perhaps it is the most valuable painting of all 14 paintings that are in the world, spilled around the world. And you, as a Member from Krakow, should know this and be glad that the National Museum in Krakow has reached a million visitors by tourists. A million visitors have never arrived at the National Museum in Krakow in a year. In this case, this level has been achieved in my opinion, among others. because it spilled around the world, this information spilled because it was not widely known, because the image was not shown, the collection was not shown due to this long-term renovation. It has been found in the world that Leonardo da Vinci's painting is in Poland, in a particular museum, now it is very exposed, it is possible to contemplate it. The second reason for this great turnout in my opinion were also two great temporary exhibitions, which the National Museum in Krakow organized on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, i.e. the exhibition "Legacy" and the exhibition devoted to Wyspiański. But surely the lady with the weasel Leonardo da Vinci contributed to this too. So that I understand that you are always looking for some excuse - the opposition has the right to do so - to multiply doubts, maybe even a little annoying the government, but in this case I am convinced, I am calm about it, that to the history of Polish culture, I do not know, Polish culture management or decisions which are made in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, this decision will pass from the end of 2016. In my opinion, she has already gone into history as one of the most important, most valuable, most courageous and necessary decisions that should have been made in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u37	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u38	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer here to the interview given by Mr Czartoryski to the journal He said, "I had the sword of Damocles over my head, and they could confiscate it all to me." In the context of the fact that you said the collection was worth 10 billion and you bought it for 5% values, I'd like to ask if there's anything going on here, because either Prince Czartoryski is lying, or the Polish government, for example, because of reprivatization, on the committee, had psychological possibilities of pressure. I'd like to ask if ever during the negotiations... Is there a negotiation protocol where it says that the Polish state can confiscate this collection? And if you don't, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does that mean Prince Czartoryski is lying?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u40	Mr President, I admit that our predecessors were looking for a legal instrument to deal with this matter and secure it. It was a law on the List of Heritage Treasures, and it was strongly discussed in the government coalition at that time. Let me remind you that President Komorowski had serious doubts about this law on the Heritage Treasury List. The solution proposed there meant, however, that if it turned out that there was no hard security with regard to a specific museum object which is on this list, and the Polish state decides on it, as you called it, confiscation, then provided that it pays the real owner of the private market price for this work. So in short, if we even wanted to run this instrument, starting with the most famous image in this collection, and then if we were to run every object in this 86,000. The museums decided, one by one, that it is not secured, that it is exported, that there is a danger of sale or for example. We would simply have to pay for each individual object and then perhaps the Polish state would have to pay the 10 billion PLN in sum. Meanwhile, we have this entire collection for PLN 447 million in euro per zloty from that time. Good business? I think it's a good deal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u41	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question formulated by Members John Warrzecha, Ewa Kozanecka and Wojciech Buczak from Law and Justice. The question on the problems of financing the residence of low-income citizens in social care homes is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to ask you to ask Mr Jan Warecha a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u42	Dear Minister, The number of elderly, sick, infirm, caring people who are sent to social services homes for these reasons is increasing. There is a question of ensuring adequate funding for the stay of the charges. The vast majority of residents have lower incomes, benefits than the cost of their monthly living, which most often exceeds 3 000. zł. The difference in this amount should be covered by the immediate family, but due to difficulties in enforcing this difference - for various reasons - it is often financed by the municipal funds. For some time there has also been a problem of burial of residents who have only permanent benefits, 604 PLN, and therefore only health insurance. Our policy is to organize a funeral for a deceased citizen, but not to cover his expenses. According to some lawyers, the cost of the funeral should be borne by the social services centre at the last check-in, but the interpretation of the lawyers of these centres is different. So it is the DPS that bears the cost of the funeral of these residents, which generates additional costs. Therefore, I ask you to answer whether the Ministry recognises the need to introduce legal solutions which would allow for more effective enforcement of pension claims, not so much from local authorities as from the family, mainly from children and grandchildren of DPS residents who are earning well abroad, and not always legally, especially from those whom parents and grandparents had previously given their wealth, property, construction sites, and those who were ungrateful went away to seek a more comfortable life, thus avoiding the care of their loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy by Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Law of 13 November 2003 on the income of local self-government units was introduced on 1 January 2004. I will begin by answering the question directly to the Member about the funeral. Since the beginning of the provisions of the 2004 Social Assistance Act, the burial of a deceased person who lived in a social security home had no immediate family or no immediate family, belonged to a social assistance home, not to social services centres, especially since the social assistance house also receives a funeral allowance from the Social Insurance Institution to cover funeral expenses. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the financing of social services homes. By the end of 2003, the residence at the social assistance home was financed by the county, which received a grant from the state budget. On the other hand, funding rules have changed since 2004. At the same time, the participation of municipalities with the obligation to finance the resident of the social assistance home has increased if the family does not do so. The share of the municipality in income tax on individuals was at that time, in 2003, 27.6% , and after the delegation of this task, this amount is increased annually and amounted to 37.9% in 2017 So we have an increase of about 10 percentage points compared to 2003. In addition, subsidies for DPS funding were reduced by 2015 on the basis of the Local Government Income Act due to the decreasing number of residents placed there on an old basis, i.e. to social assistance homes until 2004. Thus, in practice, the grant was reduced by an average of around 3% each year, e.g. in 2013 there was a reduction to approx. 43 million PLN. Starting in 2016, the measures planned for this purpose in the voivodship budgets have increased, which means that we no longer reduce this by the percentage of the population that we lose. In 2016 they increased by almost 23 million, in 2017 by about 6.5 million. In addition, the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, as the responsibilities of the special reserve for social assistance tasks, shall, as far as possible, take action to increase the voivodeship's budgets in this chapter. Thus, in 2015 the voivod's budgets were increased by about PLN 13 million, in 2016 by about PLN 30 million and in 2017 by more than PLN 50 million. We are talking about all those residents who are placed there on an old basis, that is to say, we are talking about financing the current activities of the social services house as regards those residents who were placed there before 2004. This year we are also planning to go to the voivodships due to the demand for social services homes. On the other hand, as regards the question raised in the question concerning the levying of the property, this is an extremely sensitive matter. Why a delicate matter? Because here we have serious doubts about the constitutional compatibility, namely the principle of protection of property as set out in Article. 21 and Article 21 64. This would be a very serious interference with the owner's right to freely dispose of what the Civil Code says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u45	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Ewa Kozanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u46	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for this reply, but I would also like to ask if it would be appropriate to introduce such legislation, so that, in the absence of the possibility of payment, the costs of staying at the social assistance home of people obliged to the municipality would have the opportunity to dispose of, manage the pensioner's assets. And second question: Isn't it worth considering increasing the possibility for the municipality or another institution to verify the validity of further residence in a social assistance home when the conditions and health of the resident allow for a return to their environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u47	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Elizabeth Bojanowska to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have pointed out, we have serious doubts about the compatibility with the Constitution here, because the collection of fees from bank accounts, the valuation of the value of the assets and the obligation to sell this property would require very precise and very detailed legal arrangements. However, the constitutional admissibility of the restriction of ownership only by law and only to the extent that it does not infringe the substance of the property right would require very thorough and unambiguous regulation. That's why we're not going in that direction so far. On the other hand, to answer the second question, I would like to say that the person who is addressed to the welfare home does not have to stay in it for the rest of his life. Decisions are issued indefinitely, but always in a situation where, as the Member has pointed out, for example. the health situation is improving, it can always, at any time, return to its own habitat. There's no law that says she has to stay in this social services house for the rest of her life. The reality is, however, that today there are people with a very limited degree of efficiency in social assistance homes who are often ill, who are not at their best to anticipate their return to the environment. Rather, it follows that these people are not returning to the environment, not from legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u49	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question put by Monika Wielichowska and Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Civic Platform. The question is about grants from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education for the Association - Economics Science Society and other entities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I was counting on the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jarosław Gowin, because I wanted to ask about the convoy of shame, which is quite well, not only when it comes to the left prizes. However, the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, lacked courage. He chickened out and sent an official to answer our questions today. But okay, we'll try to handle it. High Izbo! The money from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education competition for the implementation of cooperation with seniors from universities of the third century did not reach the University of Świętokrzyski University of Technology, the Higher School of Business and Entrepreneurship in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, the branch of Jan Kochanowski University in Piotrków Trybunalski. Let me remind you here that these universities applied for grants and run universities in the third century. However, 0.5 million from the Ministry of Gowina received two associations directly and indirectly linked to the Gowin Agreement. 237,000. the zloty went to the association "SENS" which was founded 18 days before the competition and which is led by the assistant of Mr Michał Cieślak, and on his board there is an employee of the same Member. 312,000. It went to the Teachers and Educators Association in Kielce led by former employee Ms Renata Janik, today Minister Gowin's advisor, who is sitting, like Mr Michał Cieślak, on the party board of the Agreement, whose leader is, I will remind you, Jarosław Gowin. Wonderful? I think so. Both associations did not meet the competition requirements for experience. Today, I would ask your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Gowin, if this is political corruption, but, as I mentioned at the outset, he chickened out and sent an official to answer our questions. So let me ask you again, Minister, is the convoy of shame moving on? Is that what standards are supposed to look like in public life? After a media storm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The association announced that the grant would be reimbursed. It doesn't close. We filed an interpellation and filed a notice with the Supreme Auditorium. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u51	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Sebastian Skuza.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016, the Council The Ministry of Science and Higher Education has started implementing the third pillar of the strategy. Learning programmes for non-standard recipients, i.e. children, non-academic youth, and the elderly, have been launched. Here you can mention programs such as the University of Science, the University of Young Explorer and the University Support of the Third Century. Until then, such institutions have not been supported by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, which is why the Ministry of Science and Higher Education has decided to institutionally and systematically strengthen such an important initiative for society. The aim of the third-century university programme is to promote social and intellectual activation of seniors and to prevent their social exclusion. The first edition of the 3rd-century university programme selected 16 regional operators whose offer reached 103 third-century universities and more than 5,000. Seniors. In 2017, a total of 3999 000 were spent on financing contracts for the first edition of the programme. zł. In the 4th quarter of 2017, the Council adopted Regulation The Ministry of Science and Higher Education announced the second edition of the programme and in 2018 the amount of funding allocated to the third-century university programme amounts to PLN 6 million. 52 applications were received by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, from which 49 applications were submitted for the substantive evaluation. The substantive evaluation was carried out by a team appointed by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, but the team consisted of persons outside the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, not employees of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The second edition of the competition will benefit 148 universities of the third century and at least 7400 seniors. In February this year, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education published a list of entities that were covered by the grant, together with a score and a ranking list. In the contest you could score up to 100 points. That cut-off level was 71 points. The conclusions with this value of points and higher were eligible for funding. At the same time, as I said, the results of the competition were posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance. I draw attention to the provisions of the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. 3 The Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science, namely: applications, reviews, contracts and reports on the performance of tasks financed by science are the secret of companies within the meaning of the anti-counterfeiting rules. Data on reviewers and experts evaluating applications for learning funding for the tasks referred to in Article in a given procedure. 5 shall not be made available. As regards questions about formal, substantive requirements and the participation of persons in the applicants, I think that questions about issues related to party membership and the functions performed by those persons in the parties should be addressed to the parties' bodies of the Agreement. As regards the substantive and formal conditions, it was not a formal condition that the entity had to have had at least 2 years of experience. It wasn't a formal requirement. On the other hand, the applicants had to include information on the experience of those who will be involved in the implementation of these proposals in what they plan to do for seniors. [[Minister, 18 days there was an Association and it got...]] As I said, the assessment was subject to the proposal and the point criterion concerned two things simultaneously, namely the assessment of the entity and the experience of those involved in the implementation of this project... [[Political.]] ...i.e. it was a cumulative criterion based on the assessment of individuals and the entity. [[Political.]] I absolutely can't share that position here. And the association of "Sens" received 83.5 points, placing on the spot 12. With regard to the question of ethics and reimbursement, I kindly inform you that the agreement with the association was not concluded, so the measures were not transferred and the association sent a declaration of withdrawal from the project. [[That doesn't close the case.]] As far as the issue of the importance of the third pillar, namely the social responsibility of science, is concerned, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the National Centre for Research and Development will announce a project for universities, which will also include non-standard recipients, such as children and young people, in the next two weeks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-academic and senior citizens, for the amount of PLN 200 million. Thank you very much. [[Immoral and unethical, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Wielichowska as if she could not shout. Now I ask for an additional question from Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, we all know how important universities of the third century are. You published the principles of your programme in the Polish Monitor in the Communication of 17 October 2017. And in that communication you wrote that the beneficiaries could be first scientific units, second universities and only third science actors. Meanwhile, you were the first to grant money to those who have the least experience, or actually have no experience at all. An association that received a number in the KRS 18 days before the competition was announced, you gave money, and you did not give it to those universities that have been working for third-century universities and universities of the third-century are located there for the past 10 to 20 years, and that is where the students of the U.T.A. are educated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is the question: If it was so good, Minister, why did this association give the money back or didn't accept it at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u55	Thank you, Member. And I ask Minister Sebastian Skuza to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the subject matter and prices, the entities that may apply for it were listed in the competition. It was a list of three groups and there was no score, there was no question of where they were mentioned, whether it was the first point or the second point or the third point. Whether it's the scientific units, whether it's the universities, whether it's the organizations that are included in the statute as the purpose of the dissemination of science, they're all treated as entities that can apply for it. The substantive assessment was carried out, as I said, by an independent team, and the experience of the people involved in the implementation of the project and the entities themselves was a cumulative criterion and this was one of several criteria for the assessment of such entities. Thank you very much. [[You can't defend that, Minister.]] [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Why didn't they take the money?]] I'll tell you what. The Association of Senss has sent a statement that, in connection with issues - how to say it - media... [[Like what?]] ...resigns from such an agreement. They have such a right, we always include such a clause in the decision granting some funds, that if we do not have an agreement within a number of days, it means that we do not conclude it, that we do not have the programme. Before concluding the contract, the association sent a letter saying that it was not implementing the programme. Thank you. [[It confirmed the corruption... the convoy of shame goes on.]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. We move to the next question, the question put by Bogdan Rzońca, Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz and Andrzej Matusiewicz from Law and Justice, on the exploration of oil and natural gas in Podkarpacie. That's a question for the Minister of Energy. I would ask you to ask Mr Bogdan Rozniec, a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u58	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to point out at the very beginning that I am asking about Podkarpat, because Podkarpat is just a cradle of the oil and gas industry, which was tried historically by making very important decisions in the years of the government of PO-PSL and saying that such a cradle was another place. It's just not true, and I want to start with that. And I would also like to point out that we speak very little about the gas and oil industry, about the great figure of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the creator of the oil industry, to which we should devote more time and which we should show for the century the independence of the Polish state as one of the characters that should be more recognizable in the world. On the merits of the case, I would like to ask the Minister for information on the state of play of the preparatory work or the work currently being carried out in relation to the exploration of gas and oil in Podkarpacie, as this is very important in the context of the need to regenerate the oil and gas industry. As I have already mentioned, in the past years, when PO and PSL ruled, we have seen the enormous devastation of this industry in Podkarpacie, huge omissions in geological research. Practically engineers were fleeing companies, moving the company out of Podkarpacie, such as Exalo from Jasła. So I would like to ask - I know there are very positive signals in this matter, but I ask for such specific information - what will happen or what is already happening in this gas and oil exploration area just within the Podkarpacie region. Thank you very much for the time being, and then there will be a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u59	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr. Michael Kurtyka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. It is really at the heart of our actions and how we perceive energy security. I would like to thank you for the question related to Podkarpacie, because this region is indeed a key region for ensuring the energy security of Poland. Let me remind you that extraction from deposits in this region accounts for up to 36% the annual national extraction of natural gas. In Poland in 2017, the total production was about 4 billion m3, and what came to us from Podkarpacie is 1.4 billion m3, and an additional 5% annual domestic oil extraction, or around 40,000. tonnes of oil. At the same time, we are aware of a very large difference in how we are able to meet our needs in terms of gas and in terms of oil, in terms of domestic extraction. The Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry Company in the south of Poland uses 136 oil and natural gas deposits and uses 2 000. wells. It is searching for new deposits, primarily with the aim of maintaining and increasing the production of hydrocarbons from the region in question, which, as I mentioned, is, of course, aimed at increasing the energy security of the State. We are aware that there is no safer source of gas than domestic extraction, and the company is constantly taking action to intensify extraction from indigenous deposits and to accelerate the process of developing already recognized deposits. Indeed, in the last few years the burden of searching has shifted clearly into the region of southern Poland. Indeed, the engineers and geologists mentioned by your Member who are working intensively in the region at this point see the greatest opportunities for development and discovery of new deposits. New knowledge, but also new technologies, are being submitted to a number of exploration projects in the Carpathians and the Pre-Góra to discover new gas resources in the coming years. As regards the Podkarpackie voivodship, the company has 22 concessions for exploration and exploration of hydrocarbons with a total area of 14 300 km2. On seven of them, PGNiG works together with Orlen Upstream, i.e. Bieszczady project, and in the framework of the operational work, seismic photographs have been taken together, search holes have been drilled, deposit tests have been carried out. A further three search holes and additional 2D seismic works were planned for the years 2018 and 2019. These search licenses of PGNiG and Orlen Upstream occupy almost 60% of the area of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. In recent years, 4 billion m3 of gas has been documented, and the use of these new technologies has also allowed the discovery of unconventional deposits of Siedleczek, Kramarzówka, Chodakówka or Sądziszów. These deposits are already in the investment phase, and some of them started mining, which is happening e.g. On Siedleczek's deposit. In the very area of the activities of the PGNiG branch in Sanoku in 2016, 16 new holes were drilled and all were positive. In 2017, 22 bore holes 16 were positive. For the following years, we expect further increase of this effort in the field of drilling in Podkarpackie voivodship and in the Sanocki area, where further 24 openings are planned for the period 2019-2020, and in total in the 3-year plan PGNiG provides for drilling of about 80 holes in the south of Poland. 3D seismic works are carried out on an area of about 400 km2 and 2D seismic works on an area of about 160 km2, which will allow further extensification and design of new drillings in subsequent years. As far as this period is concerned, i.e. 2018,2020, PGNiG will allocate about PLN 1.8 billion for the implementation of exploration and exploration works in the southern part of Poland, the development of new deposits, as well as the expansion of mining and modernisation of production infrastructure. Thanks to the use of new research and drilling methods, for example, a new gas horizon in the Przemyśl deposit was discovered, until recently considered as a deposit in the end stage. It seemed that 64 billion m3 of gas extracted from a pool with identified resources 72 billion m3 was already exhausting as if this swimming pool, while on the basis of new seismic and deposit research it was estimated that the potential of the Przemyśl deposit could be increased by up to 20 billion m3. Let me remind you that domestic consumption in Poland, based on national extraction, is about 4 billion m3, so this 20 billion m3 is a really significant step forward. The company is planning further drillings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will allow to verify the potential of resources. This is a great success, thanks to which further exploitation of the deposit will be possible, including an increase in natural gas extraction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u61	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Bogdan Rzonca.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u62	Thank you very much for this extremely valuable, important and very comforting information for us, because we have observed during the last 8 years of the PO-PSL governments drastic situations, I would even say that dramatic, related to the closure of the oil industry in Podkarpacie. Now it's reborn. Thank you so much for that. I also give thanks to the Minister, President Wozniak of PGNiG, because this is probably his main role in this matter. There's something else I'd like to ask you. I don't expect such a specific answer here. Namely we have in Podkarpacie a whole number of deposits to so-called. revitalization, old deposits. There was some resources at PGNiG for this purpose, there was supposed to be a company, something was going on, I don't think it was happening. So they ask me, let's say, an expert on the subject, if we could get back to the subject. I'm talking about intensifying with these old deposits. I would also like to say that after bringing out a few thousand, a few hundred people, maybe thousands even from Podkarpacie, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Engineers, there are deserts. That's why I have a question. It's not your decision either, but if you found out and then answered me in writing if you could put it in these deserts, for example. in Jasl, after Exalo led out of Jasła, the center of geology and exploitation in the south of Poland, because there is a lot of work there, they could have their jobs there... It would be economical from the point of view of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u63	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u64	Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister Michael Kurtyka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u66	Thank you so much for that question. The activities carried out at this moment by our companies, above all PGNiG and Orlen Upstream, show that this exploration and extraction activity in the Podkarpackie region carried out in an intensive manner during this period allows to increase drilling levels in the country and also allows to discover or reach new resources in places that had so far appeared to be exploited. Here, for example, can be an example. Przemyślem deposit. It seems that we should move towards both new research methods, seismic ones and new drillings to reach those deposits that have been left out to this day. These are often deposits in layers that lie deeper than previous discoveries, i.e. Over 2000 m, 3000 m. Unfortunately, we have a limited amount of quality seismic research here. The few deep search holes that have been made so far are not enough to have a full picture of the situation, but we believe that these actions will identify new resources. I would like to emphasise once again that it is the national extraction that the government considers as a strategic element of our energy security, and we will certainly be directing all efforts to ensure that the extraction in this region is as high as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 39 hours 10 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 14 of the agenda. We move on to a question prepared by Members Stanisław Gawłowski and Leszek Ruszczyk from the Civic Platform. The question about the National Water Farm of Poland is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. I ask you to ask Mr Leszek Ruszczyk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Media information on the newly created The National Water Farm of Poland is even alarming. The Polish waters are already operating for the fourth month, the institution employs 5.5 thousand. employees in 11 regional branches, which do not coincide with the map of voivodships, but are designated according to the hydrological map of the country. From the very beginning, employees complained about the poor preparation of the office for daily work. According to information from trade unions, there is chaos and uncertainty in the institution. There is a shortage of equipment, payment of wages for employees is delayed, there is not even a signed contract for the dispatch of official correspondence. There is a real threat to the proper operation of hydrological facilities and inland waterway transport. The spring season of intensive shipping is coming up, and water roads such as the Gliwice Canal, Elbląski Canal, Odra, Brda, built with water grades, require the service of Polish Water workers. It is also necessary to mark sailing routes. As spring comes, there is also a real threat of flooding and flooding. These and other important tasks for the Polish economy should be carried out in a professional and timely manner by the State Water Farm of Poland. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following questions: Is such a functioning institution a proper guarantee of the water safety of the country? Who is responsible for the situation? What are the measures taken by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in the area of supervision of the proper functioning of the State Water Farm of Poland? At what time will irregularities be removed that prevent the new institution from functioning properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u69	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation by Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The immediate cause of the reform of water management was the urgent obligation to implement the provisions of the Water Framework Directive, which establishes a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. The implementation of the reform was a condition that Poland had to fulfil in order to benefit from the European Union's operational programmes for the period 2014-2020. By the way, it is worth saying that with the adoption of the Water Law we are already delayed, we have been delayed for a very long time. I would like to point out that we would be much further with investments and with the operation of the new Polish Water Company, if this were done properly, calmly, during the 2007-2015 term. Issues related to the operation of the government administration water management since January this year have been excluded from the Ministry of the Environment and incorporated into the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which is a fundamental change in competence in the management of water resources, including the management of the two largest Polish rivers, the Vistula River and the Oder River, also in the context of the flood threat, which has just been asked by the Member, which I will return to. Many activities in the field of water management require the possession of water regulations granted by the Polish Waters. They define the rights and obligations of water users and the extent to which they are used. In the issue of water law permits, Polish waters replaced marshals and elders, which allowed to focus in one hand, in one institution the flow of documents and shortens time, despite perhaps some alarming individual signals, making decisions, and these decisions are necessary to carry out large investments. This change makes the procedures more consistent. This institution has a real competence in the field of water management, which was previously dispersed, not only that after various local government units, it also in the government administration, which is necessarily responsible for the flood safety of citizens. Another important change is the granting of ownership rights to Polish Waters vis-à-vis public waters, which are the property of the State Treasury. However, this does not apply to the territorial sea, inland waterways and inland waterways of particular transport importance. Improvements have also emerged in the area of water maintenance and flood management in accordance with the principle: river and shafts in one hand. So far, we've had a pretty big problem with it all over the country. From this point on, I would like to reassure you that there is no human problem with the cast of hydrotechnical, hydrological equipment in the country. The locks, the jazz, the water grades, the dams are all the time, as they have so far, filled by the workers. It is not that this institution was founded 4 months ago, because earlier we had the National Water Management Board and regional water management boards. Of course, the structure has changed, as you said, but this is only because, according to your demands, the social and self-government side, to decentralise and do more regional water management boards. We now have 11 of them, water catchment management and water surveillance in most counties in Poland. The Polish waters also serve as a regulatory body within the meaning of the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge. Until December last year, i.e. until the entry into force of the amendment to the Act on collective water supply and collective waste water disposal, the municipality has repeatedly served as the owner of the company, the supervisory authority of the company and the representative of the recipient of services, which has often led to a conflict of interest and which has been highlighted by various inspections of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Now such a regulator is the State Water Farm of Poland. And we already have the first results of a forecast of lower tariffs for water management and water consumption for residents. If we deal with all these tariffs, we have to think about where there were so high water charges in many local governments. Not everything can be explained by investments that were often made from EU funds, but this is the subject for another meeting. The Polish waters are obliged to draw up, agree, update and make available many strategic planning documents, in particular draft river basin management plans, flood risk management plans, drought prevention plans, as has been said so far, water maintenance plans, preliminary flood risk assessment, flood risk and risk maps. However, investment is a priority for Polish Waters, which affects the protection of residents from flooding and drought. In the 2016-2021 planning cycle, the country-wide flood risk management plans will cost more than PLN 11.5 billion, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be released by the entry into force of the Water Law, which is still very late introduced. It's a shame we had to deal with it quickly, but I hope everything's gonna be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u71	Thank you, Minister. And an additional question, please, Mr Leszek Ruszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the summary of the bill. I'd ask for an answer in writing because you didn't answer my questions. I have an extra question. I mean the employees. If you don't have staff, these people will only be able to go out every day and determine if the river is flowing in the same direction as yesterday. The professionals stayed in Marshal's offices. Those who might have stayed stayed stayed. You can't make a water decision without a round seal and you don't have it. Managers also do not have executive allowances, which means that people do not really have their competence. When will this be over, Minister? It is necessary to pay a salary on time, and it is a decent salary, otherwise we will have poor workers for money, and Polish waters are not only navigability, because navigability is only one department. Submersions and floods arise in the backyards of people, in the fields of men. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, not just material losses, but more serious ones. I'd ask for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u73	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u74	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, I have the impression that I have answered the question, but of course you will receive such an answer in writing. There are no cases where there are problems with payouts. There are no delays in payments to employees of the Polish Water Company. Odra, Vistula, river basins have no party colors. I'd like to ask you very much, because if something disturbing, unexpected happens... I hope you're not counting on someone else to blame. Then no one will wonder who is guilty and why such and not another law was passed. We can secure ourselves early and prepare ourselves for various possibilities. The history of the last twenty-something years shows that this can happen. Thus, the total and 24-hour control of RZGW employees, regional or water surveillance in powiats over these devices, over the state of water signs, over flood-proof investments, for which also now there is some acceleration. Enough to say about the completed construction of the Swine Poręba tank, the water grades in Malczyce or the change of the general contractor of the Racibórz tank on the upper Oder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u75	Thank you, Minister. We move to the next question, formulated by Robert Telus, Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski and Piotr Pole from Law and Justice. The question is whether there are problems in not making payments to agricultural chambers, which may arise from the attitude of the chairman of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development calling for circumvention of the statutory obligation imposed on farmers, i.e. the financing of these chambers. This is a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Telus for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In March of this year, a letter was sent to all the municipalities in Poland - I think this letter is curiazal - by Mr Jarosław Sachajka, who is also the chairman of the agricultural committee. This scripture caused a lot of controversy, questions. A lot of the ladies called my MP's office and asked what to do about it. The letter which urges municipalities, in particular wójtów and communes' councils, to suspend the transfer of funds to the agricultural chambers until the amendment is accepted by the Polish Sejm. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's called breaking the law. It caused a lot, as I said, controversy, questions. I'd like to ask the Minister about this case. Did the Ministry send a letter to the generals that this letter, which Mr Sachaiko sent, was a bad, bad letter, that the generals should not consider this letter because it is criminal to call for violations of the law in Poland? There is one sentence in this letter that I would like to quote: I believe that the mass adoption of resolutions by the municipalities' councils will mobilize the government to submit to the Sejm a draft of legal solutions that will put farmers' representation in order by chambers. Dear Member, also the chairman of the agricultural committee, has different tools to amend the law if he believes that the law is the law that needs to be amended, [[♪ The bell ♪]] than calling for a violation of the law. Minister, the question is, has this letter been corrected?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u77	Time's up. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer, I really thank you for this question. We disbeliefly accepted the letter of 7 March, which reached us, the chairman of the Sejm's agricultural committee, Mr Jarosław Sachajka, calling even for the suspension of the transfer, the payment of funds to the agricultural chambers until the Sejm's adoption of the amendment to the law. We responded immediately, without undue delay, writing, responding, informing the agricultural chambers about the situation, first of all informing the municipalities about the fact and possible consequences if the law is not respected. We have asked the presidents of the municipalities' councils and voivodships to inform them that, according to all legal requirements, and we are a state of law, we are in parliament, these obligations, the resolutions made and the laws in force so far require that, within 21 days, i.e.. on the date of payment of the agricultural tax in question, those appropriations have been transferred. And that is what we have done when it comes to what it does not do. We have taken all the steps we deserve to take with regard to the information we know so that such situations do not occur. We're sorry. The agricultural government is a representative of farmers, of all farmers. We believe that only democratic procedures can cause these changes. If they do, we'll adapt to them. On the other hand, every other one - especially in the event of such unlawful action by the Member - should be regarded as a big surprise here, and that is how we take it. I think that there are no risks with regard to the implementation of payments and further implementation of the provisions of the law resulting from this. That's all there is to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u79	Please, Mr Piotr Polak, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, I confirm that many local authorities were surprised, with disbelief accepted the letter, Mr Sachajka's speech, and treated this speech as irresponsible and at least inappropriate. Mr Sachajko is an experienced parliamentarians, a very active Member, he has the title of a doctor, so I think he should know that we must keep our vows... [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] ...who says that every Member will abide by the law and...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u81	But is that a question, sir? [[Yes.]] Is that a question for the Minister, or is this some kind of political statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u82	Listen to me. Is it because each Member has the right to address to each Minister of Interpellation and Parliamentary Questions, such interpellations or questions by Mr Sachaika, precisely about the rules governing the operation of this or the payment by local authorities [[♪ The bell ♪]] contributions to the Agricultural Chambers have been received by the Minister? Because this is also important information in the context of the fact that calling for non-compliance is governed by the Penal Code by appropriate criminal articles. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Is Mr Sachaiko, not the chairman of the agricultural committee, but the Member of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u83	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Richard Zarudzki. That's enough, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u84	...has taken advantage of all other opportunities that are available in accordance with the Member's law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u85	Minister Ryszard Zarudzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the knowledge I have, it is clear that no questions or interpolations about this matter have reached us. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Couldn't you ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u87	Okay, thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, which was formulated by Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Sharama of Law and Justice. This is a question about the first year of activity of the Tourist Guarantee Fund - to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The creation of the Tourist Guarantee Fund was a factor that was intended to protect customers in the service industry from the insolvency of travel agencies. After a year of operation, the fund raised about PLN 40 million for contributions paid to it. In addition to securing potential claims from customers of travel agencies, the fund also cleanses the market from unfair operators offering tourism services, which were able to formalise themselves in a new form after the declaration of bankruptcy. The industry and its customers have been waiting for the introduction of such a mechanism for many years. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Can customers of the tourism industry decide more efficiently from this year on the use of tourist offices in relation to the activities of the Tourist Guarantee Fund? How are the cases of customers who were deceived by travel agencies before this fund was created, with particular reference to 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u89	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr.John Widera.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to inform you that the Tourist Guarantee Fund was created by the Act of 22 July 2016 amending the Act on Tourism Services and the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. It is a collateral supplement to the guarantee provided by the travel agency in the form of a bank or insurance guarantee agreement, as well as an insurance contract to customers or the receipt of payments from them to the trust account. The creation of the Tourist Guarantee Fund has increased the confidence of Polish tourists in national travel agencies, which contributed to a significant economic growth in the tourist event market in 2017. At the worst for Polish travel agencies of 2012, when insolvent announced 15 travel agencies, the amount of claims of all affected tourists amounted to more than PLN 50 million. In 2016, five travel agencies announced insolvency. Tourist claims against insolvent tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries resulting from contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the Act which established the Tourist Guarantee Fund, i.e. Before 9 September 2016, they shall not be protected by the Tourist Guarantee Fund. In 2017, two travel agencies announced insolvency, but there was no need to mobilise funds from the Tourist Guarantee Fund, as the funds from the first pillar financial collateral were sufficient. According to the quarterly information provided in January 2018 by the Insurance Guarantee Fund at the end of 2017, payments of tourism organisers and tourism intermediaries for contributions to the Tourist Guarantee Fund amounted to 44 157 thousand. zł. It should be remembered that if only one of the 20 largest Polish travel agencies were to declare insolvency before the summer season or at the beginning of the summer season, this could result in claims of injured customers reaching at least tens of millions of zlotys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u91	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier about the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u92	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. How many entities have been removed from the Central Register of Tourism Organizers and Tourists or have been banned from organising tourism since the start of the Tourist Guarantee Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u93	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Jan Widera.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u94	According to estimates obtained by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, about 80 entrepreneurs were removed from the register and subject to a 3-year ban on the activities of regulated tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u95	Thank you very much. We move to question 11, formulated by Maciej Masłowski and Wojciech Bakun from the Kukiz club15, on air quality, information and alerting levels for PM2.5, PM10, benzo (a) pyrene and NOx dust in Poland, with particular emphasis on air pollution in Mielec and Szczecin, addressed to the Minister for the Environment. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u96	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, Poland is a disgraceful leader in terms of bad air quality. The heating season in winter, of course, is affected, but there are places in Poland such as Mielec and Szczecinek, where the air is tragic all year round. The reason is, of course, dust emissions, pollution by some industrial plants. One such bet is among others. Kronospan plant, which works in Mielec and in Szczecin. Here, in order to avoid any kind of intimidation or call for correction - not intimidation - I will immediately stress that I am basing myself on the recent results of the verification of compliance with the standards presented by the Regional Environmental Inspector, which has shown that among others. higher values of sulphur dioxide, nitric oxide and carbon monoxide indicators were found on the fibre dryer emitter compared to those set out in the integrated permit issued by the Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodeship. Therefore, my next question concerns emission standards. In 2012, the Regulation of the Minister for the Environment of 24 August on the levels of certain substances in the air increased the alert level for particulate matter PM10 from 200 Sh/m3 to 300 Sh/m3. Therefore, this level of alarm is now much less frequent, the air is still poisoned, but the local government cannot take certain steps to counter it. Minister, please explain to me what the Ministry of the Environment is going to do so that people live and the environment is not poisoned by activities such as Kronospan. Does the Ministry of Environment have a concrete, timely action plan? Will you ensure that companies like Kronospan comply with emission standards without a reduced tariff, with deadlines being shifted? We as the Sejm, you as the government are the law, we are the law, and we can act in such a way that we can first lay down certain rules, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and then make sure that these rules are respected. That's why I would very much ask for specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u97	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We have a very good time, because we have a committee meeting on the national air protection programme in parallel at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. And I must say that under the hashtag, we can find the statement made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at this meeting, in which the Prime Minister emphasized that with a great consequence we will be implementing the "Clean Air" programme, a programme to improve the quality of the environment. From this point on, the Prime Minister declared in his exposé that this is a government priority, a civilization challenge in which the Ministry of Environment will certainly play an active role in areas where it can help. I would also like to thank you for your declaration of cooperation in terms of improving the environment. I, too, will be based on information and on what the law protects us with regard to what the Member has said and my experience in this area, and I will resist the information of the regional environmental inspectors and the chief environmental officer. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland there is an air quality assessment and management system that complies with the requirements of EU law. The relevant national provisions are contained in the Environmental Law and in the implementing acts of that Law. Air quality assessments in the relevant distinguished zones are carried out annually by voivodship environmental inspectors. These assessments relate to the levels of substances in the air in a given zone compared to the previous year for substances such as PM10, suspended PM2,5 dust, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, carbon, benzene, lead, cadmium, arsenic, nickel, benzo (a) pyrene and ozone, and then for each of these substances, the EVEN classify zones according to specific criteria. The results of these assessments for a given voivodship shall be communicated to the voivodship's board, which, in the event of a breach of standards, is required to develop an air protection programme. Such a program is an act of local law, is adopted by a resolution of the sejm of the voivodship. An integrated part of the air protection programme may be a short-term action plan, which is implemented in the event of a risk of exceeding not only the alert levels but also the level of information in terms of acceptable and target levels. E.g. The PM10 dust alarm level is 300 Sz/m3, the information level is 200 and the average daily limit is 50. These levels shall be set by the Minister for the Environment in agreement with the Minister for Health, by means of a regulation, in the light of the regulations adopted. Here, corrective action is aimed at alerting citizens against the threat and is already triggered in the event of a risk of exceeding the mid-day standard precisely mentioned 50. It should be noted that EU legislation provides for alert levels for the protection of health only for three substances: nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and ozone, and alert levels, in turn for plant protection reasons, for one substance: ozone, and no alert level for PM10 dust. For this substance, individual Member States individually set a level. Surely these levels, which are also advocated by NGOs, will be, are the subject of analysis. As I say, he works very actively for you... for this government's interministerial team. It is the first government to place such importance on air quality and compliance issues after 1989. With all the consequence, we will respect this right and, at the same time, in areas where it is still imperfect, we will certainly improve it. According to the 2016 air quality results, out of 40 zones in the country, air quality standards were exceeded in 35 PM10 dust zones, in 18 PM2.5 dust zones, and in 40 zones for benzo (a) pyrene and in four zones for nitrogen dioxide and in two zones for arsenic and in one zone for benzene. In the Podkarpackie voivodship, where the installation you mentioned is located, two zones were distinguished for the purpose of conducting an air quality test: the city of Rzeszów and the Podkarpacka zone. Overcoming the current air quality standards in 2016 concerned two pollutants: PM10 particulate matter and benzo (a) pyrene. As in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, the main reason for exceeding air quality standards for these pollutants was the operation of installations in the residential and communal sector during the heating period. In the case of PM10 dust, the exceedance of the standard concerned the Podkarpackie zone. In this zone there are 13 areas of exceedance for PM10 daily dust standard, the average annual concentration of benzo (a) pyrene in suspended PM10 dust exceeded the target at all measurement points. Also in the city of Szczecin, which lies in the West Pomeranian zone, there are two measuring stations located. According to information obtained from WIAŚ in Szczecin, the annual air quality assessment in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship for 2017 showed that in the area of Szczecinka exceed a certain level of the target benzo (a) pyrene, as in previous years... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sorry. There were such crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Wojciech Bakun to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u100	Minister! Taking advantage of the opportunity to ask further questions, of course in the same context, please explain why among the members of the technical working group on matters... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u101	Excuse me, sir. Gentlemen of the Platform, I invite you to the cockroaches for the party, please don't have conversations in the O.R. [[Voice from the hall: What's the party like here?]] Proceed, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u102	I'll start over. Please explain why, among the members of the Technical Working Group on: WBP BREF and the BAT Committee are representatives of foreign companies. In the West, such opinions are collected from independent experts. Therefore, I ask you to compare the Polish and German BAT conclusions in order to verify whether there are differences between these documents, and if so, Minister, I would like to know whether technologies that are excluded from the German economy are sometimes considered by Poland to be the latest and best in the world. Minister, who consulted the Ministry of Environment on the detailed arrangements introduced into Poland by EU BAT regulations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to our information it was the same head of environmental protection of Kronospan Mr Piotr Herchel and Mr Mariusz Janik from Pfleiderer, or the second largest producer of discs and competitor of Kronospan. In this situation, I would also like to ask you to examine the environment protection permit of 10 September 2015 issued by the Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Mr Władysław Ortyl. Of course, if this is possible because of the details of the questions, please answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u103	Thank you, sir. Please, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this information. We will undertake checks in this area to provide a full picture of the situation in writing. I'm sure it's about the best available technicians and these teams... When I came to the Ministry of the Environment, it turned out that we have many experts who, claiming to be experts of the Minister of the Environment, were not personally known to me, but then I was just beginning to work at the Ministry. Surely in this area of my responsibility for us the most important thing is the use of the best and most efficient technologies. It is best that they are Polish technologies. Of course, this very broad dialogue is attended by representatives of companies operating in Poland, and there is a need, because we cannot really be a closed fortress, we must use the best available techniques. But situations in which such a belief may have occurred in your opinion, that there could be some irregularities, will certainly be with the full consequence, if they have occurred or have occurred in the past, checked and explained, because it is very important for Minister Kowalczyk and the whole team with which he works, that there is transparency on the one hand, openness and dialogue, and on the other hand full transparency and information about the persons who are involved in the consultation of documents, about how they present their arguments. Experience of the years and the various situations in which we are dealing with the law-making process shows that in any situation we must prepare appropriate materials, in which we can then show... [[Water law, for example.]] ...what happened and how, whether it is in Poland or abroad, because some of these documents were simply translated abroad. And I'm sure we'll be very careful about that. As I say, it is. also a very important topic, because we want to use the best, most efficient technologies. Of course, it is also important how these technologies have been proposed and prepared. And the issue of installation in Szczecin is to me... I, of course, also get information on the recent crash in Szczecin, where the city was pollinated as a result of the crash that took place there, just like that. So certainly those entities that operate in Poland, even though they are foreign companies, must comply with the laws that apply in Poland. Surely, if there are any other elements, areas in the law that need to be improved, we will improve them so as not to allow products considered as by-products to be such by-products. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the actions taken by former Prime Minister Beata Szydło will be considered at this meeting, which has triggered on an unprecedented scale the payment of allowances to the remuneration of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, State Secretarys, Undersecretaries of State, Voivodeships and Vice-Presidents in the form of bonuses, and the reasons and circumstances for the reconstruction of the government and the reduction of the number of Vice-Ministers, together with the announcement by the Prime Minister of the transfer of Undersecretaries of State, members of the political corps, to groups of civil servants, which would enable them to raise their remuneration, which was proposed by the Poselski Modern Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I regret that there is no Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the courtroom. I was convinced... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] ...that from the heart of the heart, sincere thoughts will complete her speech three weeks ago. After all, each of us remembers a lot of the words said by the Prime Minister. One of them is the famous quote. Just don't steal, just rule honestly - as the mantra has repeated throughout the last year. A year after saying those words, they sound like a grim joke. It turned out that the person who spoke it was at the head of a group that decided to take as much as possible from public property. Instead of running honestly, monthly bonuses were paid to each other, whose annual value in 2017 exceeded PLN 1.5 million for the constitutional ministers themselves, each from Prime Minister Szydło, who herself granted herself 65 thousand, to Minister Błaszczak, who hugged 82 thousand. zł. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In addition, millions more for Vice-Ministers, Voivodeships and a whole crowd of PiS Misiewiczs sitting in political offices and other offices. This money taken from the state budget has to go back to the budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is the scale of the irregularities and the freedom to close the public pennies on many fronts, from the forced drop of companies of the State Treasury on the fanaber of the Polish National Foundation, to acceptance of the admission of PLN 100 million to the tax paradise. [[Euro.]] I am aware that this is no money compared to the money of PiS soldiers posted to companies of the Treasury or PiS propaganda today employed by the Prime Minister's firm, who, regardless of whether they pretend to be officials or businessmen, use public money from public money. Only for a few months did they earn hundreds of thousands of zlotys in Solvere's established office, and Minister Dworczyk in the program "Black and white" is very short: I don't see any problem here. It's a storm in a glass of water. Yeah, with the millions you've given yourselves, those few hundred thousand zlotys aren't really a storm. In broad daylight, in front of millions of Poles, we watch PiS-owski jump on the state. You treat Poland like a private farm. It wasn't in history that greedy for government money. Instead of serving Poland, you only care about your own private and party interests. [[Applause]] These facts clearly... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...they must have upset the public. Poles and Poles are appalled, but not alienated from the reality of PiS politicians, who also accepted the speech of former Prime Minister Beata Szydło 3 weeks ago, who shouted: this money belonged to them. I am sure that those words Polish and Polish will never forget you, and we will remind you every day so that everyone knows what you really are. It may seem that thinking about the ownership of the state and the cash register accompanied you almost daily and it is time to say it directly - after reconstruction nothing has changed. True, as it turned out, we have the largest government in Europe, with 126 Vice-Ministers, the Prime Minister announced a reduction. Several examples of reductions: Piotr Woźny, dismissed from the function of Deputy Minister responsible for the "Clean Air" programme, was appointed the next day as the representative of the Prime Minister for the "Clean Air" programme; Michał Woś, who was dismissed from the function of Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, became the representative of Minister Ziobra for the Justice Fund; Rafał Bochenek, former spokesperson of the government dismissed from the function of Deputy Minister, was appointed as representative to the organisation of the international climate conference. I am aware that this young man has a future, and he probably also has professional experience. And that's probably what decided to call him. Let me remind you that he announced the weather on Kraków TV. I'm sure the Prime Minister thought he could handle the world's climate, too. [[Applause]] I'm asking you: What's the circus for? Poles won't buy it. After taking over the government in 2015, there was supposed to be work, humility and moderation, and in return we received the greed, visible to the naked eye, the temptation to quickly enrich ourselves, and even the showy humiliation that the Prime Minister experienced during the appeal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the government by the president of the PiS, and the abbreviation PiS stands for money and stools or privileges and positions today, and one does not exclude the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u107	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. [[Voice from the room: But rank.]] [[Voice from the room: There is joy.]] [[Voice from the gym: Give me the money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to be precise in my speech, so I'll use my notes. Request for current information submitted by the Posel Club It's a modern case for three cases. I will now try to be as precise as possible about all of them. Of course, as far as this basic issue is concerned, which the honourable Member referred to in his proposal, you know all the answers in this Chamber, because the law firm of the Prime Minister explained this in response to parliamentary hearings and inquiries, to journalistic questions and requests for access to public information. So when it comes to this first topic, about the rewards for the members of the government, at this point -- I have to point this out with all the emphasis -- this is a closed topic. [[He's just opening up.]] Recently, political decisions have been taken that close the award case, and we all know that ministers and ministers of state who are Members will hand over the awards previously paid to them for charity purposes. [[And the advisors and directors, too?]] We all know the term: this is to be done by mid-May this year, which is why we do not understand the nervousness involved in the discussion at the Prime Minister's office. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also decided that members of the government will no longer receive awards. These decisions shall be precise and legible. I am absolutely convinced that all those affected by these political and substantive decisions will comply with these commitments. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, also in connection with the numerous information provided to you in response to interpellations and enquiries, and directly from this stand, to accept this as final information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning of the year, instead of doing normal work, we must once again answer the same questions at the Prime Minister's firm. [[We're very sorry.]] We respond to further interpellations and parliamentary inquiries. Let the officials start working, account for them for the results of their work, whether the economy is developing, unemployment is low, or Poles are living better. [[Give me the money.]] About the second topic... [[Give me the money.]] ...which is the subject of the application of the Modern Club - it is called. reconstruction of the government and reduction of the number of vice-ministers - this country must remember that, as President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki announced an in-depth analysis of the functioning of the government in the context of its new tasks. The result of this analysis is both a change in the structure of the Council of Ministers and a reduction in the number of Deputy Ministers. All these changes have been announced in advance and both public opinion and the High House have been informed of their implementation and reasons. [[Then you might want to inform us here.]] The third topic you are asking about is the announced transfer of Undersecretaries of State to a group of civil servants. You must know that the law amending the Civil Service Act containing such a solution has been the subject of the work of the Council of Ministers. The project was adopted by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, but it is ongoing. Discussion on detailed solutions is underway. I hope that none of you wants the Sejm to pass rules that have not been thoroughly prepared and discussed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to assure you that when the draft civil service law is adopted by the Council of Ministers, you will be informed of this. [[Voice from the courtroom: First you fired this civilian service.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept my explanations. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Shame!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u109	Thank you very much. [[You didn't say anything.]] Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? [[You didn't say anything.]] Please join the list. Okay, those people who show up here, and I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice, is the first to ask a question. Two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the debate on wages and bonuses, not very much attention is paid to the effects of the work of those who have received them. So I ask for information about the effects of Mr Grad's work, who received tens of thousands of PLN per month for his work in the company responsible for energy, and after checking it out, it turned out that not even the location was chosen. [[Voice from the room: We will reach the companies separately.]] Which government has amended the rules for the remuneration of members of the Boards of Boards of State Treasury companies so that they are dependent, inter alia. from the economic effects achieved? Finally: Is the sum of prizes or bonuses awarded to ministers for work, and above all for its effects, for 2017, when there was record-breaking low unemployment, reduction of deficit, improvement of social mood, 4 or 5 times lower than the cost of the spot with Donald Tusk singing, Hey Jude, whose production, I do not mention the cost of emission, cost almost PLN 7 million? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: a lady with a weasel for half a billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u111	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next Member, I would like to warmly welcome the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the voluntary fire brigade from the area of Krosno and Jasiel County, the winners of the competition. [[Applause]] These are representatives of 10 volunteer firefighters. I won't mention them all because we don't have much time, but we welcome everyone very warmly. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! You got 56 grand. That other salary. Don't joke with us. Prove it was a reward. [[Applause]] But you can't prove it because it wasn't a reward. It was a pathological supplementing system for the future. You guys are tripping over your own legs. Asked ministers themselves said they didn't know what they were getting for. Minister! Are you talking about answers? Where did all this start? Since my interpellation - because I revealed it on 9 February - the interpellation in which there was a delay, you postponed the deadline. Are you answering any questions? We're already checking. In January 2018, I sent you an interpellation, asked for a list of names, it was about ministers and vice-ministers, for 2016. You didn't answer. [[Shame!]] You didn't answer the Polish people, the Poles. There is no answer to what specific ministers received in 2016. [[Applause]] [[Shame!]] From another answer, I know that Minister Witek got $30,000. Are you answering? I asked about the years 2005-2007, because it turns out that there was a system at that time. Perhaps you're setting up Minister Kempa to do something about it -- that she invented it. You didn't answer how many ministers named Jarosław Kaczyński were given for that time. [[Applause]] Finally, what is the legal basis? I'm asking you five specific questions. These are questions for Minister Szrot. It's a one-time answer. On what legal basis were these second salaries paid? You write that they had nothing to do with the prizes under Art. 105 of the Labour Code. So what were the awards? It wasn't a reward, it was an unfair benefit that you should pay back. [[Applause]] [[The Treasury.]] How can you motivate someone if they don't know they're rewarded? Finally, the reward is something for the future. You guys just didn't raise each other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] salary in July 2016 and introduced a system of monthly allowances...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u114	...a system that Poles weren't supposed to find out about... [[Your Marshal...]] ...because you wanted to pay it off for two more years.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u116	And that's unworthy. [[Applause]] [[Vote from the hall: To the budget!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the information revealed, Minister Jurgiel received over 65 thousand in the Ministry of Agriculture. PLN prizes, all vice ministers received record high prizes for 2017, i.e. 51 thousand. PLN and the total amount of prizes in the Ministry of Agriculture is 5957 thousand. zł. I would like to know: For what and on what basis did the Minister and Deputy Minister receive such high prizes? Did advisors like Sebastian Łukaszewicz, the secretary of the Podlaskie PiS, or Artur Kosicki, head of the Białystok PiS structures, also receive prizes? And what did they get these awards for? Or is it because they're in the PiS party serving Mr. Jurgel? Or because they're harming the Podlasie self-government? Or did they receive rewards for effectively contributing to ASF growth in our country? Or is it because food prices are rising? Or maybe for destroying the stables with Arabian horses in the Podlaskie Voivodeship? Minister Jurgel, you should resign for so many failures suffered by your resort, and you should do so right now. We are used to having equal and equal Members in this term of the Sejm. That's what happens. But since when does private Mr Antoni Macierewicz have a limo with a driver and a bodyguard? Minister, answer the question: Why does Mr Antoni Macierewicz have a service car, a limousine with a bodyguard and a driver? Yesterday at the Sejm, he drove a car like this. I do not recall Members being given protection and a service car. Please answer: Why does Mr. Antoni Macierewicz drive this car and how much does it cost taxpayers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say, because there's not much here... a lot has been said. In addition to these awards, about which the Minister here with the right grace, as a critic of truth and honesty, was he kind to tell us, beside those awards about which the plaques or posters of disgrace, which they drive around Poland, are there any others? Like a few questions. Some of her friends have already asked here. Are there any second salaries for ministers? How much does it cost Poland - I would also like to find out - this national treasure Jarosław Kaczyński, because protection costs 1.5 million, is there any other money? How much does this hero, Napoleon Żoliborz and the greatest genius of the third and actually every Republic to which we all owe independence, how much does the Treasury cost? I wanted to know how much it cost, just for example, because it's in the media, I'm based on the media, I'm sorry if I offended anyone... I think his name is Smolka, the head of the political office, called the second Misiewicz. How much does the other Misiewicz cost the Polish state? How much does it cost Mrs Ralikowska-Avis, a national hero and a great figure, a great patriot, which Mr Duda - I don't think he knows her life story, I think, although it's hard to imagine, because Mr Duda is a character, to say the least, quite twisted - he awarded the Order of the Rebirth of Poland? The media also wrote about some awards for this lady. Would the Minister, who spoke so beautifully here, be kind enough to tell us how much she got? How long has this government... Janusz Głowacki, a dead, holy memory, used this term: sexuality. The name itself... We know what's going on. I think PiS has reached all limits. If there was an Olympics for the Dwarfs and for those raking the national budget, the PiS would get a gold medal at this Olympics. That's why I would very much ask that the Minister, who spoke wonderfully about giving up [[♪ The bell ♪]] These awards, I don't know in what mode... Who is Kaczynski that he decides and everyone quietly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u121	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u122	Are you cowardly giving away these prizes? If the Minister wanted to answer these modest questions, I would be very grateful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Many weeks of discussion have shown that everyone's decisions, which differ, partially differ from those of Poles. [[3 years.]] Everyone. A lot of information shows that you too. [[Three years you take a handful.]] On the other hand, it is important who is standing and who is reflecting and able to correct his actions. [[Voice in the hall: Give me the money.]] We decided to return the prizes. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's not a phrase.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u125	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u126	...let's see how... [[To the budget.]] ...and what do you want to return, which local governments led by the Civic Platform want to return the Bajoń prizes, which company presidents... [[But what is it?]] ...will return the prizes. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u127	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u128	That's what we're different about... [[What self-governments?]] ...that this reflection does not exist in your action. That's the difference. [[For the officials, they are.]] Many weeks the state is also trying to prove that the issue of prizes is the most important issue that concerns Poles. [[You want the cleaning lady to return it?]] But I have to tell you, no. The prizes are 5 gr per citizen. VAT Luka-owska [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's 8,000. zł. [[That's not true!]] 8,000. zł. All those who are declaring their prizes today have led to this... [[Voice from the courtroom: You've taken the liberty.]] ...that already in 2017 each Pole received 550 PLN. So much for stopping exports and reducing VAT... [[You're full of shit!]] ...for every citizen. [[Game in the O.R.]] The opposition is not a laughing booth. [[You're full of shit!]] Show that you have an idea to solve the problems of Poles, and you do not deal with Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u129	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As far as VAT and Mr Buda are concerned, he has proved that everything can really be said - on one condition: you have no idea what you are talking about. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! But above all: Prime Minister Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki! The award scandal, which you are authors and beneficiaries, showed that when you spoke in the exposé: humility and moderation, you did not mean members of your government, only Poles. On the other hand, Prime Minister Morawiecki: when he talked about escaping from the trap of average income, he was not thinking about Poles, he was thinking about colleagues from the government. [[Applause]] It's just that we didn't understand each other then, but today everything is clear. You behaved exactly like those whom Mr Buda spoke about: like tax fraudsters who are looking for a recipe to use it for aggressive optimization and earn millions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] The crooks sometimes succeed, but sometimes they fail for good luck. And you failed: because of Mr Brejza, there will be no money left, only shame will remain. [[Applause]] But, Minister, as a public servant, you know very well that every dollar from the taxpayer's money has to be issued in accordance with the law, which means there must have been some regulations, and that's what the law says about the employees of the state offices, on the basis of which you paid yourselves that left money. So I am appealing, and this is my formal request, to pass on this regulation as a supplement to this debate, because your speech was basically so... [[Voice from the room: Scandalous.]] ...I think we need to lower the veil of silence. I understand that you were ashamed, but you have to take responsibility for the actions of your government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u132	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to return to - now - Mr Macierewicz, supposedly the best Minister of Defence after 1989, who left with a bang, and yesterday showed everyone the results of his two-year work. What did he get the reward for? Or for arming Poland with new helicopters to defend our borders? Or maybe for spending 1 million zlotys painting old helmets? I would also like to ask, on the occasion, about one of the awards for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship - 42 thousand. For that, ladies and gentlemen, he has completely abandoned the subject of the storm. For what, ladies and gentlemen? Minister, you have entered the stand and it was a festival of contempt for all Members, but not just for Members... [[For the citizens.]] Exactly. But it is important to remember that these Members have been chosen. You showed them the middle finger, Minister... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...totally ignoring the substantive questions, but also the questions that concern most Poles, because if they hadn't flown them, it wouldn't have been all this fuss. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u133	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u134	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, the phenomenon itself is embarrassing, embarrassing, outrageous, and against this background. how the cherry on the cake is what the Prime Minister's representative presented today during this debate. In fact, he has not answered any of the questions asked, and Poles are waiting for these answers. In view of the above, I would like to remind you once again that in 2017 the Prime Minister... De facto, as Mr Brejza says, additional salaries paid under the table, without regulations, without any justification, without any reason, cost PLN 114 million. Only last year the employees of political offices, i.e. the so-called. to the political assistants of ministers, over PLN 1 million was paid out. We didn't know how much was paid to government representatives and prime minister in the field. I'd like to ask you how much the famous Pomeranian governor Dariusz Derlich received... [[We'll check it out.]] ...who didn't want to go to the scene of a storm, a disaster in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, and thought that removing the effects of floods was barely sweeping the branches. Did this man receive any reward... [[Fifteen thousand.]] ...and aren't you ashamed to pay that kind of money to people like that? There was a lot of money for the bosses, and there was a lot of money for the assistants, because as it turns out, the head of the political office received 114 grand. In two years' time at the Ministry of Infrastructure. It was therefore also noted for the so-called. The briefcase. And when will it be for the nurses, when it's for the paramedics, when it's for the teachers? What about the pensioners? When are you going to give money to people and not to your political activists? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame, shame, for this is the punishment, and you will not miss the punishment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Public opinion polls clearly show that society does not accept additional wages or pay for the work done... [[What a reflection.]] ...which is within the scope of responsibilities, although the current system of remuneration allows this possibility, and regardless of that, High Izbo, whether it concerns local staff or government administration, or companies of the Treasury, or other positions in public administration. But society is in favour of rewarding every job in proportion to the scope of the tasks and the degree of responsibility. I therefore wonder whether today's discussion should not be the beginning of a broad public debate aimed at creating a new, readable system and a model of remuneration for all public sector workers, taking into account the degree of their responsibility and the extent of their tasks. And I would like to ask the Minister: Don't you think that public service is more than just a job, that it's an act for the public good... [[Exactly.]] ...where the size of the salary should not be the main determinant of this activity? Thank you very much. [[We even agree.]] [[You've been very bitchy about attacking your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Remember, two weeks ago, Prime Minister Szydło yelled from this place, raised her voice: 8 years old, Polish and Polish, we deserved these awards. Where are you, Prime Minister, where are you? Don't you have the guts? Here is your place, you should look into the eyes of all Poles and your neighbors from Brzeszcz from this place and say once again: We deserved these awards. Where's Prime Minister Szydło, where's the Prime Minister and all that Szyszko, Jurgiel, Kempa? [[Applause]] You should be here in the O.R. looking people in the eye. [[They're shopping.]] Do you know how many gold ministers from the Prime Minister's office, Minister Szrot, accepted as a reward? The one who told you today that nothing happened? [[How much?]] 56,000. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: scandal! Shame!]] Remember Radziwill? What's his name? He eliminated in vitro, eliminated perinatal standards and chased the Seym for six months with a pill the day after. Do you know how many awards he got? Sixty-five thousand! Sixty-five thousand, and then he got his resignation. [[The voice from the hall: How much money did he get his brother?]] But I have some bad news for you. For you, Minister. Tell Prime Minister Szydło and this whole thing that we're going to expose every pseudo-Garden - not just at the Prime Minister's office, not just at the Ministry. I'm talking to the voivodships, the vice-voivodships and the heads of your political offices. We'll come and check every award you've got. We're going into the Treasury companies, we're going to check every public company you've gone into so you can get that money out of it exactly. [[Applause]] You know why Macierewicz's explosions, why Smolensk, what's all this? To arouse great emotions of Poles in the Holocaust, reparations. And at that time, in such a wicked way, you got into this public money. I'm ashamed of you. I don't know how you're going back to your cities and towns. I don't know how you look in the eyes of your neighbors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will publicly show it to you in Toruń, Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk and Katowice. [[And in Poznan.]] We're gonna check out the money you took out of public companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Poles no longer have the slightest doubt that the work, humility, moderation were good slogans for you only and only in the election campaign, and in practice you showed something completely different. But despite the many months that have been going on, many weeks of discussion about the unfairly awarded prizes to government members, Prime Minister Beata Szydło still does not really know the justification for giving them these very high prizes. In particular, doubts concern those ministers who were simply dismissed at the turn of the year. That is why I would like us to finally hear from the Minister's mouth, for which the prizes have been given specifically to four ministers, who have made a special contribution to reducing the image of Poland on the international stage. Mr Antoni Macierewicz - 70,000. zł. The Minister not only led to a deterioration of the image of Poland on the international stage, he questioned the security of Poland in the eyes of Poles, but also directly responsible for the possibility of imposing compensation on Poland for the broken contract, i.e. it could generate additional costs for public finances. Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł, who led to a huge strike in the White Health Service and only the removal of the Minister from his position led to the resolution of this crisis. Mr Jan Szyszko - 70,000. zł. What did he get for if he was actually being punished because of his activities in connection with the cut-off carried out in the Białowieża Forest? Mr Witold Waszczykowski, who took 72 thousand. zł, and his international policy has led us to be threatened by penalties imposed by the European Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask about the legal basis, in particular, the bonuses that Prime Minister Beata Szydło granted herself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u141	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u142	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll join the assembly. I'm not taking care of Law and Justice. PiS takes care of itself and only takes care of itself, so there's no point in doing it and that's the right conclusion. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about this famous debate three weeks ago. Thursday, a few hours later, it was about approx. hours. 17, when the Prime Minister screamed like that in response to the question of prizes. There was also a question about retirement without taxes. Then she yelled, too, saying it wasn't right for the pensioners, [[Applause]] You don't deserve to be retired. Why didn't you take care of it? So my question today is, if you say that you listen to people, that the people were against giving prizes, giving rewards to your ministers, your officials, maybe it's right... This is now a further part of my question: If society in the vast majority wants pensions to be in Poland without taxes, so that they are not scraps - as retired people say: you gave us scraps and you took the money - are you able to listen to people and will the Prime Minister withdraw from what she said 3 weeks ago that pensioners were entitled to pensions without taxes? Minister, I would ask for reflection and a strong position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u143	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u144	Thank you, Marshal. I was wondering, ladies and gentlemen, why are you dissatisfied with Minister Szrot's reply? You also received a package of information in response to the interpellations, in writing, there is clearly, transparently shown everything, and you leave all the time... It's like you don't understand all the answers you've been given. I have come to this conclusion - and it actually proves some of your speeches: Mr Brejza, Mr Owl, who came out, Mr Arłukowicz - that the level you are presenting in this discussion, using the words... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Talk about yourself, sir.]] ...away from parliamentary, using gutter words... You are simply moving at a different level of discussion. [[And your behavior is daft.]] Hence perhaps a lack of understanding. But if you'll just listen and stop yelling... [[But you could speak respectfully to the Members.]] ...I wanted to propose that we talk about these awards in a more comprehensive way, because I think that since you are calling for such an expectation to discuss it, it is worth discussing it extensively. I have a proposal to also discuss what is happening at the local level. Are you ready to discuss prizes paid e.g. Mrs. Treasurer of Poznań County, county ruled for years by the Civic Platform... [[The old man won't pay himself.]] ...which in 2014 received 59,000. PLN annual prize, in 2015 - 52 thousand PLN annual prize and in 2016 - 53 thousand zł annual prize? That's twice as much as you got Deputy Jak, who's already returned half the charity prize. Will your treasurer in one of 300 counties in Poland, who received twice as much reward as the Deputy Minister, return half or some part of this prize? Did the secretary in the same district who received 41 thousand in 2014. zł bounty, will he return this bounty? Finally, the presidents of the Civic Platform... [[How many presidents did they take?]] President Jaśkowiak has made over 132 thousand. zł in supervisory boards, [[♪ The bell ♪]] President Adamowicz - 142,000. in the Supervisory Boards, President Zhuk - 130 thousand. on supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u145	Finish your work, sir. Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Will they return these prizes? [[Those weren't awards.]] Let's discuss this. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[And Mrs. Basia, 100,000.]] Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those twisted attempts to sober up and muffle this problem will be completely exposed by us. The Civic Platform exposed the PiS, Poles learned the true greedy face of pseudo-triots. The Poles found out that the PiS is a party of money lovers. The Poles found out that your real electoral programme is to jump into public money and finance the budgets of PiS activists and the PiS families. It's the truth about the PiS. [[Applause]] Jarosław Kaczyński panicked at a press conference and thought he cleaned up after the scandal. It tells the party activists: now it's going to be a little different, we have to sweep this problem under the rug. No, gentlemen, you're not gonna make it, because we're actually gonna get to every piece of information. And the truth about you is that you are hiding a lot of information, Mr Szrot and Minister Szrot. We have not been informed by today what awards were paid in 2016, we do not know what awards you granted yourself in 2018, but we promise you that we will check all these things out, and we promise you that you will return this money to the place where you took them from the Poles. [[Applause]] And you took the money, without asking the Poles, from the state budget and there you have to return it. Finally, I would like to respond to Mr PiS, who says that under the influence of the PiS surveys, he will change his views. Mr President, Poles have been honest since birth, not since the last poll. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u147	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, your speech has indeed shown the arrogance of power, the arrogance of power in the performance of the PiS. Your speech was just outrageous. You haven't answered any questions. You say that all this information is public and available and that it's all we're talking about. I had a chance to watch some TVP and TVP Info shows, and I have to tell you, I didn't find any news about your money heist there. [[Applause]] So don't tell me about the full access to information about these things. You have 30 government attorneys. 30 plenipotentiaries. Your Humanitarian Attorney Beata Kemp has been driving a limousine with the government's security detail so far... not the Government Security Bureau, but the State Security Service. Whose money does he do that for? Who's he afraid of? Those poor guys he's supposed to be helping? [[Voice from the room: Taxpayers.]] You have 30 attorneys. I have a question as to whether the government's agent for the development of hydrocarbon mining is also secured by the State Security Service and whether he also drives, like Mrs. Beata Kempa, a service limo. It's just scandalous how you guys act. And you say that you came to power to improve the existence of Poles? It's one big lie and one cheat. You're so greedy, you're so sorry to see that. If you don't earn money as rulers, you make extra money in Treasury companies, supervisory boards. This is clearly an abuse of power. I'm sure you'll answer for that. You spent PLN 114 million on your officials. I don't know what they've shown to reward them like that. The Minister sometimes attends meetings of the Civil Service Council in which I took part. On the question of why don't you raise this to those officials who actually work hard as part of the Civil Service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You always said, "There's no money." Because you're taking it for yourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is enough to listen to a few of the members of the PiS who had just acted to confirm their conviction. If you are here and claim, you show us with your speeches that you do not see anything wrong with the fact that you have taken these awards, that you have granted them to yourselves, only the problem you see only when the public has said to you: hola, hola, it is unintelligible, it means that you do not understand at all what honesty, diligence, decency is all about. If these were prizes, they should be properly justified. There is no reason, because these are not prizes, but I will try to tell you what the justification of the award should be for Minister Zalewska. She should be rewarded for the world championship in a lie with a smile. Oh, that would be a high reward, [[Applause]] Because she lied, she lies, just like you're all lying. You lie to public opinion and you lie to individual people in individual resorts. Minister Zalewska received the award for the mess at school, received the award for the fact that seventh graders today are overloaded with science and these children are losing their chance. This is one big scandal. I want to ask you if you know how much a diplomat earns, who has been working for many years, who has the highest degree of professional promotion. How much does he make in a year? It doesn't hit 40,000, 40,000. This is the ceiling, and Minister Zalewska hugged 70,000. prizes [[Applause]] And with a glowing smile, she says she's gonna give the money back. I have a question about what increases you've prepared for teachers this year, 2018, because you said it was big. 100 PLN, 100 PLN. That's question two. When you've spilled it to the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money for the raises? Because today you gave a residual amount and the local governments have nothing to pay the teachers of this miserable hundred.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u151	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u152	How do you feel, hugging 70,000 when you give 100 zlotys to a teacher? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That question was addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki. The Prime Minister's seat is right here in the front row. I ask you to step out of the back row, sit here, in the front row, so that the Poles can see who Prime Minister Morawiecki has put to answer these questions. [[Applause]] Don't be shy. Don't hide in the back. Come on. You're a member of the PiS team. You're a PiS soldier sent to the most important episode. I want you to show up here. Everyone can see you. You've been telling stories, you've been appealing to Members to stop asking questions about these matters. We're not gonna stop. We're gonna ask. [[Applause]] until the money is returned to the state budget. Don't be silly about giving money to charity, charity. When you transfer money to charity, you don't have to brag about it. It's embarrassing what you're doing, an embarrassing spectacle. I must tell you - I could not believe it - that Jarosław Stawiarski, Deputy Minister of Sport, returned on 7 April, listen, 45 346.67 zł... [[Not a penny more.]] ...at the Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin and wrote: I am glad that this money will help the most needy inhabitants of Lublin. Shame on you! 67 gr, not even to the full zloty round, [[Applause]] He didn't pay a penny of what he took from the state budget. Shame and shame! It shows the PiS class. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u155	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask because you say you've answered all your questions. How many prizes have you received in amount Minister Dworczyk for 2017? [[Applause]] Because we don't have that information, we don't have that information. Mr Buda, I think that there is no need for public opinion polls to find out that Poles and Poles are keenly interested in how PiS-owska oligarchy is created in Poland, how PiS-owska nomenclature is created, which is owned by the state estate and where PiS octopus tentacles reach. And we're going to show it all about one company, about one supervisory board, about one company. We'll show your friends, party activists, family, colleagues, friends. You can be sure of that. I'd like to talk about the voivodships and the vice-voivodships, because they're government officials in the field. Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivode Mikołaj Bogdanovich received the highest prize in the amount of 25 thousand. zł. The question is, for what? It's obviously not a reward, it's a pseudonagroda. Mr. Voivodeship is delaying the most important investment for Bydgoszcz by a few months, already breaking the law. It led to chaos in the valuation of the land for the construction of S5. Arrogance, not listening to people, finally human drama, that's how it ended. Or maybe he received this prize for the plot he gave to Tadeusz Rydzyk, a plot of market value of 1853 thousand. Evil? Do you know how much Tadeusz Rydzyk got her for? For 111 grand. zł. Is that why you reward your officials? [[Applause]] Mr Latos, who invented this third-legged PiS activist for this position, washes his hands. The governor says he needs to be ordered to return the reward. But one thing we want to tell you is that the long and bumpy road of the PiS oligarchy to [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS modesty, but we'll help you come this way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Don't be shy. I invite you closer because you do not really see your face and it's hard to talk to someone you can't see. [[He's ashamed.]] I understand shame and embarrassment. Mr Sąk and you, and I will respond very precisely to your reply at the end, said that they made full information available to us, so I would like to tell you that until today I have not been informed, for which 15 million PLN has been spent in the Ministry of National Defence with payment of credit cards. On April 5th, I received an answer from the Minister of Treasury and the Minister of Agriculture that I would not get an answer to the question of what they are spending their money under these ministries of the Treasury company. This is absolute impudence, all the more so that the Minister of Maritime Affairs Marek G grubierczyk answered this question, so you can, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like the law prohibits this answer. I asked, Minister - the question remains unanswered - Mr Jack Kurski, what went to 800 million PLN of subsidies. We all know that on TVP the rewards were paid to attorneys, employees. Mr. Kurski is also avoiding the answer. So please, Mr Undersecretary, ask the Prime Minister to discipline individual ministers and President Kurski so that he will answer this question and not be afraid. We're gonna get to that information anyway. The sooner you make them available, the less shame and humiliation you will face before the local elections and later before the parliamentary elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u159	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that you are ashamed of yourself is borne by the empty benches on the side of the PiS, but I most regret that Mr Kaczyński is not here, because his voice on this issue is decisive and I wanted to ask him a question, because it was him, not the legal record, who decided whether this left money belonged or not. I wanted to ask the Member what happened to those foretold humility and moderation that you were about to infect everyone. What's left of the announcement? Nothing. Maybe nothing, something left: humility and moderation among others - pensioners, teachers, nurses. I could trade for a long time. With them is humility and moderation, and with you? It's a moneyjump. If Mr Kaczyński isn't here, let me ask the Minister, he's finally earned it. Does the release by President Kaczyński of the order to return the left money to Caritasu mean that you considered that the prizes were granted illegally? Why is Caritas, not another aid organisation, the beneficiary of the public money? And will the SKOKs be preparing the credit programme for the poor ministers? [[Applause]] Is it true that contributions paid from such high amounts illegally allocated will have an impact on the amount of pensions allocated to these people? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Future pensions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u162	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A great absent, great arrogance! We have bad news for you: the greedy loses twice. Sooner or later, your illegal reward will be paid to the state budget. It doesn't matter that today with the sour face, with your teeth tightened, you're gonna do what the president wants you to do. Otherwise, you won't get the one on the list for the Europarlament from Krakow. You're gonna do it. Ladies and gentlemen! The fox of business class, frequent flyer business class joined the group of chitrus foxes. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm not going to travel class, economy class, back and forth, like I'm going back to the Senate - she said. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, we are still thinking about how the 90-year-old Władysław Bartoszewski served as the government's representative for international dialogue. [[Applause]] He never referred to his age, to his life's transitions, to the comfort he expects from the Polish state. And one more thing. As I think of this great absent, great arrogance, I recall Albrecht Dürer's painting of Greed. A woman with a bag of money. And the woman with the bag of money is you, the great absent. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, is not on the first jury is a shame, Minister. The fact that you're sitting in the back bench somewhere is a big symbol. I do not address you, I address all Poles who are watching today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no one from the Polish government who could not stand here and insult everyone, just apologize for what you did, apologize to all Poles for these scandalous bonuses. [[Applause]] Will the Minister have the civil courage to stand here and say: teachers, there is no money for you, but for Mrs Zalewska there are 72 thousand. Evil? Will you apologize for that? I don't think you're gonna apologize. I also have a question. If Prime Minister Morawiecki had been here, would he have stood before us and apologized for his behavior as well? After all, he said that there would be no bonuses, and it turned out that in 2018 bonuses were, and worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, the peak of hypocrisy is that Prime Minister Morawiecki himself received 70,000 bonuses for 2 years. zł. Did he mind? Was he protesting? No, that wasn't the situation. [[Voice from the room: He didn't notice.]] Is someone finally gonna stand here and apologize for that? Will you stand here Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who in 2017 picked up 65 thousand. zł, by granting yourself such a reward? Will she have the courage? Maybe the Minister would finally come to the first jury or call the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government... [[He's not answering.]] ...so that someone would have the courage to stand up here and apologize for that left money you've been paying yourselves for three years. If it had not been for Mr Brejza, ladies and gentlemen, there would have been no subject. That money would continue to flow to law and justice officials' money. And Jarosław Kaczyński at the end. He's talking about modesty. Ladies and gentlemen, your taxes each year amount to PLN 1.5 million for the private protection of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame and shame. Let one of you finally have the civil courage to stand before the House and the Poles and say, "I'm sorry." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u165	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already established, Minister, that the salary for the work is due to the worker for normal, normal work - article. 100. On the other hand, according to the article. 105, according to the case law of the Supreme Court, awards are congratulations for the above-average performance of their duties and not for the normal performance of their duties. Of course, it could now be enumeratively mentioned, one by one, of all the ministers who received this gratification, and I would ask my fellow Members to stop joking and call these awards. [[Left money.]] In order not to repeat ourselves, I'll tell you this: left-handed, this is, Minister, left-handed. And the clear words are: fraud, financial offense, theft, left money, embezzlement, [[Applause]] moneyjack, misappropriation, misappropriation, abuse, scam, scandal, fraud, fraud, fraud, embezzlement. Do you want me to keep swapping? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it wasn't, you wouldn't be returning that money. Let's stop talking about prizes, ladies and gentlemen. These aren't awards. And now you have to drink that beer and you have to admit what really happened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u167	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u168	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! What picture emerges today from this announcement of government functions and power in Poland after what Mr Krzysztof Brejza has revealed? You came to power so that there might be humility, moderation, understanding of ordinary people, meeting human expectations. And indeed, you met human expectations when you decided to raise government salaries in 2016. People didn't accept it, so what did you decide? To make a heist of money quietly. For more than two years, you've been paying quietly with your left money, your salary allowance, you don't know what legal rules, what rules, and for what. Today we have such a situation that the picture of your governments is clear. How's it look? You rule only to hire as many of your own people as possible, incompetent, inexperienced. That's why you changed all the laws so that these powers, experience, powers weren't important and that you paid money to your own people. This is a country that pays money to its own party just because they obey. This is an image of the state that should embarrass you. Do you feel ashamed? Today's speeches by Members: there is no problem. You're still yelling at us like you were when the pretend-paws showed - I'm saying, because Kaczyński supposedly denies - the Prime Minister, because you deserved it. No, nothing is due to you - neither humility nor moderation. I would like to ask, Minister, how much money did the super-experienced, competent man, Misiewicz, and all the Misiewicz you hired? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They held different functions in this government. How many political advisors did they get, including Bartłomiej Misiewicz? What you're doing now is outrageous. Minister Macierewicz has already paid for this. I hope we get the information...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u169	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u170	...how much it costs to protect the Minister, to serve on the street. Clone. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u171	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next Member, I wanted to welcome the students of the Primary School in Kaszyce to them. Czesława Mączyński, Lviv Defence Commander in 1918, youth from Przemysl district. [[Applause]] Welcome. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u172	Yes, the PiS is capable of destroying the meaning of every word. The time has come for the word "reward." You really are such an anti-Midas, you're turning everything in the opposite direction. I would like to say that the word "reward" for Poles should mean money paid according to the rules for really well done work. The prize is the money that belongs to you, and you have paid yourselves the wrong witness. The point is that you developed this system in 2006 and 2007 and do not want to admit it. The question is - I ask you to answer in writing - how much did they pay themselves or how much was paid to government VIPs at the time when the Prime Minister was Jarosław Kaczyński, now wearing the robes of the Orleans Virgin? And the basic question is: When the prosecution, dependent on the Minister of Justice, initiates an investigation into the breach of powers by Beata Szydło in connection with this system of undue benefits to VIPs, for the so-called. Erki, which means members of the government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u173	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First Prime Minister Szydło thunders from the speaker that the prizes belonged to them. But for what? Or as in the Polish People's Republic: Do you stand or lie down, that reward is due? Mrs. Szydło deserved $65,000. Evil, because if she didn't admit it to herself, who would admit it to her? It was $70,000. Macierewicz, because nothing... [[Voice from the room: 72.]] ... Goliath alone could destroy the entire army, so that Polish... The same was due to Szyszka, the first man in history, who turned the Białowieża Forest into a patch. And he's owed 72,000. Waszczykowski received, I understand, for bringing Poland's strategic alliance closer to Russia and drawing new countries on the map. Payment cards in resorts - again millions of zlotys from state money. And the reconstruction of the government? How much was spent on the check-in? Poles want to know. [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] What's the amount? Thousands of your other party nominates, which in the last two years have left Poland like a mistletoe, are also due. Instead of improving the lives of Poles, the government spends Poles' money on unjustified awards, national foundations, trips around the world on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Polish independence - brilliant idea, right? - Fudges of the Ministry of Defense or the famous Bartłomiej Misiewicz medals. Why not, after all, Mr Kaczyński himself once said: Yes tailor countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how the matter stops. We cut as fast as we could. Shame on you. It was meant to be humility, work, moderation, and you simply deceived the Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He, he, he...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u175	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u176	Dear Marshal! The sly woman, the sly one from Brest, yelled at us here. Where's the right side that chanted Beata, Beata? Where's... [[Voice from the hall: She's ashamed.]] ...the right side? Shame on you. Shame. And now [[Applause]] Give me a round of applause. Beata, what aren't you here for? [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the hall: Everyone's ashamed.]] What aren't you here for? When the Parliament agreed that there would be questions for ministers that there would be questions for the Prime Minister, ministers would be asked. Today, with shame in the last government jury, Mr. Minister sits down. I understand you. Shame on you. [[Voice from the hall: I'd be ashamed too.]] I'm ashamed you have to explain yourself to everyone because you don't even know how to explain yourself. [[$50,000. Rewards?]] For eight years... [[Voice from the hall: Poles and Poles...]] ...the Civic Platform and PSL government spent as much as in 1 year of the Voivodeship and the Vice-Vote in Podkarpacie for comparison. I would like you to remember this. And if we're talking about savings and how the Platform government works, then I'm going to add that we - and probably not everyone in this room today are happy about it, but it was the Civic Platform - that we gave our 13s for social purposes without a warrant. We've eliminated 13, we've eliminated high clearances for ministers. We are the ones who - and I am addressing the Kukiz Members15 - have limited, because this has been the case, for two years the financing of political parties. We've set aside money for daycare. And you were talking about deep pockets of Poles. You're pulling a widow's penny. And today you say you have to do it, you'll have a higher pension in the future, you'll have a tax write-off. It's a scandal, it's a terrible scam the Poles won't forget. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u177	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The subject of this money is not a closed topic. We are certainly not going to let you close with some propaganda talk about the fact that this money will be transferred to NGOs, because it is not the purpose of the minister's budget or of Jarosław Kaczyński's budget, to have the ministers transfer money after some of them have not even noticed the impact of this money on their account. Minister Antoni Macierewicz said that the money was part of the salary transferred in subsequent instalments. Hence my questions. What legal basis, because I don't think it's a contract of employment, is that ministers receive an additional salary, no one knows from where, transferred in subsequent instalments in the following months? What will be the sanctions Jarosław Kaczyński will impose if one of the ministers rebels and the money received from the state budget, the left money, doesn't give Caritas back? Will there be any control? Will they have to show printouts from their accounts, or will Caritas give such information to Jarosław Kaczyński, or has this money been transferred? In what mode, or threat, or request, does Jarosław Kaczyński force the transfer of this money? Beata Szydło screamed, "This money belonged." Then what changed over the past few weeks that you would consider that this money did not belong? Is it just a matter of falling polls, support posts, pressure on the public, because certainly not humility, not moderation, nor work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Zietniak, Civic Platform. And that's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today we are discussing the famous awards awarded in the rule of law and justice. There was a convoy of shame in Poland. I attended a conference on these awards in Leszno. I said then, among other things, what is the formula of prizes, that they are due for doing additional activities that go beyond assigned tasks. I also presented a quote from Minister Kownacki's statement, who said that the prize belonged to him because he worked 20 hours a day. Well, I guess you forgot the minister's job as a minister is unlimited working time, it's not a normal working time. But he said it to explain why he took the prize. I reminded you that the minister has an abnormal working time. I didn't mention a reward for Minister Dziedziczak, who's from my district. In the afternoon a press conference took place and Minister Dziedziczak allowed himself to ask about the prizes to give such an answer. I therefore have a question for Minister Jan Dziedziczak: What did I do to deserve this answer? He said this: Wojciech Zietniak has earned 300,000 throughout his term of office. zł and its activity is limited to two interpellations and two queries. Probably during many foreign trips, the Minister did not observe what I was doing in the field, so he made such a statement. I took the liberty of not saying anything about the Minister, and I think Minister Dziedziczak, according to the football rule, that the best defense is an attack, said something about me that wasn't true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u181	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Piotr Misja. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Undersecretary Paul Szrot! This is not the end, this is just the beginning, the beginning of the end of the PiS. [[Applause]] Dear Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher once said either we stand by the rules or we don't stand by the rules. You today, Prime Minister, are lying down. Art. 82 § 1 of the Tax Code provides that any person who exposes public finances to a reduction by undue payment, collection or misuse of grants or subsidies shall be subject to a fine of up to 240 daily rates. Prime Minister! We understand that you are aware that the law has been broken in an institution under your authority by the illegal spending of public money. Prime Minister! In connection with the violation of public finance discipline by illegal payment of gratification over remuneration by law when will you hand over the case to the D.A.'s self-conscious prosecutors to press charges of this tax offence? Prime Minister! The situation of those who received the prizes, given to them in good faith, in recognition of the merits, but not in accordance with the law and justice of the Republic of Poland should be regretted. Despite this regret, the receipt of incorrect payment as a result of accounting errors or criminal acts should result in the reimbursement of that payment to the injured party, which in this case is the State Treasury. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] The transfer of an irregularly collected amount of a third organisation is a maintenance of an unlawful situation, as the damage would not be repaired, moreover, there would be a legitimacy of the tax offence. Prime Minister! Do you think that the person who obtained the money illegally may, instead of returning it to the victim, hand it over to charity? Prime Minister! When will you commit your subordinates who have received illegal transfers of funds to the Treasury? Prime Minister! Gordon Gekko in the movie Wall Street said greed is good. But it was a movie. Greed is not good. Greed is evil, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u183	Please, Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You were aware of the fact that it was not possible to pay yourself extra money in 2016, therefore Łukasz Schreiber proposed a bill which assumed a multi-thousand increase in wages for ministers. [[Applause]] This project, I believe, was written by his father and Minister at the Prime Minister's firm. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] That's when you knew you couldn't take that money legally, which is why you took it illegally. And that's what you're gonna be responsible for. Power must be transparent, so we will demand that all issues be clarified. I do not understand why until today Prime Minister Morawiecki hides his wealth. He wants to be so transparent, and what's he ashamed of? [[Let him explain what he's got.]] Is he ashamed of the tens of millions of dollars made at the bank when he was president? If he earned it honestly, there's nothing to be ashamed of, it should be something to be proud of. In his case, he obviously doesn't, because he prescribed it to someone, he doesn't want to show it, he doesn't want to show what happened to it. Minister! You'll be answering every written question here. If you avoid it, we'll go to the ministry, to the Prime Minister's office. We'll find out everything. [[Applause]] And we'll find out how much Minister Dworczyk took when he was Deputy Minister of National Defense. No dodge here is gonna help. That's what we're gonna do and we're gonna settle you down. And we won't allow ourselves to change the narrative, change the subject. No surrogate topics will be accepted. Poles today are interested in the money you took... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] ...which you've captured. Take a look at your property statements. Within two years, you've been paid five to ten times. That's the real intention, why you got that power. Just to get in the way. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u185	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome. [[Why do you need this notebook? You're telling the truth, Minister. You have to say sorry and get off the stage.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u186	Member, I have been telling the truth and I will be telling the truth. [[Marshal, why do you allow such comments?]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several dozen Members have spoken, and only a part of these statements are questions. We'll analyze them all. I will answer these questions which I will not be able to answer in writing. Some of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have asked for written answers, and this will be done. First of all, I have to say again that the case is closed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Prizes, prizes paid... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u187	I ask you to remain calm in this courtroom, please do not disturb the Minister. [[Then please, Minister, tell me the truth.]] Calm down, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u188	The amounts of prizes paid will be paid into charity by mid-May. [[Voice from the Chamber: To the state budget.]] As regards the question concerning the legal basis, it has been raised several times, starting with Mr Breyza, actually, several times. The legal basis is Article. 3 of the Law of 31 July 1981 on the remuneration of managers of public positions, including Article. 3b of the same bill. [[Voice from the room: Did I hear it right? 1981?]] Change. [[Voice from the room: Decommunization?]] In conjunction with the article. 3b of the same law and article. 24 Act on employees of public authorities. [[Voice from the hall: There is: for special achievements.]] Another... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u189	I'm asking you to calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u190	More questions. Mr Brejz will, of course, receive answers to all the speeches he was directing. [[But I don't even get it.]] As far as the legal basis is concerned, I've already responded. Mr Truskolas actually referred the questions to Mr Jurgiel more. Mr Jurgel is doing well in the fight against ASF, I can say that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: With what?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: I'll have a written reply.]] I don't see Mr Niesiołowski. He pointed to my natural charm. I could pay him back... [[The voice from the room: Oh, bravo!]] ...but we all know Mr Niesiołowski. He was asking questions that weren't for me, except for the government administration. Mrs Leszczyn. I already told you about the legal basis. [[Rules of procedure.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] Legal basis, if you'd like, we'll put it in writing. [[You're just gonna do it?]] Mr Kobyliński pointed out the reward given to the Kuyavian-Pomeranian voivode Mr Bogdanovich. [[How much?]] I can repeat what I said about Mr Jurgiel. The voivodship did well to combat storms in its voivodship. [[Voice from the hall: He handed over the plot to Rydzyk for free.]] [[He was late helping the victims.]] Mr Protasiewicz asked about political offices. We will reply in writing. Mr Kubów. I can tell you that... [[That he's doing his job well.]] ...I agree with those of the fellow Member here. Thank you for this information. Mr Arłukowicz has actually made more comment than the question, so I will not respond with a political comment here. [[This is a debate, we don't have to ask questions.]] [[Will you apologize to the Poles?]] [[Voice from the room: He can't hear.]] Mr Szynkowski a.k.a. Sok presented the questions here actually not to me, but I can also agree with him when it comes to the awards given in the local governments of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, in which, as we have heard... [[I guess he was better than Jurgel.]] ...runs the Civic Platform. I can only agree with what the Member has said. [[Voice from the room: There's no way to turn the cat's tail.]] Mr Witczak asked about the 2016 and 2018 awards. [[Voice from the room: Hard.]] I repeat, in 2018 they were only paid at the firm. They've been returned. [[What account?]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] [[Voice from the room: Where were they returned?]] As regards 2016, the reply will be made in writing. [[Voice from the hall: Minister doesn't answer, he doesn't hear.]] Mr Stasiński asked for a written reply, how many awards you received, Minister Dworczyk, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, in 2017. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Such a reply shall be given in writing. He also asked about Kujawski's voivodeship. That's what I was talking about, too. Mr Misilo of Modernity asked about the purposes of issuing payment cards in the Ministry of National Defence. As far as I can tell, the Ministry of National Defence has explained this in a comprehensive manner, Mr President. [[Voice from the hall: It is not true, it did not explain.]] As regards questions concerning public television and the discipline of Mr Kurski, I find it difficult to refer to an independent entity, which is public television. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Independent.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Prime Minister, but this is public television 100% owned by the Treasury. What independent entity?]] [[Voice from the room: After all, it's PiS-owska TV.]] Mrs Hanajczyk... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u191	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u192	...was claiming that these prizes were awarded illegally. She's given many words that I can't agree with in any way. As far as the legal basis is concerned, I've already exchanged it. As for the prizes for members of political offices, this is what Mrs Radziszewska asked, the answer will be given in writing. [[How much did they get?]] [[Voice from the hall: They don't know because they have to count.]] Mrs Navel from the Civic Platform. Her statement was also a commentary. Mrs Skowronski also made more comments than... [[But I'll ask around the budget. From now on, get ready.]] Ask, of course. Mrs Rosa. I already told you about the legal basis. You also asked Mr Kaczyński a question. I don't feel entitled to answer them. Mr Zietniak also asked Mr Dziedziczak a question. I will not speak on his behalf either. [[Will you apologize to the Minister of Poles? Because I asked that question, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u193	Don't yell in the courtroom, sir. We're not yelling in the O.R. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: In the final statement, Mr Bear and Mr Owl... [[Missed.]] [[Missed.]] ...they continued to present the same thesis. about the alleged illegal payment of prizes. Already on the subject I told you. In conclusion, I just want to say one more time: the subject is closed. The prizes will be given to charity. [[Will you apologize? Apologize to the Poles.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Ladies and gentlemen! The remaining questions will be answered in writing. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: A 2018?]] Thank you, Minister. In the mode of correcting Mr Marek Owa. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! The minister said the job was done properly. If you do it properly, you do the job and you get the remuneration that you have and not any left-hand benefits, the left-hand money. And if you don't do it, then... You throw that person out. The Minister needs to know about this, and you should know about it at the PiS. Secondly, I want to tell you that half the answer you didn't believe yourself because you laughed at them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u195	Thank you very much. Please, by correcting Mr Krzysztof Brejza. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u196	Minister! You referred to the article. 24, which states that an award fund of 8% can be set up at a public office But it doesn't relieve you of the fact that it has to be the nature of the prizes. I think you'll agree. It doesn't exempt you from following the article. 105 Labour Code: the award must be for outstanding, specific achievements, and a copy of the award notice must be submitted to the Minister's staff file. Therefore, I repeat the question whether you have informed the rewarded that they are rewarded, or whether it was a permanent allowance under the pretense of rewards, paid in advance, so that your oligarchs can supplement their salaries by 6,7 thousand. zł, about such amounts, about which the Polish pensioner, the person receiving the minimum salary, cannot even dream of. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u197	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 50 hrs 13 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws (prints Nos 2334 and 2408). I ask Mr Piotr Olszówka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 60th meeting on 22 March, the Sejm sent a draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. Subsequently, on 10 and 11 April, the committees considered the abovementioned. the project, bringing 11 amendments to it, e.g. amendments to the extension of the employability of workers. The aim of the project is to create the possibility of hiring a helper at harvest. This is mainly about workers from other countries. It is a project that contains very simple conditions, employees who are employed have health and accident insurance for the period of these harvests. As rapporteur, I also kindly inform you that the Legislative Office, acting under the general authority granted by the committees investigating the draft law, has made an editorial adjustment to the obvious typographical error in the article. Point 8 of the submission of the report, which is to amend the words "which'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u200	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This law is very expected by farmers, mostly by vegetables and fruiters, because it allows for easy employment of the auxiliary worker on the farm. Employment has been very difficult so far, and it has often been the case that farmers have employed in black, because the procedures have been very complicated. This law allows employment at a fee of PLN 180 per month of insurance for the farmer concerned. The bill was prepared by the government, which is why great thanks to the government for reacting so quickly at a time when such a law had to be drawn up. I also want to thank the social side, which has worked very much on this bill, supported the work on this law, helped to make this law as good as possible for the social side, for farmers, for gardeners, for sadists. I mean the paprika from the district of Przysuski, who came every day to committee meetings - they were on everyone. It is also the solidarity of individual farmers who fought for the extension of this law. I would also like to point out that Members who work in districts where tobacco is grown have fought very hard for this issue - the rapporteur, Mr Olszówka, stood out in this fight - and these issues have been regulated in these amendments. Of course, there was an association of sadists. We expanded this with our amendments, initially there was a proposal 90 days, then 120 days, at the moment there are 180 days in this amendment, so that the gardener, the farmer will be able to hire... [[And that's enough.]] ...for 180 days. We expanded it, as I said, about other activities, departments, among others. tobacco, hops, herbal crops, as well as such a very controversial matter, so that the farmer could report the worker, the helper and had to wait for the post, for the decision of the old man. As part of the amendments, we have regulated the matter that the farmer will be able to hire immediately from the moment of the application to the old age. That's all there is to it. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would just like to ask that we adopt this bill as soon as possible, because it is expected. I know, I hope that the fact that the Civic Platform Club had previously filed for rejection at first reading, which extended for another day, for the next weeks to process this project, was just an accident at work. I very much hope that at the moment no club will make any amendments or requests to reject this project. We have two legislative amendments prepared, very small, but at the moment I do not make them, because I am waiting for the reaction of other clubs. If the clubs do not fold them, neither will we because we want this law to be passed at this meeting because farmers require it, and we listen to Poles, we listen to farmers. [[Mr President, make a deposit.]] Your marshal, hence such a request to clubs, especially to the Civic Platform Club, which, as I said, applied for rejection at that meeting and it extended the work on this project for several weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u201	Thank you, sir. The Sejm has determined that in... I'm sorry. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I hope you come to our debate. In the draft act on social insurance for farmers and certain other laws, the government proposes to introduce into the national legal order a new type of civil law contract under the name: the aid agreement for harvests. During the legislative work in the committees, the social side drew attention to the urgent need to regulate social and economic matters for seasonal workers working on harvests. Farmers also pointed out that there were no hands to work on agricultural holdings for the harvest of agricultural products produced on their farms as part of their activities. We also learn from the impact assessment that this regulation will cover about 500,000. seasonal workers and 1400 thousand. agricultural holdings. It should be noted that a number of amendments have been made to the draft law in the course of its legislative work, which will certainly facilitate the application of the legislation adopted. This includes: extension of the delivery time for harvests from 120 days to 180 days. My club at first reading paid attention to this problem. I am pleased that this problem has been regulated during the committee work and that this deadline has been extended to 180 days. Another amendment adopted by the committee is the extension of the catalogue of operations and plants covered by the aid agreement for tobacco, hops, herbs and herbal plants. The Civic Platform proposes to include mushrooms in this catalogue. On this issue, we will make an appropriate amendment. We would like to point out that the implementation of the harvest aid agreement will require a compromise between the employer and the employer. In practice, this will also mean that on the farmer's side there will be new bureaucratic burdens related, firstly, to the calculation and payment of contributions: health, sickness, accident and maternity, and secondly, to the worker of the seasonal PIT document. At this point I would like to ask the Minister whether the administration, i.e. the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the National Health Fund, and farmers are prepared for this large operation in the field of handling, as well as the implementation of legislation, the action to be covered, as is apparent from the impact assessment, about 500,000. employees? At the same time, we are aware that farmers will bear the costs of applying the harvest aid agreement. And here I would ask the Minister to tell me what the burden will be on farmers or one seasonal worker employed. This is important in order to have a view of the additional costs the farmer will incur for the employment of a seasonal worker. We also point out that the Social Insurance Fund will deal with the issue of the incentive fund. The Civic Platform shall at this point propose an amendment to ensure that the incentive fund does not exceed 4% in the calendar year concerned. the planned expenditure of the component fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform points out that, due to the urgency and validity of this project, the pace of legislative work in the Sejm is correct in our view, and I do not want to say that it is fast but correct. This is due to the following facts. Firstly, on 6 March this year the project was adopted by the government, on 22 March this year the first reading of the project was held in the Sejm. Today we have a second reading, so we cannot say that the Civic Platform deliberately slowed down the work on this project. We just thought this project had to be improved because he was not quite thought out, indeed. [[But don't throw it away.]] And he'll probably still need clarification when he comes into force. This schedule I've presented, I dedicate to all those who have a different opinion than us. Despite the many doubts that we have raised during the work on this project in committee, the Civic Platform will support this bill, recognising that this is a good solution, a good step towards civilising the employment of seasonal workers. That's our final sentence. Thank you, Marshal, and at the same time I wanted to make the appropriate amendments on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Joint Committees on the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. In my opinion, and a large group of farmers who employ seasonal workers to work on their farms, this is a very urgent and long-awaited project. The first harvest of fruit will begin soon. According to the calculations of the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy, about 450 to 500 thousand are needed in individual agriculture. seasonal workers. These workers are currently missing, which is the consequence of last year's amendment to the Employment Promotion Act and the labour market institutions implementing the so-called regulations. the seasonal directive. Poland's adoption of the directive required our country to introduce the same working conditions and wages for workers from both Poland and abroad. The entry into force of the Act from January 2018 led to an increase in bureaucracy and general information chaos. In addition to the rapid increase in labour costs resulting from the minimum hourly rate and full labour displacement, there has been an increase in bureaucracy and the complexity and ambiguities of the procedure for the employment of foreigners. At the same time, it is worth noting that the market does not know voidness and Polish farmers enjoy competition, which would certainly exploit the devastation of the fruit and vegetables industry. The introduction of a new type of contract, which would be strictly dedicated to those who work at harvest, is an attempt to meet the expectations of the industry. The new employment formula is intended to benefit both harvest workers and farmers as employers. The assumptions are correct, but a detailed analysis of the rules and consultation with representatives of fruit and vegetables growers do not convince me that the objective will be achieved. The problem is too short a period for which an aid agreement can be concluded for harvests that have been extended to 180 days. No rational justification has been provided as to why farmers cannot be allowed maximum employment for 270 days, i.e. the same as European Union legislation allows. Why the Polish government and the politicians of PiS are notoriously moving forward and putting a loop on their necks more than required by European Union legislation. No one forces either farmers or workers to conclude contracts for an entire period of 270 days, but this possibility should exist so as not to impose additional obstacles on both parties. Working in agriculture is not only a collection, sorting, preparation for sale, but also a variety of care activities or aimed at improving the quality of the crop, i.e. working much longer than during the proposed 180-day period. Why are we creating excessive restrictions, making it difficult for farmers, as well as for seasonal workers from abroad, complicate the law? We shouldn't be blocking these kinds of deals. In conclusion, I would like to call for an express pace of work on this law so that it enters into force as soon as possible. It is needed practically for days. Farmers would like to benefit from the benefits of the law here and now. They would also like it to be good, so that it will not need to be corrected in the near future. That is why we have prepared an amendment which I ask for support from Members and the High House. As regards the deadline and the appeal of President Telus, I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, that this law should go to the Sejm in January. About these problems We knew when we adopted the law on the seasonal workers directive. Already then the work should be advanced and this bill should be in the Seym, and not now we correct, accept, correct. So I would very much ask and appeal for these laws to go much faster, not at the last minute, because it happens again. I also make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. [[Can I correct it? Because it was for me.]] Here you are, Mr Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u206	I only have one question for the president. What do you mean, paw-paw? Because I don't understand. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u207	All right, gentlemen. [[That was a question.]] That was not a corrigendum, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please calm down. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u208	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Maybe a little serious, because the project is very, very important. On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, prints Nos 2334 and 2408. The project concerns the regulation of matters relating to the social security of farmers' helpers when harvesting on a farm by defining a new type of civil law agreement on aid for harvesting in the social insurance provisions of farmers. In addition, the provisions of this draft law have prepared changes in the field of health insurance and personal income tax, which will refer to the helpers of the farmer. At the joint meeting of two committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, on 11 April 2018, significant amendments were made to the content of this proposal. It has been changed, among others. the scope of the harvest aid contract. In the government draft law, this agreement concerned fruit and vegetable harvesting, while during the committee's work this scope was extended to include hops, fruit and vegetables, tobacco, herbs and herbal plants. The period of validity of the harvest aid contract has also changed. Initially it was 120 calendar days, but this period was extended to 180 calendar days. And for that, I would like to thank the joint committees. This is very important - very important - because not only the opposition parliamentarians called for this, but above all the social side. I'm glad it's been corrected, changed. The farmer on whose holding the helper will carry out the operations specified in the harvest aid contract will be required to pay for him accident, sickness and maternity insurance contributions. Despite taking into account some of the comments made during the public consultation and in my previous speech, the bill is not flawed. Firstly, only KRUS entities will be able to enter into this type of contract, and therefore there is a call for harvest aid agreements to be concluded by non-KRUS entities as well. And that's what we're calling for to get back to that. Secondly, the draft law states that the President of the cash register, in agreement with the board of farmers, may create a incentive fund as part of a write-down to the administrative fund, calculated from the contribution fund referred to in Article. 79. 2 (1) setting the amount of the Fund's appropriations for the calendar year concerned at a rate of not less than 4% the planned expenditure of the contribution fund. The modern amendment on this issue is aimed at ensuring that the fund's funding is not more than 4% the planned expenditure of the contribution fund. And I ask the High House to support this amendment. In view of the above, the Modern considers that taking into account some of the comments and amendments submitted is a step in the right direction. We want this bill to enter into force as soon as possible. We want to support this project. I see that we are working on this and the opinions of the representatives of many clubs indicate that we are aiming for everyone to support this bill. I hope that we can reach a compromise and introduce the provisions we have called for. I hope you will support our amendment. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to a very important aspect. Namely, the labour market is problems not only in the agricultural labour market but also in other sectors. This is a serious challenge and we need a serious debate on this. I am pleased that we have managed to develop solutions that will support farmers who actually have some problems on the labour market during periods of hard work. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Posel Club The modern amendment I mentioned earlier. I ask the High House to support this amendment. I also declare for my part, on the part of the Modern Poselski Club, support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. And please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I present my position on this project. First, a few sentences of admission. Namely, Polish gardening has developed very intensively over the past several years - on the one hand, thanks to European measures that allowed the introduction of new technologies, on the other hand thanks to the ingenuity, commitment, knowledge and experience and mentality of gardeners who knew how to use these measures, know market conditions, produce what the market expected, and these results were achieved, very good results in terms of production growth, export growth, value also because we were competitive, very competitive in external markets. One of the factors that caused this competition was that we had the lowest labour costs and the easiest of all the countries that competed with us on the international market, access to workers. Since gardening is uneven and seasonal in nature, the demand for gardening occurs in various periods of the year in different dimensions, so far, in terms of Polish workers, was very little willing to take it. That is why, in recent years, we have developed solutions that have made it easy to obtain labour from Ukraine, workers mainly from this country, who were very much interested in providing farm work, made good money, and nevertheless Polish farmers were positively distinguished employers against all their competitors. Unfortunately, this was amended on 1 January 2018. As if, under the pretext of the regulation of this seasonal directive, rules have been introduced which have made access to the outside workforce much more difficult, administratively difficult - I have said this many times, also on behalf of our club - but also in financial terms, as an additional fee has been introduced for obtaining a permit or for submitting an application at all. Therefore, today, after a few months of new legislation, we see large chaos, mess, misunderstanding, ignorance and quite significant delays in the issuing and obtaining of permits by farmers. We see inhibition, creation at its own request of a narrow throat, which hinders access to the labour force from the outside. This bill is sort of the government's exit... as if it were to make amends for those mistakes that were committed in the Employment Promotion Act and the labour market institutions that are currently regulating the arrival of foreigners. I will be honest, honestly, that the solutions contained in this law are good, good and meet most of the expectations of Polish fruit producers, Polish gardeners. That is why our club supported this project earlier, supports now and will support in the vote. However, in this project, and in general by creating a law, we should strive to ensure that the rules are precise, meet all expectations or most expectations of the environments that are involved in changing this law, which makes it possible, among other things. my organization, the Association of Polish Sadists, and other organizations that have been very active in the process of creating these laws. At this point, I would like to thank all of you, including the officials, those who contributed to this. However, as I said, it is worth creating a law so that it meets the expectations and requirements of competition in international markets. We are now ahead of a difficult season - there will probably be large harvests and we will have to win with others, offering our products on export markets, because in the vast majority of these products we export. And there are still several records in this law that cause controversy and which the environment of Polish gardeners does not accept, among others. too narrow is the group of crops covered by the regulations - there is no e.g. cultivated mushrooms, there are no ornamental flowers that are cultivated under cover, and in these cases there is also a need for seasonal workers. We are also talking about the duration of the contract or the possibility of concluding it for a fixed period. Let me remind you that the Seasonal Directive and our national legislation say that the maximum working time for the seasonal work of an outside worker, for example. an employee from Ukraine, is 9 months old and in the Act this period is shortened. Finally, the burden on the helper at harvest, the burden on KRUS, does not take into account that this work is often carried out within a few days, within 2, 3, 5, 10 days, and even though income tax will be too much burden for many farmers and workers. It is about the income tax itself, its amount, and the need to draw up a PIT and present it to the employee and the tax office. For this reason, on behalf of the club, I am proposing a number of amendments which, in our opinion, after the entry into force of this law, together with these amendments, will significantly improve this. Once again, I would like to stress that regardless of the final form that this law will adopt, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is worth it to be in legal circulation, so our club will vote in favour of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a new profession: a farmer's assistant. Those helping farmers in crops and orchards will no longer be able to work for a work contract. I'm having second thoughts. I think that this law will be clarified during the process. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that this project will contribute - attention - to reducing the administrative burden of the farmer. Meanwhile, the host will have to pay insurance premiums for the farmer's helper: accidents, sickness, maternity and occupational. He's gonna have to calculate it, keep an eye on the deadlines for the Social Insurance Institution. The government also wants the income of the farmer's helper to be taxed. Therefore, by the end of February of the following year the farmer will have to send the form PIT-8C to the tax office for the employee. Authors... [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I ask the project: where is this administrative facilitation? It's all about money. The state revenue according to calculations is expected to increase by PLN 381 million. I am convinced that farmers have thought this through and expect this, but it would still have to be clarified in this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Working in agriculture, and especially in harvesting, depends on weather conditions that cannot be fully predicted. And I have a question: What will happen if the harvest work specified on a specific day is not done e.g. because of heavy rainfall - and this applies e.g. Raspberry harvest - on the next day the employee will resign from the work for various reasons and will withdraw from the implementation of such an agreement at all? Will the farmer, who will not only have problems with the harvest, still have to pay for this worker's contributions? And if so, on what grounds? And I wanted to ask if farmers are aware of what these solutions are. Are they aware of the large bureaucratic responsibilities that will burden them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u215	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the suggestions made by the Chief Labour Inspector, who pointed out in his remarks that, with regard to accident prevention, farmers should be required to ensure safe, hygienic working conditions for those who provide assistance to them in the seasonal harvest. And I would like to ask whether - and if so - these obligations will rest on the shoulders of farmers benefiting from seasonal workers in this respect. I'm thinking about health and safety at work here. And do farmers know that, and are they, of course, prepared for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u217	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project came up. Of course, we are accused of blocking this project, and the problem is that we already have seven amendments from the PiS Members themselves, and we are now making further amendments, because there are errors in the project. There's no rush here, because it's a very important bill, and farmers need it. We are not going to block this absolutely, we just want to make it clear that there are major irregularities there. I would like to ask the Minister to tell me what will be the monthly burden on an individual farmer who employs such a person on the basis of a contract, with the lowest national wage if that worker receives it. And second question: Would you agree that the fund's money should not be transferred to incentive prizes, but to a rehabilitation fund for farmers, i.e. will you agree that a write-off of this fund will not be less than 4% ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you guarantee this, of course we will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish family farms produce multi-directional, multi-product production. They need help from farmers not only for 180 days, but from early spring to later autumn. That is why this is my question to the Minister: How has this group been assessed, which will not benefit from the benefits - the benefits, the limitations - which the European Union is giving, so that it will not be able to make use of this full period of 270 days? As for Mr Telus, I was surprised by a little by Mr Telus' ignorance of the Polish language. The Polish language is colorful, but the paw-cap, as if you had checked it out, means three things: quickly, without thinking, just how. That's what this means. I hope I have extended the language base of the Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u222	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! I am a resident of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, or actually part of it, where farms with an area of about 10 hectares dominate. Farmers grow vegetables and fruit in a small area to improve the profitability of their farms. At the top of the harvest, these farmers are forced to use their hired power, a few days a year. My question to the Minister is as follows: Do you in the Act provide for regulations that solve farmers' problems related to the so-called. Neighbor's help? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u223	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski to answer questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer as competently as possible all the questions that have been asked from the room, as well as during the club speeches, and address specific issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Many times there is a question of the divisibility and indivisibility of the contribution. This is a very important element that appears in the questions of representatives of practically every club. We tried to explain this during committee meetings during the process of this law. The contribution, which is to be removed as a helper at harvest, consists of two elements: so-called. health contributions and so-called "health contributions' the accident contribution. Health contribution is currently 142 PLN, the accident premium is 42 PLN, i.e. the total monthly amount of the burden on the farmer is 184 PLN. This is the only burden on the agricultural producer who will employ on his farm on the basis of a new form of civil law contract of a helper at harvest. As far as taxation is concerned, there is no additional income tax on the part of the agricultural producer. The income tax will be payable on the side of the helper at harvest, while the farmer will be obliged by the end of February each year to present to the tax office PIT-8C regarding the income of the helper at harvest. Of course, a helper with so-called collections. the national tax will be paid in our country, while in the case of helpers at harvests, for which this law is also created, e.g. from across the eastern border, they will pay this income tax in their country. On the other hand, with regard to this proportionality, this part of the accident, or that part of the 42 PLN, is calculated, of course, in proportion to the period of employment, so if this is the period of employment 3-, 7-, 10-day, this part will be calculated proportionally. On the other hand, as regards the health contribution, the health insurance contribution is monthly and indivisible. It shall be calculated on the basis of the assessment basis according to the title subject to health insurance in different ways. The amount of the contribution to the health insurance of households of farmers operating exclusively in the field of special divisions and farmers' assistants shall be 33.4%. the average monthly salary in the enterprise sector in the 4th quarter of the previous year, including income payments, announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. The contribution from the new dimension base has been valid since 1 April of the year in question. The percentage of the health insurance contribution is 9% the basis of dimension, is monthly and indivisible. Therefore, it shall not be reduced in proportion when the person is subject to health insurance only for part of the month. This indivisibility does not apply only to seasonal workers, but it is generally accepted in our legislation, so this issue, I think, is clarified. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a question of extending the catalogue of people who should perform so-called. seasonal work. Once again, the Directive is being invoked. In that 2014 Directive, which is cited here, it is clear that when transposing this Directive, Member States should, where appropriate after consulting the social partners, draw up a list of those employment sectors where work is based on the seasonal rhythm. Seasonal work usually occurs in sectors such as agriculture, gardening, especially during sowing or harvesting, or tourism, especially during holidays. It's clearly written down, which is seasonal work. On the other hand, if we are already referring to the next directive, to agricultural products, it is a very broad catalogue which also contains cereals, sugar, seeds, but also such things as milk and dairy products, beef and veal. In a moment, it may turn out that if, for example. We will include the entire catalogue in the seasonal work list, a farmer who owns a farm, let's say, well above the national average, e.g. 100, 200, 300 ha, and employs e.g. He's growing up, he's throwing that milkman out of the so-called. the social security system, i.e. from normal employment, and will employ it as a seasonal worker, because why it has to pay higher social security contributions, like this 184 PLN, which is the basic, very important difference here. So in a moment it will turn out that when we implement a new form of civil law contract, we also simply throw away a lot of other people employed in the entire agri-food sector. Trade unions, I am no longer talking about agricultural trade unions, which have very strongly advocated the adoption of this law, but other workers' unions have very strongly advocated that, above all, we should remember the social interests of workers. Going further, the government project had 120 days and not according to the EU directive 270 days, precisely because of the demands of other social organisations, which simply made a very strong basic condition. Ladies and gentlemen, please bear in mind that you are throwing these workers out of the pension scheme. These workers are paid only and only by health and accident contributions, so we cannot allow such workers, in quotes, to be thrown out of the pension scheme for 9 months a year and not have the opportunity to work for their future at retirement age. Thus, such issues should also be remembered, which is why 120 days were requested in the government project, and according to the amendment of the Sejm this was extended to 180 days. We believe that this is really a very limited issue when it comes to extending this period. Another thing that comes up very often, which is very much discussed, is, of course, the question of the incentive system. Where did he come from? Why at least 4%, not e.g. Less? The presentation in the impact assessment of the amount of the increase in the Social Insurance Fund's salary fund as well as the increase and provision of a minimum level of incentive fund is essential for the implementation of the new tasks under the proposed statutory amendments to aid contracts for crops concluded with the farmer's helper. The insurance fund estimated this at approximately 1.6 jobs in regional branches, while in the headquarters for 4 additional jobs, which would generate an additional cost of about PLN 4.5 million for additional salaries for newly employed persons. On the other hand, with regard to the incentive fund, this incentive fund was reduced to really minimum amounts, because in previous years it was the level of e.g. 21 million PLN and it was reduced to 9 million PLN. Therefore, the proposal to amend to specify that the minimum amount to be paid to the incentive fund will be 4%, which will allow the incentive fund to be evened out to 21 million. And in order not to have a typical political discussion anymore, I will say that this incentive system will really only be intended for typical substantive workers. [[And where will it be written?]] We are talking about basic employees, such as the referee, the specialist, the inspector, the chief specialist, and, as far as possible, the head of the papers, typically substantive. [[But there's no record of that.]] We are talking about expanding incentive systems for such employees. These workers should be kept in mind with an increased number of tasks so as to motivate them to carry out additional tasks in a changing labour market. [[The KRUS paid back 0.5 million.]] As regards health and safety issues, it should be noted that farmers as self-employed persons in their individual holdings are not directly subject to labour law regulations. In order to ensure the safety and health of farmers, despite the lack of obligation, despite the voluntary application of occupational safety and health legislation by farmers, legislation relating to agricultural work is being established. As regards compliance with the health and safety rules on the farm, it should be noted that the interests of the farmer's aider in this case have been adequately secured. It follows from the provisions of the project that the farmer is obliged to provide the farmer with the appropriate tools necessary to provide assistance in the harvesting of fruit and vegetables. As a result of the extension of this catalogue - which is beyond doubt - they must meet the health and safety requirements of work, such as those of the equipment and tools that the farmer uses on a daily basis on his farm. The conditions under which the farmer's aid will be provided must also comply with health and safety rules. The aim of the projectors is to guarantee the farmer's helper safety and fair working conditions, health and safety at work. It is argued that the bill is still alive, that further amendments are being made, but as the parliamentarians working in the joint committees themselves have noticed, the social side which has been very active in this work, which has been making further demands all the time, hence. extension of this catalogue by such agricultural departments where min. 50% the value of one kilogram e.g. the product is precisely the labour price. That is why we wanted to include, we included these departments here, but the Sejm of the Republic of Poland extended this scope to include tobacco, hops. The Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is prepared to implement the Employee Loading Act. I hope I also explained why the incentive system was extended. The issue of neighbouring aid, Commissioner, unfortunately does not fall within the scope of this law, but the aid in harvesting really meets the expectations, it is a really small burden on the farmer, who will use this new form of civil law contract, and above all it is a safeguard of the interests of those workers. One of the messengers mentioned the contract for the work. The work contract didn't give these workers any protection. Indeed, there were quite extreme cases when these workers had accidents and had no benefits. And this contribution will allow seasonal workers to, first, health insurance, second, accident insurance. These are fundamental issues that should be civilised and which should be reflected in our national legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u225	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws is very much expected, both by farmers and by people providing aid for harvests, and the necessary project. The adoption of the proposed form of contributions - a contribution which will be in a moderate, non-excessive way to the farmer of less than PLN 180 per month - will provide social and health insurance for the worker. In addition, the Act will allow a significant reduction in the obligations of an administrative farmer. The harvest aid agreement, without too much burden on labour costs, will at the same time safeguard the interests of the worker. It welcomes the fact that the work of the committee has been extended by acceptance of the amendment, which may be carried out under this agreement, including tobacco, hops or herbs growers should be satisfied. It is also glad that the urgency of introducing these regulations, after all, the work of harvesting in agriculture behind the belt, and the time of the entry into force of the law has been accelerated. My question concerns the estimates of the number of people who will work on the basis of the agreements proposed in this Act, including the number of foreigners, and how this will evolve in relation to the number of contracts applied so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws following work in committee. The way in which this novel is processed raises a lot of controversy among some. According to a few, this process is too fast. The project requires further analysis and discussion in the subcommittee. That's what the total opposition says most of the time. Fortunately, however, the majority of the Sejm recognizes the seriousness of the situation and the need for an imposed pace of proceding, the need arising from the expectations of farmers and Sadists who, under this law, will be able to employ helpers in their farms in a clear, clear and less costly way, e.g. the need for helpers. from the upcoming harvest period. It is known that the project is not perfect, that it contains flaws. All possibilities and possible consequences of the regulations have not been analysed. It is well known that it would be much more sensible to adopt only projects that are devoid of these defects and are working perfectly immediately after the introduction. However, we are in a situation where this deadline and the time of the procession are of great importance for the future of many Polish families living from agriculture, often in crisis situations. They see their salvation in this project and in the regulations contained therein. They support this project and have repeatedly expressed this opinion during the work to date. I believe that we are obliged to act as soon as possible to them. Well, thank you. for the intensive work put into this project, for not giving in to the attempt to slow it down, for listening to the requests for the first version of the project and adopting the appropriate amendments, for good cooperation. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u228	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2347 and 2407). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Health Committee, in print No. 2407, on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, in print No. 2347. Sorry, that earlier print was, of course, 2407. The amendments proposed in this draft law concern the assessment of the purpose of the investment and the dedicated assessment of the tool in the form of an evaluation instrument for investment applications in the health sector commonly referred to as IOWISZ. These proposals for amendments result from close to an annual experience in the application of the rules. The proposed provisions, on the one hand, respond to the requests made by the applicants and to the opinion of the applicants for an opinion on the appropriateness of investments, in particular as regards the clarification of certain provisions, and clarify some questionable interpretation issues. The project will provide greater access to an opinion on the purpose of investment for medicinal products by extending the scope of healthcare services for which it is possible to submit an application. High Izbo! The calendar of the bill was as follows: 14 March this year. The project entered the Sejm, on 20 March 2018 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the bill to the Health Committee for first reading, the first reading was held on 10 April. During the procedure, the Legislative Bureau proposed four legislative amendments relating to the Article. 1. All amendments together with the entire bill were accepted by the High Commission, which is why on behalf of the Health Committee I kindly ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u230	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, contained in Sejm print No 2347, as well as in the report, aims to rationalise expenditure on health investment in order to ensure that the expenditure incurred is more and more effective, or that the effect is achieved with the least possible effort. The concern of the current government for this issue, for more efficient use of resources, expressed itself in a very unique system introduced in 2016, a tool we call IOWISZ - a unique tool, because little known or not present in other countries. This system has so far included hospital treatment, outpatient care and basic healthcare. It is strongly correlated with the needs expressed in the developed, gradually developed map of our country's health needs. This issue - the concern for rational spending - is particularly important when the current management of the Ministry, as well as the government, attach great importance to increasing the expenditure on health protection. So on the one hand, we are significantly increasing the expenditure on health protection, so far, over the last two years, it has already been done in comparison with the previous period, and on the other hand - it is about the adoption of a law which guarantees that this expenditure will increase by as much as PLN 500 billion in the coming years. Therefore, by increasing expenditure, we must not forget to look for such methods of analysis as to ensure that these inputs are used as efficiently and cost-effectively as possible, with good results. Such an external and thorough and comprehensive assessment of investment projects before granting grants will, in my opinion, avoid subjectiveism for relevance, for a more objective assessment of projects undertaken in the field of health protection. It is also worth noting that the proposed amendment extends the scope of investment projects to re-investments, i.e. - as I understand it - in the current IOWISZ issue there will be new forms which, apart from new investments, will be additionally related to re-investments. And the precious thing is... We pay attention to the efficiency of the use of funds also for repair and purchase of equipment. Those who are interested in the practice of health care and the structure of budget spending in recent years know that the huge money from the state budget goes to health care providers just for better equipment for hospitals, scientific institutes, etc. In practice, I met with the opinion of one of the hospital directors that we have so much money that we do not know what to do with them. In order to avoid a situation of accidental use and management of such funds, it is necessary to apply external methods and a thorough comprehensive assessment of investment projects in order to avoid any waste of resources. A very valuable thing - I think so and on behalf of the club - is that the scope of healthcare services has been extended to cover other areas, with the exception of occupational medicine and public health, so far. Medicinal entities whose lead authority is the Minister of National Defence and the Ministry of Interior have been excluded. In this respect, there are controversy as to whether or not it should be [[♪ The bell ♪]] to allow such exceptions. I think that the specificity of the operation of these units allows us to introduce some uniqueness here, but this is of course what we need to discuss. Thank you very much for your attention. On behalf of the club, I would like to state that we support this project and we will work very closely to improve it further.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u232	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club an opinion on print No 2347 - this is an amendment to the Act on the provision of public-funded health care. This amendment aims first and foremost to extend the obligation to assess the appropriateness of investments for medicinal entities. It abolishes the reduction of quota limits and the condition for applying for European funding. The issuing of opinions for certain entities is mandatory and for others optional, but at the same time affects the conduct of competition proceedings, and thus also affects the conditions for selection of providers in the contest procedure. It also differentiates entities because of the founding bodies, here I am talking about the Ministry of Home Affairs and the MON, excluding them from this obligation. The government also proposes to modify the pricing fees for drawing up the opinion. So much for the design. While the first amendment on this subject, which introduced IOWISZ, or the system of assessments from the point of view of the validity of the investment, seemed reasonable, this one raises a number of doubts and asks a question about the real purpose of the investment. Investment should be primarily in line with the needs and strategy set by the maps of health needs. However, many differences and different treatment of operators can be seen in this amendment. Nor is it a comprehensive solution. The solutions proposed above indirectly, but clearly modify the principles of contracting by the National Health Fund and promote certain medicinal entities. The project is therefore inconsistent, does not regulate public funding rules, and even differentiates, and introduces new burdens for operators without benefits for these entities. The project does not determine for what purposes and what investments are subject to mandatory public opinion. According to the above project, the founding bodies of the Ministry of Health and voivodship, because the voivodship can create a therapeutic entity, at the same time opinion and issue such an assessment. To conclude, therefore, the above proposals contained in this amendment, we believe that they are not implemented in a comprehensive manner and do not clearly define the purpose of the investment in line with health needs. For this reason, as well as the division of actors in order to obtain assessments of the above conclusions, ill-reliability, as well as the poor assessment issued by the Sejm Analysis Office, we will maintain the position that was in the Health Committee, so we will vote against this project, and we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u234	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, contained in print No 2347, complements the current provisions on the assessment of the appropriateness of public involvement in the investment of medicinal products. We don't think it's a good project. And not only in our opinion, but also in order to escape politics and build on the views of only one of the groups, we should refer to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which is difficult to describe as a political body. The opinion and the legal and substantive aspects are very critical of this project, because the proposed provisions on the assessment of investments of medicinal products indirectly, yes, modify the rules for contracting health care services by the National Health Fund, but do they simplify procedures? Unfortunately, additional bureaucratic obligations are imposed on medicinal products. Bureaucracy in the health system is one of the biggest burdens that have a negative impact on its functioning. The proposed rules do not regulate the rules for public financing of medicinal products and introduce additional obligations for those entities, which, in my opinion, further complicates the system of public-funded health benefits without significant benefits for these medicinal products. The extension of the obligation to assess the appropriateness of investments for medicinal products by broadening the scope of their activities will be subject to an opinion. And at this point, we need to consider what are the reasons for abolishing the limits on the amounts that were a condition for this type of opinion in previous legislation. First of all, it is important to focus our attention on why - because this raises our doubts - the medicinal entities for which the entity is a MON or an MMA are privileged. We don't see here... We have no understanding of the arguments which the Ministry makes in its justification. The Kukiz Club15 will vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law on amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds. My opinion on the health laws put forward by the ruling majority has not changed - almost every time the idea is right and the problem lies in the details. The same applies to the bill that is being processed today, which, despite many reasonable assumptions, also raises a lot of doubts. My opinion is not isolated because even during the consultation, a similar opinion on the implementation of the IOWISZ system was submitted by the National Institute of Public Health. We read in it: Systemically, it is a beneficial solution which potentially accelerates the decision-making process at the voivodship level. On the other hand, it is doubtful to place the tool in the supervisory authority (voivodeship) without the influence of local government units and responsible authorities (marshals, starosta). The purpose of the investment has always been crucial to the proper spending of funds. I am, however, concerned by the stubbornness with which the government wants to decide, through its nominates, on investments of a local nature, which are very often local, which concern only a specific community. I am able to understand to a certain extent the strategy of the rulers, which results in the taking over of further institutions and which is intended to ensure continuity and sustainability of power. However, let us remember that health protection, because we are all potential patients, should be apolitical. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the system, it needs to be adapted to local needs. These, in turn, are to be described in the maps of health needs, which we do not create because of EU requirements, but because of the needs of patients in the regions concerned. However, these documents still need to be improved, as they do not fully reflect all the needs of local communities. However, the contested law proposes to introduce solutions which are to be largely based on them on an assessment of the appropriateness of the implementation of the investment. In addition, this instrument is to be managed by a central authority representative, which is the voivode. In my opinion, this approach is an expression of the extreme lack of trust in local authorities, which have been chosen by local communities. In addition, such a solution can generate conflicts on the line of the voivode - the marshal, because it is often the Marshal's office that is the founding body of the hospital, and in fact it will ask for an opinion on the purpose of the investment. In conclusion, it should be noted that once again, the project has a very good basis and how many earlier indeed aim to improve the functioning of the health care system, unfortunately the stubbornness with which it seeks to increase the competence of the representatives of the central administration at the expense of local authorities, is completely incomprehensible. Unfortunately, such a political approach to the health system will not limit queues to specialist doctors or affect the real improvement of conditions, I stress, the work of medical staff, nor will it guarantee effective and more targeted spending from the state budget. The only political objective is to increase the impact of voivodships on the implementation of local health investments. I do not find in this proposal a substantive justification for the introduction of these solutions. The instrument for assessing investment proposals in the health sector is undeniably needed, but first of all, let us work out together, beyond divisions, maps of health needs, and then let us introduce the tools that are to be based on them. The Modern Club will vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u238	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u239	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of our club, I would like to express my position on a project that, as Mr Ruciński said, maybe has a good diagnosis. Perhaps it is good to diagnose a condition where greater coordination is required, greater cooperation, checking the accuracy of individual investments. With the diagnosis, as if I summarized the appearances of all opposition clubs, we all agree, only the therapeutic process which you propose to implement, completely does not agree to the role that the local community should play in deciding its future, i.e. self-determination. Self-government is the self-determination of the communal, district, voivodship community, all those units that are founding bodies for hospitals. Sometimes it is a city, sometimes it is a county, most often it is the level of the voivodship, that is, the Marshal of the voivodship. And you want to once again, unfortunately, this is a redecisive, take away the competences of local governments, as in the case of voivodship environmental funds, issues related to agricultural advisory centres, the impact on sport and tourism, melioration and water management. Now there's an area of decision-making to invest in health care. One of the basic functions of self-government is to take care of the health safety of citizens. This can only be done within the full decision-making pool, which must be in the hands of the local community. I would be very much in favour of this law if you gave more competence in the coordination of health services, e.g. Marshal of the voivodship when it comes to cooperation with other local government authorities. For these reasons, because once again sovereignty is limited, self-determination of local communities is limited, we cannot support this project. The diagnosis is correct, but the treatment is completely unacceptable. There was also talk about the excessive bureaucracy of this process, about increasing the volume, colloquially speaking, of the documents that need to be completed, of everything that is growing and what will prolong this process. This is another reason why we cannot support this solution. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was also well said by my predecessor, Mr Ruciński, that health care should be excluded from those political emotions that happen very often. Today the debate is calm. It is a pity that there is no longer reflection, listening to the voice of the opposition and wishing to make changes to this law. Not strengthening central power, but strengthening local government is our goal. I hope it will be realized - not now, but in the future. That's what we're going to do. We cannot support this law, we will vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u240	Thank you. Now you will take the floor of the Member... Oh, she delivered it in writing. So we're going to ask questions. I'm closing the list of questions. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u241	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just have one question, a question relating to the maps of health needs. This was discussed and discussed during the committee's work, that the original project was based on maps of health needs, and therefore I have a question: Will these maps be updated and when? And one more question. Re-investment issues. So far, has it been possible to apply for funding for re-investments through IOMISZ, and if not, why, and what does this new law bring? And whether this is what health and self-governments have been calling for very strongly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that there is a possibility in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u242	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Ms Katarzyna Głowala, will now speak. I have not yet closed the discussion, but I will close it after the speeches by the Minister and the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u243	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In listening to this discussion, I would like to address some of the comments, because I believe that they need to be corrected. Firstly, the instrument for assessing investment proposals in health care is an instrument that is already in place. This is not something new, something we are only introducing now, but it is an instrument which already operates under the Law of 21 July 2016 on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. We travelled all over Poland, met with every voivode and talked about the functioning of this instrument. The Voivodeships, as well as the starosts, i.e. local government units, told us that the instrument is a very good tool, but requires some modifications. As a result, the bill that we are investigating today is the answer to what we heard during meetings in the field with local government units, and is merely a clarification, ordering a certain state of affairs that already functions. I would like to remind you that a total of 1426 applications, including 213 to the Minister of Health and 1213 to the voivodships, have been submitted since the adoption of the Act in 2016. A total of 424 applications were rejected, i.e. 30%, of which 75% by the Minister of Health. A total of 978 opinions were delivered, including 134 issued by the Minister of Health. There were 833 positive opinions, of which the Minister of Health issued 100 positive opinions. In fact, the instrument mostly concerns local government units rather than central government supervised entities. There were 84 protests which resulted in 42 positive opinions and 24 negative opinions on these protests. I would like to point out that the European Commission has responded very positively to this instrument because, let me remind you, we have received money from European funds. The Commission wanted tools from us that would contribute to more efficient public spending. The Commission has taken the maps of health needs from us together with the IOWISZ evaluation instrument and expressed a positive position, so this is no attempt on democracy, this is not an attack on bodies, this is just an instrument to support rational public spending. [[Supporting instrument.]] It should also be noted that the contracting of benefits is regulated separately in the benefit law and has no relationship, i.e. it is not necessary to obtain an opinion from IOWISZ, and therefore it is not necessary to identify... This is something additional that affects the acquisition of the contract, but IOWISZ's assessment does not determine the acquisition of the contract by the entity. I will refer further to the fact that during the debate there was a statement that we are different actors. This particularly applies to entities supervised by the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. I would like to remind you that we have a law of 25 May 2001 on the reconstruction and modernization of technical and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, in order not to interfere in the process of planning the development and modernisation of the Armed Forces on the basis of this law, we decided to exclude investments up to PLN 1 million for entities supervised by MON and MSWiA, but these entities must inform about such investments. Over 1 million these entities will have to obtain an opinion from IOWISZ. So we don't differentiate between entities, we just make a small exception not to interfere with the law on the security of modernization of the Armed Forces, which is justified from the state's point of view, because these entities, apart from normal contracting of benefits, also perform certain security and defence tasks. They must also make certain purchases related to security and defence and therefore this exception applies only to investment purchases up to PLN 1 million. This is not a total release, I remind you once again, it is up to PLN 1 million. Another thing: I would like to point out that the NFZ is a central payer who distributes money to central entities and local government entities. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that we intervene through IOWISZ in the local government, because it is really the payer who distributes contracts, distributes funds and must have an opinion about... he must know how public funds are spent. On the other hand, when it comes to voivodship, the voivodship is not a supervisory authority, it is about SPZOZs, which function below, it is only the one who creates politics in the voivodship, it sets priorities for health policy and has the right to issue opinions on the purpose of investment in the voivodship. As regards the questions made by the Member with regard to maps of health needs, the maps of health needs were taken in 2016. They are up-to-date and we will have, next year, an update of health needs maps. On the other hand, as regards replacement investments, under the current Act the replacement investments had to obtain the opinion of IOWISZ, but they were on one form, together with the so-called. new investments that were linked to innovation. Where it was a replacement investment, it lost its scores because the form concerned both. The bill, on which we are proceeding today, separates these two forms, is separately for re-investments, separately for new investments, which makes this score compatible with the investment in question. It's all about change. It's all about change. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u244	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. This amendment is the result of an observation of the existing functioning of the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector - IOWISZ. On the basis of the experience gained, applicants have prepared a number of amendments to the current Act aimed at increasing the efficiency and relevance of investment decisions taken on the basis of it. These include increasing the possibility of requesting an opinion on the purpose of the investment and linking the possibility of applying for grants with having a positive opinion. According to the opponents of this project, it differentiates between therapeutic entities and centralises health protection. However, I share the ministry's opinion that the votes of the opponents are not right. Like the Minister of Health, I believe that public funds should be spent with particular reliability, insight and detail. It is extremely important to ensure that they are used only to meet the current, in this case health, needs of society. IOWISZ is based on health needs maps, so it works as a tool to assess the sense and purpose of investment in a given region. I also do not see a risk that would lead to inequalities in therapeutic entities. In most cases, the law leaves the possibility to obtain an opinion from IOWISZ as an optional option, but encourages it to obtain additional points in the evaluation of the proposal. Whether or not an entity requests such an opinion and adds it to the application for funding is up to that entity alone. In turn, if he asks for an opinion and receives a negative opinion, I do not see the need to finance missed investments from public funds. As the designers point out, this novel is the result of experience and a response to demands. Its aim is to increase the effectiveness and transparency of the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the health sector. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u246	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws (Print No 2333). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr Witold Słowik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u247	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Minister for Investment and Development, I have the honour to present the Government's draft amendment to the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The aim of the Act is to eliminate the identified barriers to the further development of the public-private partnership market in Poland and, as a result, to increase the involvement of private capital in the implementation of investments and public services in Poland and to further improve their efficiency. The provisions of the proposed law will allow for the application of solutions known from international practice, which should further increase the attractiveness of PPP markets in Poland. The proposed law is the result of the Responsible Development Strategy for Public-Private Partnership and is one of the actions resulting from the implementation of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2017 on the adoption of the Government Policy for the Development of Public-Private Partnership. Speaking of the Responsible Development Strategy, it should be pointed out that the current government is taking concrete steps to maintain the economic growth rate of the country, even if the available European funds are reduced and their acquisition becomes more difficult, for example. by using feedback instruments or instruments requested centrally by the European Commission. The proposed bill concerns amendments to the Public-Private Partnership Act and 19 other laws and aims to introduce legal solutions that will enable the efficient preparation and better implementation of infrastructure projects in the PPP formula. The project was widely consulted within an expert group composed of representatives of local governments, ministries, lawyers, PPP market practitioners and during inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultations. The comments and opinions submitted had a significant impact on the final shape of the bill. As a result of the most important planned changes to the regulations, any investment in Poland co-financed by the state budget of over PLN 300 million, but not co-financed by the European Union funds, will be obligatory, at an early stage of preparatory work, to be analysed in the PPP formula. PPP test. This analysis will then be the subject of an opinion by the Minister responsible for regional development. Any public contracting authority, regardless of the size of the planned investment in the PPP formula, will be able to ask the Minister responsible for regional development to give an opinion on the planned project, so-called. certification. There will also be an obligation to analyse the effectiveness of each planned PPP project. Tools will be put in place to facilitate market monitoring of PPP projects. There will be facilitation in the procedure for selecting a private partner. PPP projects on the basis of existing public entity companies will be possible. There will be an opportunity for PPP projects to be implemented by so-called. the subsidiary of a private partner who did not participate in the tender, thereby reducing the costs of the companies concerned in PPP projects. To facilitate the financing of PPP projects, e.g. as a result of the introduction of a clear basis for concluding the so-called. direct agreements and the introduction of so-called direct agreements. the rights of intervention. It will become permissible for local authorities to grant special grants to private partners to finance or finance investments related to the performance of their tasks. There will be an extension of the freedom of local authorities to increase parking fees in newly created urban areas of paid parking in 39 major cities in Poland as a result of an increase in the current limit for 15 years and the connection to the minimum wage. There will be a possibility for a private partner to build, renovate, maintain or equip social assistance homes. Expenditure on the implementation of these new tasks of the Minister responsible for regional development resulting from government policy adopted by the Council of Ministers for the development of public-private partnerships and the draft amendment of the Public-Private Partnership Act is estimated at less than PLN 17 million over 10 years, including a little over PLN 6 million for implementation of the so-called "Private Partnership Act." PPP test, of which for the year 2018 and 560 thousand. PLN and budgets for the next 9 years - after 645 thousand. PLN per year. PLN 10.5 million in the years 2018 to 2027 is planned to be spent within the limits allocated to the Minister responsible for regional development for voluntary certification of projects. If possible, expenditure for this purpose will be borne by European funds. The government's public-private partnership development policy assumes that 100 new public-private partnership agreements will be signed by 2020 with a value of 5% in the form of public-private partnership. investments in the national economy in the public sector, which should generate about PLN 23 billion. The increase in investment should translate into an increase in consumption, employment and additional revenue from goods and services tax. In addition, due to the amendment of the rules mentioned by me, which gives the possibility to increase the limit on parking fees in the centres of large cities, there will be an opportunity to obtain additional revenue by local government units, not the state budget. The amount of these revenues is not measurable, but at least 65% the proposed provisions will have to be used for investments to improve public transport in cities or green investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u248	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present to the High House a bill amending the Public-Private Partnership Act from print marked 2333. This draft consists of proposals for amendments to 19 laws from different branches of law. As the name says, it is the Public-Private Partnership Act. This is a very important, responsible law because it allows for close cooperation of private companies with public and public sector entities at business level. Even though it is already in force, although it is beneficial for all, this law is very unpopular. In this law, we must first of all draw up rules so that both the official and the entrepreneur have a clear and secure legal framework in which they can and should move without risk of conflict with the law. The main objective of this law is to bring about agreements consisting in the division of responsibilities and the financial burden of the public sector at the expense of a private entity, without exempting it from liability and supervision. In the case of such an agreement, the public sector makes investments without financial investment or with a very small symbolic effort, and the whole financial burden is taken over by the investor. In other words, it is the allocation of economic competence to a private entity, which means that it makes investments from its own financial resources, and an investor, the public sector, only accepts administrative, or supervisory powers. Maybe I'll give you an example, like the Minister. That's for example. the construction of a multi-storey parking lot with private funds, with its subsequent use by the investor for 30 years, which gives him reimbursement of the costs incurred. This law is very necessary and beneficial for both the state, public and economic sectors, as this law gives the public sector a chance to do so. A quick leap into the future, because it can make not only smaller but also multi-billion-dollar investments without engaging in its own resources, which gives a chance for a very large development, instantly explode investment, because the private sector has funds that are willing to invest under rational conditions, especially since, as we know, many municipalities are already on the verge of statutory debt. This law is also an opportunity for the Polish economy and Polish companies, because it opens new investment horizons to them, which consequently stimulates the economy, eliminates unemployment and, what's important, because they are mostly long-term investments, creates such a company so-called. positive economic stabilisation ballast. The objectives of the Act: to relieve the budgets of public entities in the investment phase by providing financing by private entities, so-called. external; ensuring better quality of services and the infrastructure provided, because, as we know, it will be in the interest of the contractor to make quality optimal, because it will be the controller for many years; the possibility of implementing innovative solutions for the construction and maintenance of individuals or the provision of various services; the identification and development of friendly rules for the use of the public-private partnership formula; the increase of public bodies' awareness of PPPs as an equivalent alternative method for providing high-quality infrastructure and public services. Models. There are two models. One is a concession contract for works and services - as you remember, I presented this law before the High Chamber - in which case the contractor receives remuneration from the recipients of services. And the other is a deal with the so-called. the availability fee for which the entity receives remuneration from a public entity, supplemented only by payments received from fees charged to the public. High Izbo! Please accept this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club will support this law because it is a law needed by the Polish economy and the Polish public sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u250	Thank you. Now you have the floor of Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and certain other laws contained in print No 2333. Public-private partnership is a very important element of the economy. Unfortunately, we are not yet fully exploiting all possibilities. PPPs primarily involve private actors, free public funds for other purposes, enable the acquisition of private sector knowledge and experience, contribute to efficiency and benefit the allocation of risks between operators. At present, there is a PPP law in place from 2008 and during this period, from 2008, how we could find out after a very thorough analysis of the report that appeared, 490 proceedings were opened, of which 116 contracts were concluded. The dominant procedure for PPP contracts is concessions. This is 2/3 of the market. Here we are a little bit, so to speak, at the gray end. Taking into account, for example, Great Britain, where, as we know, it has been operating for 20 years, and very well, we can say that in the UK hundreds of schools were built, 44 hospitals, prisons, roads, railway lines, sections of London metro as well, many government buildings, countless projects from the environment and waste management. It is very good that we will try to develop this form. With us, the priority is whether the most of these projects are from the area of sport, tourism, energy efficiency or infrastructure. Here, bow towards our local governments, because they are the ones who make 90%. these projects, i.e. it turns out that the local government can and is more efficient. If we approach the procedure more flexibly, as it is included here in the bill, it will certainly be very good. I hope that, when this project is sent to committee - I hope it is a very important economic problem to the Committee on Economic Affairs - that there will be a subcommittee in which we can work, because the amendment of both the 2008 Act and the 19 other laws that are linked to each other is very important, as it is important to examine the entire period during which all these projects were implemented, because we have the effectiveness of this, i.e. the start of the procedure and the completion of the undertaking successfully, let us be honest, is very small. I hope there's a job opportunity. Depending on how this work goes on in committee, we're gonna make decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The amendment aims to improve the existing legislation, while as usual it is not free of defects, so I will focus first on the negative aspects of this amendment. Firstly, the potential use of public procurement law by administrations is at risk also in cases where the contract It would clearly be subject to the regulations of the Act on a works concession or service contract. According to the justification of the bill, one such reason was the small scope of application of the Public-Private Partnership Act. Here, the risk associated with the application of the provisions of this law is too great. The next negative aspect relates to the conclusion of a contract by the company of a private partner's daughter against a potential opposition by a public entity which has to give its consent as there are no grounds for expressing or refusing it. In our view, such a refusal must be justified. A negative aspect is also the limitation of types of public-private partnership companies to capital companies. Further negative aspects are too far-reaching restrictions and lack of a mechanism allowing for a change in the duration of the company and a prolongation of the participation of a private partner. Such a situation of necessity may take place. Another negative aspect is the extension of the catalogue of cases in which the consent of all shareholders of a private partner's company will be required to the public entity in which the public-private partnership will be carried out, to the activities of the establishment of another company and to the acquisition or acquisition of shares or shares of another company. The need to obtain the consent of a public entity may result in such action being prevented and, consequently, may affect and impede the proper and timely execution of the investment. A negative consequence is also the contractual exclusion of the investor's joint and several liability towards subcontractors in respect of a public entity. This is apparent asymmetry in terms of public entities and private entities. Another negative aspect. The possibility of transferring all the rights and obligations of a private partner to a financing entity under an agreement between that entity and a public entity without the participation of a private partner in the absence of precise grounds for such transfer of rights may jeopardise any application of that measure to private partners where a serious threat, not specified, arises from circumstances for which they are not responsible or liable. And the most important negative consequence in our assessment, which may threaten the support of the Kukiz club15. The amendment of the Public Roads Act may mainly allow for increased parking fees in cities, and it seems unjustified, in our view, to carry out these changes within the framework of the non-binding amendment of the Public-Private Partnership Act. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I request that the project be referred to the local government committee. This committee is most appropriate to consider this project. Local authorities are most involved in the concept of public-private partnership. As a Kukiz club15, we do not apply for rejection at first reading, but we hope that what I have mentioned here will be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u254	Thank you. Now Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, print No 2333. There is no doubt that both now and in the past there has been and there is a very low level of use of private financial capital for public investment, which has often caused a lack of ability to solve many problems related to the efficient provision of public services, which has also had a direct impact on solving many problems of everyday life of Poles and Poles. On the part of both business and public entities, including local self-government units, there were voices that, without making legislation more flexible, investments that could be carried out in the form of public-private partnerships would not take place. It should therefore be concluded that this submission, which amends both the Public-Private Partnership Act and 19 other laws, will at least partially deform the investment process in the PPP formula, and these changes should be assessed positively. In particular, the amendments relating, first, to the flexibility of the PPP procedure with regard to the provisions of Public Procurement Law and the concession law deserve attention. Here is the fact that if a procedure is carried out in the form of Public Procurement Law, then contracts may also be included in the formula of the concession law. This is a good step, it certainly constitutes a deformity of this provision. If we are talking about the proposed solutions, they also take into account minimising the risk in such a situation of challenging the procedure for selecting a private partner. The next amendment concerns the introduction of the possibility for a special purpose vehicle set up by an entrepreneur whose offer was considered to be the most advantageous in the PPP formula. Of course, this will depend on a number of provisions relating to public interest protection, but this is how public-private partnerships operate in the world, and daughter companies are set up in partnership agreements. Another solution that can be welcomed with moderate optimism is also the possibility of creating a partnership on the basis of an existing public entity company. There is certainly no need in many cases to break down those doors that are already open and to make investments solely on the basis of the entity that already exists. It is also possible to positively assess the possibility of amending the normative provisions in relation to the content of the offer on the basis of which the choice of a private partner was made and to correlate these possibilities of amending the contract with the PZP and the concession contract law. So far, the situation has been feared many times... Because basically you couldn't change the PPP contract, so those rules were this. less favourable than the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The bill submitted also introduces amendments to 19 different laws, among others. tax legislation on the possibility of obtaining tax interpretations. That's good, too. On the other hand, this also provides an opportunity to increase the rates of parking fees in city centres. But that is the competence, as the Minister said here, of the local government. There's an opportunity. Whether the local government benefits from it or not, it will be the responsibility of the local government. The amendments also concern property tax, the Public Road Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore propose that this law be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs and also to the Committee on Local Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u256	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u257	In the opinion of the Modern Club, these are two committees...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u258	You have the floor now, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u259	...who are competent to deal with these matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u260	... Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Finally, we would like to wish that the law, which has been in operation for 10 years, would act because, in fact, it was a repeatedly amended law, many words were devoted to it, it would be a very ambitious law, but it did not function, because 116 joint ventures were difficult to call success. Any attempt to change, upgrade, activate is welcome. We will support the referral to the further work of this bill, but we should constantly wonder where is the reason why private capital cannot be combined with public self-government capital. The mentality and approach of us to the system of law-making, and this search for a thief in everyone is visible, that is what people fear, that is what local government officials fear, because every thought, even when it comes to combining public capital with private capital, already raises suspicions, is already politically incorrect, and even if you can't assign someone here a bad will or even any corruption, then the political price will always come. This is what will happen in the local media against local government officials, that the political price will always be paid. And if we don't do anything here that would protect the local government from this responsibility, even this political responsibility, then there won't be any success. The second thing is the stability of the law. Today, people are also worried that the crew will change, that the new crew will come, that they will change the law to get the one they need, that they need as a political loot. And this also contributes to the fact that there are no successes here, which is a pity, because there would be great potential, large private capital involved in the implementation of public, social projects, those that are most needed in the environment. When working on this bill, you have to keep your mind on the reasons why this is happening all the time. We will work on this law, we will want to finally after 10 years, so that what others are doing with great success, with great success, also with us, in Poland, can be introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u262	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. Seven ladies and gentlemen are notified. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[One and a half minutes, Marshal.]] As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point I would like to remind you that one of the first investments in Poland carried out by local government and private entity is the construction of a new District Hospital in Żywiec, which due to inconsistencies and lack of transparency of the rules has been extending since 2011. At the beginning of the whole project, there was a problem with its financing for short-term contracts with the National Health Fund. Polish and European banks demanded adequate collateral for the loan. There has been a psychic situation that the existing facilities of the health care team under the mortgage, not the property of a private partner - the entire municipal property for a period of 30 years, the entire municipal property for a period of 30 years, were transferred to the hospital. At many times this investment has been covered up by partners [[♪ The bell ♪]] In front of residents of corporate and banking secrets... Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u265	... Can I have two seconds?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u266	There you go, two seconds. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u267	That is why I wanted to ask the authors of the draft amendments whether it contains the basis for all information related to investments...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u268	Madame, it has been 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u269	...in the public-private partnership formula were public and transparent.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u270	Mrs Anna Cicholska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u271	One more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u272	...law and justice club. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u273	Are those contracts related to the construction of hospitals...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u274	Thank you very much. I can't tolerate a double extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u275	...so important a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u276	This is next time, Member, in the next term.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u277	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u278	You're welcome. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u279	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This draft law on public-private partnership, as the rapporteur pointed out in his speech, consists of 19 laws from various branches of law. Even though it is beneficial to all, the law has so far been in force, it is very unpopular. Can you mention to me a few of the most important laws of these 19 different branches of law that are beneficial to the public sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u280	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the law, which has been in force for 10 years, has not produced the expected effect, because there are very few investments that are based on a public-private partnership. You might wonder why this is happening. One of the actions that the government intends to take here is to amend this law and these provisions. The question, however, is whether this is sufficient, because entrepreneurs themselves have determined that it is no longer a 3P law, only 4P, i.e. a public-private partnership and at the end there is a prosecutor's office, which is why there is a large reserve in dealing with such solutions. Therefore, in addition to changes in the almost right it would be good to change the climate around these investments, because entrepreneurs are just afraid of this suspicion that this is certainly some strange action, because if they meet public money with private ones, it is not bad. And the second point is that it can happen that in the course of such an undertaking, local authorities change, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which have a different approach to such investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u282	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my predecessors have said here, this measure is not sufficient. In our view, apart from the fact that the entire legal environment around it should be more friendly to this form... I would like to ask, because the available report, which is available, contains data until June 2017: Do you have, Minister, these compensation data for 2017? If so, I ask for some data, as the year 2017 closed, so that we can see what the trend is. You also talked about the work of this team. Maybe if you could find some time... Have they already ended, and have you supported the example of Britain here, where the legal system is slightly different from ours? I'd like to ask you these two questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u284	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the provisions that require the consent of all shareholders of the company to sell or debit the property or the undertaking or to establish another company or to acquire or acquire shares or shares of another company. These are additional entries added to those already mentioned in the existing law. And so, firstly, of course, these records strengthen the position of a public entity, that is very important. We also know that this is not an activity that is necessary for the performance of the PPP contract, it is usually exceptional, but it can happen. And now I have a question: Did entrepreneurs make comments or any objections to these additions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u286	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The good Public-Private Partnership Act and the good climate, as mentioned here, are extremely important and would allow to a large extent exploit the potential of this method of investment, raising capital, etc. Because experience shows that using this form is low - 116 contracts, this is a small scale. But by reading the submitted project, I have the impression that there are still many limitations for PPPs. And I have a question: How does the projector assess the impact on the growth of the investment scale in this investment formula? That's one thing. Secondly, what will the implementation in this form have to do with the budget of local government units, the setting of debt levels, the creation of reserves or collateral? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u288	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. Before you begin, we salute a group of young people from Stargard. Welcome. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 116 public-private partnership projects for 9 years are really very few if you consider that the municipalities themselves have 2500. And the voivodships, the powiats, the government sector? Therefore, it seems to me that it is not only about regulation itself and its improvement and flexibility, as was mentioned. It is necessary that local government officials are not afraid to enter into agreements so that they are not later accused of mismanagement, have a prosecutor on their hands, no one and other checks. Once such a request was made that there should be a government institution, a state institution, I don't know, a public-private institution that could verify the agreements already concluded, whether they are okay, whether they are good, rationally developed, balanced and done. It would give a certain testimony, a support to local government officials protecting them from some prosecutors in the future, checks that it's verified by some independent body. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Didn't you think of a solution to open up a wider path and encourage people to take this form?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u290	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Mr Witold Słowik will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, I am very pleased that the topic has aroused great interest in the fact that there are many questions, opinions. I will try to respond to all of them, as far as I can. In general, the questions included information or opinion that legislative changes themselves are not enough to develop public-private partnerships in Poland to a wider extent. Of course, I agree with this opinion, which is why the Ministry - Ministry of Development, and now the Ministry of Investment and Development - is conducting a number of other activities to develop this formula. From the very beginning, it has come to the topic as widely as possible, which is to say that we have first led to the provisions in the Responsible Development Strategy in the area: capital for development. There is a separate chapter on public-private partnership, indicating what needs to be done to promote public-private partnerships. There is also a strong emphasis on the fact that public-private partnerships are an equivalent source of funding for our country's development, at the same level as budget funding, grant funding, loans, capital markets or the European Fund for Strategic Investments. Thus, in the strategy paper of the highest rank, it is the expression of political will that public-private partnerships should be developed, that it is a mechanism that is clearly indicated, purposeful, that it is at the same level of transparency and transparency as contracts concluded under public procurement law. The next step was to create a government policy on the development of public-private partnerships. This document was adopted on 26 July. By joining this work, when the Ministry of Development became responsible for the development of the public-private partnership, we reactivated the public-private partnership team established by the Ministry of Economy, so that all these works would be carried out in the widest possible spectrum using the opinions of local authorities, other ministries, lawyers, public-private partnership market experts. This team worked in two groups. One group was involved in diagnosing legal barriers to the development of public-private partnerships. These legislative changes tabled are precisely the fruit of this group's work. Of course, then there was a wide public consultation, an inter-ministerial consultation. Because of, among other things, This consultation was so long because we started work less than two years ago in the summer of 2016. So there is no risk that these are actions without extensive consultation. We have also taken steps to promote public-private partnerships in order to erase the fourth one once and for all. According to the information I received from Prime Minister Morawiecki, we will replace the fourth prosecutor, the universality, so that the public-private partnership becomes universal. Another one of our actions and, by the way, an answer to one of our questions. As part of our activities, we have created a list of all potential public-private partnership projects in Poland. This list is published on our website. There are one hundred and fifty potential projects on it, several of which are already at the stage of proceedings. On the other hand, according to data from the end of the year, because we also conduct monitoring of existing, functioning public-private partnerships, there are 117 partnerships with global value: PLN 5.6 billion. Of course, after almost 10 years of operation of the law it is definitely unsatisfactory, hence our work. But that's all we're doing... We do other things, like. the development of contract standards so as to significantly increase the effectiveness of the proceedings being conducted, because at the moment, as I believe your Member has raised, only 116 of the four hundred and dozens of successful ones have ended, i.e. the effectiveness of 23%, so that this effectiveness will definitely increase, so that, at the start of the negotiations, the partners will of course have a non-obligatory model of the agreement, but they will be able to estimate the level of risks at the very beginning and more or less know what they are trying to do. Another important element, here the Member has said, is the certification of projects. Our department in the Ministry, the Department of Public-Private Partnership, will at the request of interested parties certify projects, i.e. giving them, in quotes, some kind of testimony that this project is economically effective, indicated for implementation in the form of a public-privatised partnership, and also, in quotes, a moral certificate, although I feel that the government itself kept a list of potential projects to be carried out in the form of a public-private partnership by the Ministry of Development, except that it is a kind of public sector offer for the private sector, also strengthens these projects, i.e. that the Ministry, that the government already knew about these projects. Another important element is education. Although we have been talking about public-private partnerships in Poland for several years, we have a current law from the turn of 2008 and 2009, this knowledge is insufficient, hence a broad training program. In fact, we trained ok. 1600 people, mostly local government officials, but we also organized two separate training courses for control units, for CBA, for the prosecution, for the accounting chambers, for NIK, for these negative historical connotations, so we are also trying to train control bodies, which have come very well prepared for this training. A few years ago, a report on public-private partnerships in Poland was created. This report by NIK did not confirm these stereotypes that most public-private partnerships are of some criminal, corrupt nature. According to this report, the number of irregularities in public-private partnership contracts is in no case greater than in public procurement. So here is a more mental barrier resulting from the practices of the 1990s, where every action at the interface of a public entity and a private entity, often inappropriate action, in a common sense was a public-private partnership, but it was not a public-private partnership within the statutory meaning. Therefore, we must decisively break these negative stereotypes and certainly legislative action also serves this purpose, but this is just one of the areas of our broad action. However, there was another question about what these legislative changes are intended to serve and what is our ultimate goal. In the government's policy on the development of public-private partnerships, four ambitious objectives have been defined very closely. The first target is 100 new public-private partnerships by 2020. The second objective is to launch at least 10 government-private partnerships. The next goal, the most ambitious of them all, is 5%. public expenditure in the public-private partnership formula. The fourth objective is to improve the efficiency of the proceedings. Right now, like I said, only twenty-six percent, about 23%. It ends with a deal. In line with the objectives set by the government's public-private partnership policy, 40% procedures are expected to be successful, so these objectives are very ambitious. One of the necessary conditions, but of course insufficient, to achieve these ambitious objectives is to eliminate legal barriers. This legislation is precisely designed to eliminate barriers to the development of public-private partnerships identified by the broadly understood market. There was also a question here about the parking lot that was most interested in public opinion. So I wanted to stress, first of all, that under no circumstances does the government raise parking fees and there are no such proposals under these legislative proposals. It is to give local governments the right to raise parking fees so that local authorities can effectively fight smog and that the creation of parking spaces in the public-private partnership formula is economically viable. This applies only to the 39 largest Polish cities and only to inner-urban zones, zones specifically created for the purposes of these statutory provisions and the connection of the maximum permissible amount with the minimum remuneration. According to the proposals, this is 0.45% the lowest salary for the first hour of parking. Another issue, the link between the Public Procurement Law and the Public-Private Partnership Act and the concession law. We treat these three laws as the basis for the development of public-private partnerships in Poland and we want them to be compatible with one another and that the provisions of the Public Procurement Law, which regulate the same legal areas, are similar to those of the Public-private Partnership Act and the Public-Private Partnership Act. In addition, a new concession law has been adopted in recent years in the framework of the implementation of the EU Directive and the work on this law has been aimed at ensuring that these provisions are fully compatible with each other. It's a matter of law of intervention. This is about the possibility - I am using a thought shortcut and I am talking colloquially - of saving certain vulnerable public-private partnerships because public-private partnerships are largely implemented on the basis of bank debt financing. So we want to create such a mechanism so that when a private entity has problems, it does not implement the contract, the entity that lends it is able to enter into the rights and obligations of a private partner. A number of actions, as the rapporteur has pointed out, are aimed at making public-private partnership provisions more flexible so that it can be brought to a happy end at the stage of the procedure. Hence the possibility of ceding rights on a daughter's company. One of the questions was asked. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u292	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court (prints Nos 2389 and 2441). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. These are 2389 and 2441 prints. The Sejm at its 61st meeting on 11 April 2018 pursuant to Article 7 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The committee held its meeting on the same day, i.e. 11 April 2018 The meeting was attended by Deputy Director of the Legislative Department at the Ministry of Justice Wojciech Ulitko. The project introduces a two-step consultation procedure when the presidents and vice-presidents of the courts are dismissed and objective criteria of the interest of the judiciary and an important social interest as a basis for the National Court of Justice's consent to further judgment by the judge after the age of 65, and gives the President of the Republic of Poland the power to object to further ruling by the Supreme Court judge after the age of 65, as well as the competence to appoint assessors. In addition, the project balances the age of retirement - 65 years - of judges of women and judges of men, while at the same time leaves the right for judges of women to choose to retire after the age of 60, regardless of the period of employment. Finally, the draft regulates the convening of the first meeting of the National Courts after the President's resignation. During the committee meeting, all the regulations of the project were systematically discussed. Four substantive amendments and numerous legislative amendments were adopted. The substantive amendments differentiate the procedure for remaining a judge after reaching the age of 65 in the case of the general courts and the Supreme Court, as well as introducing a reserve procedure for convening the first meeting of the National Courts following the release of the President's office, in the event that the first President of the Supreme Court has not convened the meeting. The discussion of the project was lively and even turbulent at times. The doubts raised will probably be reflected in the amendments tabled at the time of this reading. After a few hours of work, the project was adopted by the committee. 11 Members voted in favour, 7 opposed, 2 abstained. Therefore, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the report of the Committee on Printing No 2441. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen and all the members of the committee for their cooperation. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u294	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u295	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The European legal system is based on the recognition of constitutional pluralism in Article. 4 of the Treaty on European Union, which at the same time guarantees that each Member State can shape its judicial system in a sovereign way. The tensions between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are enshrined in the nature of the democratic system, so their existence does not mean that the independence of judges is at stake. The Treaty on European Union secures the national identity of the Member States as the exclusive national competence, which means that judicial reforms should be assessed at national level by the competent authorities. Polish judges have very strong guarantees of this independence, one of the strongest in Europe. This law, which I called the democratic package for the judiciary yesterday, we want to strengthen these guarantees of independence and independence even more. That is why we are now proposing, as well as yesterday, further amendments to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. These committee meetings were requested by the High Committee. The first was intended to complement the mechanism for expressing opinions and to make the system more coherent with regard to the selection of the College of District Courts and Appeals. The second amendment, tabled yesterday at the committee's meeting, provided that the power to agree to the continued office of the judge after he reached his retirement age, should be transferred to the National Judicial Council with the exception of other bodies such as the Minister of Justice or the President of the Republic. Since, in accordance with the amendment, the body set up by the Constitution to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, its decisions should be final. This is in line with the assumptions underlying the original version of the proposed law, according to which the KRS was to decide on appeals against the President's provisions. The exclusion of the President from the whole procedure leaves all the powers in this respect to a collegial body composed by a vast majority of representatives of the judicial community. There is therefore no need for another appeal from his decision. The next amendment, tabled yesterday as the fourth, was intended to replace the procedure for the President's consent to continue to serve as a Supreme Court Judge after the age of 65 with the possibility of objecting to the further occupation of that position by a judge who declared his will and presented a medical certificate. The purpose of the last amendment, tabled as the third amendment, is among others. supplementing the rules on the convening of the first meeting of the National Judicial Council after the resignation of the chair of the Council in such a way as to ensure the effective convening of that meeting. Enough with the obstruction! The Polish state will operate, the Polish judiciary will be reformed, and the theoretical state you created no longer exists. Thank you very much. [[Oh, he's showing off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u296	Thank you. Mr Boris Budek will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u297	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you have to agree, the theoretical state does not exist, because the state of the present majority is unable even to comply with the laws that you yourselves make. You can't make a good bill, even though you've got a whole state camera behind you. The PiS state does not even exist theoretically, because the standards you adopt, which came into force last week, must be corrected, because they are embarrassing, because they are written by amateurs, because no professional would sign under those legal bubbles that go down to the High House. You have designed the justice system for the PRL system. Your idée fixe is the creation of a country such as the Polish People's Republic - the Polish People's Republic of Bis with a uniform state authority. The very essence of how you understand the justice system is the view expressed by this speaker that judges should serve the State. Nothing more vicious. The judge should settle disputes objectively, independently, on the basis of the applicable rules and not be part of the state apparatus. For if a judge is brought into the role of a state officer, then the citizen will have no chance in colliding with you. The Supreme Court was designed as an institution to resolve the most important legal issues. Meanwhile, you in your billings have made the Supreme Court an armed party arm, which will be tossed out of the work of insubordinate judges and legal practitioners. In addition, at this moment in a manner that violates the principle of three readings, you add to the law which originally concerned only the Supreme Court and the general courts, a change in the system of the National Council of Courts. You're writing the law on your knees just to fill the gaps you've created. You want manual court control to be on every level, from the district court to the Supreme Court. Yesterday, from this speaker, you assured me that the President of the Republic should have a decisive voice in matters in which the question of further judgment is resolved. Meanwhile, a few hours later, you changed your mind, and you're saying that the National Judicial Council is going to do it. Indeed, according to the Constitution, the National Judicial Council is an institution which is to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, but you, contrary to the Constitution, have constructed the National Judicial Council as an organ of the governing party. The National Judicial Council has appointed people who have the support of the parliamentary majority, i.e. independence or independence have been crossed. Right now, you're changing this system, saying it's a democratic package. You are the last group in Poland to talk about democracy. You have created a Constitutional Tribunal for your prayer with a person elected President against constitutional procedure, with three understudy judges who pretend to be adjudicating at the Constitutional Court, and moreover who do not comply with the Constitutional Tribunal rulings. At the moment, you are pretending that whatever you are repairing in common courts, and it is your minister of justice, the Attorney General, who cut out the people who managed the courts well, cut them out without any justification or using false justifications, sent them by fax, e-mail, because he was even afraid to give them such appeals, knowing that they were harmful. This bill can't be improved. This law, as I said yesterday, is only suitable for one place to be directed - to a shredder, therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes a motion to reject this draft law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the second... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u298	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I wanted to present our position on Print Act No. 2389 and after the procedure - No.2441. I will try to present our position, not in the legal language, but in the human language. What is this war for, ladies and gentlemen? What's the deal with this fight? Well, when all these laws - about the KRS, the system of common courts and the Supreme Court - were badly processed, they had gaps. And what does it turn out to be today? Today it turns out that we have such a situation that the Supreme Court cannot act, and neither can the Supreme Court, because if the Supreme Court does not act, it will not appeal to the Supreme Court. Then the situation is blocked. We have these positions here... I'm gonna break it into two pieces. The State of the Platform - you are right that these things go beyond the scope of the Act, that it should not be so procededed, but to me these are substantive matters, hence we have a dilemma as to how to behave in this matter, about which we are about to do. On the other hand, as for Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz in particular - I am sorry to say this, I am sorry to have to mention you by name - unfortunately, this is an impossibility, total impossibility of work and repetition of the same arguments, still the same. This is, you know, torpedoing the committee's work. On a good note, I am surprised that until today the chair of the committee of justice has not submitted a proposal to the committee of ethics in order to interfere with the work of the committee, because such a proposal should have been made long ago. [[Court of State.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have this situation. On behalf of Kukiz, 15... On the one hand, we believe that this law does not meet the legal requirements, but on the other hand - and here consistently, according to how we voted on the candidates for the National Court Register - we cannot lead to the destruction of the body which is bound by the Constitution, because at this moment we are destroying the state ourselves. You think - and there is a fundamental difference between us - that so far the justice system has worked well that the judges were very good - if not good, it is certainly very good. We believe that the justice system has been working badly for years, and this collapse is getting worse, and it's getting worse for a variety of reasons. It is a pity that you did not take our initiatives when we talked about voting by a majority of 2/3 of the votes on the election of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which you also mention here. You forgot to tell us - you only apologized - that you chose us ahead of the Constitutional Tribunal judges. You have to be logical and loyal on both sides. Amendments that are made, and in particular those that give a vote to one judge taking part in the election of the Judges, or those referring to the new composition of the College of the District Court... Here I almost completely agree with the Platform and with the position of other Members that this could lead to such a situation that the judge, with one vote, will be a member of the assembly. I am a little surprised that these amendments, which were substantive amendments, did not hear from the members of the Justice Committee, but I think - and here, in turn, I have to say this - that it is not possible to proceed under the conditions in which it is proceeding. It's the same thing 100, 150 times, and it's the same thing. I also do not understand why this is complicated: you insist that you convene the first meeting of the National Judicial Council - while we are already talking about it, although this is out of the law at all - maybe the judge or the judge at rest, as if the oldest member of the National Judicial Council could not do so, like the senior marshal convenes the first meeting. Then I'll honestly admit that I don't know what our position will be. We're gonna be discussing this, which is why, ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr President, the pressure makes sense.]] Yes, ma'am, but unlike you and me, Madam, we do not cause destruction, we just want the constitutional body to function - whether you like it or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u300	Thank you. Now Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you hadn't broken the same constitutional rules all the time, then the opposition still didn't have to reprimand you. If you think you can be deceived by this law to any extent by the European Union, then you are wrong. Come to your senses. Really come to your senses, because the consequences for Poles and Poles can be very, very serious and you will have to retreat from unconstitutional regulations again. Today, unfortunately, it is in your hands, in your hands, in the hands of those politicians who have already devastated the standards of law in the Polish state, that there are all tools to protect Poland from, as the Ombudsman said, falling into a period of darkness. Three simple steps are needed for this. First, the removal of doubles from the Constitutional Tribunal, second, the depoliticisation of the National Judicial Council and the selection of the judges of the KRS by judges, thirdly, the cessation of the application of the law on staff purgatory in the Supreme Court. These three actions are necessary at the moment to be able to talk about the restoration of the standards of law in Poland. None of these amendments that you are proposing contain. What were you supposed to destroy in the justice system in Poland, you already destroyed it. Now, in fact, you're proposing to install a fire alarm on the still smoking ruins of the justice system. And what do you think the Union will take for a good coin? You have already changed more than 170 presidents and vice presidents, 10 of the 11 governors of the appeals courts are listed - the Minister of Justice did it without any restrictions - and now you are introducing seeming difficulties. College opinion? Non-binding. KRS' opinion? I mean, that's where the PiS nominees are. They certainly won't object to their friend Zbigniew Ziobra. It is difficult not to see that the purpose of these changes is really the possibility of intimidating judges, because it is the President of the Court who may initiate disciplinary proceedings against judges in matters which the Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court will be considering, to which the judges will be elected in full by the new political National Court - who will receive 40% of the judges. higher salaries just for being available to the current authority - the Chamber in which these cases will be settled during the justified absence and the defender, and the defendant. The PiS simply tries to establish a whip on judges who rule against the party line. And it's hard to call it a really different process than just an inquisition process. This novel also makes no difference with regard to the integrity of judges. In the case of universal courts, this will be decided by the politicalised National Courts, in the case of the Supreme Court, it will be the President's decision to countersign the Prime Minister. You can see there's a power war going on in PiS. According to recent amendments, it is Minister Ziobro, and not President Duda, who will play the most important role in deciding who will retire after reaching a certain age. Although it will be decided by Mr Kaczyński at the end of the day in the event of a dispute, it has nothing to do with the independent justice system or any compromise with the European Union. It is crazy, however, that the President and the Minister will be assessing the decisions of the juror of the Social Security Office. Once there was a great linguist, now the PiS is giving us a great doctor who can question medical opinions. And the doctor will, yes, but the doctor of the law or the master's. Discrediting Polish parliamentarianism is as usual the express and thoughtless process of law. And now you've really beaten yourselves. After the first reading, you put in the novel a completely different law, in the Law on the Supreme Court, in the Law on the System of Universal Courts. All of a sudden, you put in a bill on the National Judicial Council. Then why didn't you just put in a VAT bill or a water law? But what's the point of this change anyway? Its sole purpose is simply to appoint a specific person who will be in favour of you and who will convene the first meeting of the National Judicial Council. Just name this person by name, don't play hide-and-seek. You lead Poland into a black legal abyss and do not even try to reach an agreement with the Union. Unfortunately, the Poles will pay for this, because, as your fellow Members say: we will survive, we will survive. I have no doubt about it, because you will award yourselves prizes, because you will use your son in the Treasury companies. But what about millions of Poles and Poles who will lose very specific money from the EU budget? You just don't care about them. We therefore apply for the rejection of this law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u302	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Until last night, the bill had a much shorter name. Suddenly, applicants wanted to extend the amendment not only by further legislation but also by further legislation, which was beyond the scope of substantive legislative work. This is a serious procedural defect which may result in the annulment of the contested law, as the Constitutional Tribunal has already proven many times in the past. Strangely enough, the parliamentary majority suddenly intends to repeal the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4). It provides that the term of office of the elected member of the Board shall expire before the end of his term of office if a judge is appointed to another judicial position, with the exception of the appointment of a regional court judge to serve as a district court judge, a military garrison court judge to serve as a military judge to the district court or a regional administrative court judge to serve as an NSA judge. As I understand it, a normal promotion for members of the current KRS Law and Justice does not provide. After all, the promotion from the district court to the district court is what you need for your promotion to the Supreme Court. Just congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen, on the intention of future human resources policy in the justice system. It would seem that the Minister of Justice is responsible for administrative supervision of common courts. Then why should the president decide who's going to be the judge and who's not? All the systemic changes provided for in this Act show the dyletance of the first class. The age of compulsory transition to the resting state of the Supreme Court judges in the presidential project is the lowest in history. Until 90 years ago, the judges of this court could rule up to 75 years old, and the average life expectancy of Poles was more than 20 years less than now. Take a look at the law on judges over the age of 65. The president's gonna wonder twice if anyone's gonna be a judge or not. That is why the Polish state and its organs are not working, because artificial procedures are being created and they are constantly changing. If procedures in surgery were to change as quickly in medicine, then fear would lie on the operating table, not knowing if the surgeon already knows how to perform the procedure in a new way this time, or whether he does not know it yet. It was decided to clarify the reasons for the President's consent to the extension of the working time of a judge who was 65 years old - the interests of the judiciary or an important social interest. They sound familiar. Exactly the reasons for the interest of justice in this matter were used in the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland on the system of common courts - note - from 1928. This resulted in the removal of judges who were still able to rule, but not very pleasant to the then power camp, or Sanitation Camp.This provision from the last decade of the interwar period was very pleasing to the communists, and was in force until 1950. In the middle of a period called Stalinism, they decided to abolish it. Who would have thought that the idea of such regulation in the 4th Polish Republic would be revived? What was the idea of yesterday's piss buddies? The president will be able to protest without justification. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think Bierut himself would have thought of that. PSL Club - UED is against this law. I'm sure we won't support her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u304	Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Act on the Supreme Court, prints Nos 2389 and 2441. The draft law submitted concerns amendments to the three laws which are crucial for the proper functioning of the judiciary. After the implementation of the changes in the functioning of the justice system, it is clear that some of them already have positive effects. We are talking about implementing the principle of random assignment of cases or strengthening the principle of independence of judges by prohibiting the transfer of judges to another department without their consent. The effects of the remaining changes should still be waited for, but for now it can be said that the direction chosen is the right one. Applicants propose to adopt new rules in several areas. Firstly, a two-step consultation procedure is envisaged when the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Court are dismissed with the participation of the College of the competent court and the National Council of Courts. It is worth noting, however, that if applicants, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, are concerned by the two-step nature of this procedure, they should clarify in the wording of the Act that, after a negative opinion has been expressed by the College of the Court, the Minister of Justice shall submit to the National Council of the Court of Justice his intention to dismiss the President or Vice-President of the Court for an opinion, rather than, as is included in the draft law, he may present. Otherwise, the second degree of procedure may be illusory, entirely dependent on the discretionary decision of the Minister of Justice. As explained by the justification, this was not the intention of the applicants. Secondly, applicants shall amend the procedure for consenting to further judgment by a judge of the General Court after he has reached 65 years of age. The objective criteria of the interest of the judiciary and of an important social interest were applied as a basis for the judge's consent to further judgment after the age of 65, as well as the power to express that consent to the constitutional body, the National Judicial Council. In the case of the Law on the Supreme Court in respect of judges ending 65 years, the draft provides for a revised procedure for consenting to further ruling on a conditional obligation for the judge to make a declaration of his willingness to continue to occupy his post and to provide a certificate stating that he is capable of performing his duties as a judge and that he is not opposed by the President of the Republic of Poland. Thirdly, the bill provides, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, for the standard age to be equal to 65 years of retirement of judges of common courts for men and women, while allowing judges of women to choose to retire after the age of 60. Fourthly, it is extremely important, in terms of the smooth functioning of the constitutional organs of the State, that the amendment contained in the draft on which the Committee on Justice and Human Rights was working is an amendment to the Act on the National Council of Courts concerning the convening of the first meeting of the Council of the new term of office. The Commission has also proposed a solution for the Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle. We are talking about an alternative path to convening the first sitting when it is not possible for any reason to convene this meeting by the first President of the Supreme Court. The first meeting may then be convened by the oldest member of the council who is a judge or a retired judge, possibly as stated in the article added. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, the next oldest members of the council being judges or retired judges. This is an optimal solution, practiced in the event of the first meetings of the bodies of many other institutions when the oldest member of the body does so. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the United States, a judge caught stealing his neighbor's underwear was arrested, carried out in handcuffs, condemned and thrown out of the state of justice as the one who permanently and irretrievably lost his qualifications for ruling. And in Poland the Supreme Court against a judge caught stealing parts from a drill has ruled a disciplinary penalty reducing his remuneration by 20%. Doesn't that judge lose his jurisdiction? Will this judge be able to judge cases where the defendant will be responsible for such crimes? This example shows the state in which the Polish judiciary is in. Changes are necessary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u306	Thank you very much. Ten ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. She is the eleventh Member. I'm shutting down the voice mailing list. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba of the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute, of course. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PiS played such a game with the European Commission: Lord God's candle and the devil's ogres. On the one hand, he is trying to please the President, and on the other hand he is trying to satisfy not so much the European institutions as to show them his openness. But this new role, which was taken by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Chaputowicz, is simply a mission impossible. This isn't gonna work, and you're gonna come out on these projects like Zabłocki on soap. To put it simply, I feel that these are the last moments of an independent judiciary in Poland. This yesterday's indictment concerning the National Judicial Council, which is that a particular judge, a retired judge, Mr Wiesław Johann, would convene the first meeting of the National Judicial Council, is an example of how you treat the law in an instrumental way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of legislative gymnastics do you do? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u308	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The authors of the project claim that the laws that you introduced in the December laws fully guarantee the rule of law and implement the constitutional principle of three divisions of power. If these rules were in line with the Constitution, the European Commission would not initiate a procedure to check the rule of law in our country. This bill won't change anything, it'll still be against the constitution. Minister, yesterday you said you didn't know exactly how many court presidents had been deprived of their jobs. You said 120, but you don't know exactly, so I'm asking you to indicate exactly how many court presidents have been released because I've heard that this number is already over 130. And another question: Who supported the judges to the National Court Register? Because Minister Ziobro, sending word to the FOR, who supported these judges, sent blank cards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what this endorsement looks like, that these are blank cards? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u310	Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u311	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill was supposed to correct the incorrect law on the Supreme Court, the law on the system of common courts, but it was just a pretense. Or how else to put it. 27 § 5a in this project, according to which the negative opinion of the college for the Minister of Justice does not bind him? He may address the National Courts Council and there the negative opinion will be binding only if he receives as many as 2/3 of the votes, but in the case of a positive opinion, a simple majority is sufficient. In addition, if the National Judicial Council has not taken a decision within 30 days, the Minister shall not be bound at all and may take his decision to revoke. How can it be concluded that this is a fairly prepared law if the College of the District Court does not give the need for equal representation [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the courts? This is a bill that's gonna make things better? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This reform has nothing to do with improving the quality of courts or speeding things up. This is simply revenge against those who hate politicians who want to fight their political rivals. Minister Ziobro, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, all in one person, gives personal orders to all prosecutors throughout the country. And how did he use it? Well, he wants to accuse Sławomir Neumann of politics. He canceled almost 200 presidents and vice presidents. Now he wants to prosecute, now he wants to print sentences so he can punish the politicians of the Civic Platform just because he can't win fair. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Things like this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In recent months the courts in Poland have experienced a real horror, especially where the Minister of Justice has made a general exchange of presidents, vice-presidents of courts, without informing about the reasons for their decisions. The forms of appeal not yet known in civilized countries were also shocking to local communities. People can judge that. Will the changes in the procedure for dismissing the Presidents contained in the submission allow a return to particularly conflict-related matters and re-evaluate the changes made? That's one thing. Secondly, is it in line with the principles of good legislation that two separate projects amending the Supreme Court Act are being examined at one meeting of the Sejm and does it guarantee the high quality of the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u316	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that these few laws, which are now being presented in Parliament, are aimed at placating the European Union, concluding an agreement, but I do not think you have read the recommendations that the European Union has made and which would restore the independence of the judiciary in Poland. Namely, there is a talk about the depoliticization of the National Judicial Council. There's no depolitics. We are talking about the inexorability of judges, which is what our constitution is talking about, which is that judges are inexorable. However, the removal of judges is maintained, but it is simply entrusted to other authorities of the State. It is said that the Supreme Court judges will not be removed, but the judges will be removed. There is talk of restricting the discretionary power of the Minister of Justice over the Presidents of the Courts. It's also just shuffling things, and there's no such thing as change. Still, what you're proposing leaves a politically dependent judiciary and doesn't meet [[♪ The bell ♪]] those expectations of the European Commission, which were included in the recommendations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u318	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Should it be necessary to complicate the article on convening a meeting of the National Judicial Council by stating in the draft law that the first meeting of the KRS is convened by a judge or a judge at rest? Why can't the first meeting of the KRS be convened by the oldest member of the KRS? It would be clear and transparent, as it is in the case of the first meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. He calls them and opens the oldest Member of the Polish Parliament - Marshal of the Senior. Let us strive for normality, so that a good change is a good change for all Poles without any complications, as it is today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What the PiS call reform is coming to, we all know. Of course, it is a process of devastation of the Polish judiciary, which is aimed at completely subjugating PiS to the entire judicial system. It was already mentioned that they were to be state officials, i.e. PiS officers. And such a vivid example as this, apart from the actual process of dismissing the Presidents of the courts, is what is happening in Krakow at the moment, since yesterday. [[Voice from the courtroom: In the court of appeal.]] District Court, appeal. Another trial from the prosecutor's appeal, Zbigniew Ziobra. The case concerns the trial of doctors who treated Zbigniew Ziebra's father 12 years ago. And, of course, it's about intimidating the judges, dismissing the judges just to make a judgment like that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whatever yobro wants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the ubiquitous chaos in the process of examining this project, about the amendments written on the knee, which appeared after the first reading of this project, and, of course, go beyond the scope of the submission and were obviously introduced at the last moment. Once again, there will be an objection of non-compliance with the law-making procedure, and again there will be an objection of non-compliance with the constitution. My question is: What must happen in order for you to understand that we are in a special place, which should be an example and a model for the application of all procedures, a place of dignity and seriousness, because here we create the everyday life of our citizens? Will you ever understand that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have listened to the statements of the rapporteur of the committee, we have listened to the speech of the Member representing the Club of Law and Justice, and it can be said calmly that we have not yet had a cabaret form of speech in the Seym, like this one, in particular Mr Milewski. The whole world sees, the whole of Poland sees, thousands of Poles have gone out into the streets of Polish cities and towns, protesting against what you do and how you destroy the judiciary, and you from the Seym Council say you are introducing a democratic package for the judiciary. You're kidding me. [[As in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure,]] Because either you should apologize for those words right now, or you will continue to uphold this destructive policy. At yesterday's Justice Committee meeting, we asked hundreds of questions, and most of them didn't get any answers, so on the occasion, I ask the authors of this amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Piebiak, because we all know that these documents are being produced in the Ministry: How much, Minister, have you received awards for preparing...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u326	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u327	...the destructive judicial laws? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the process of making changes to the justice system in Poland, you regularly refer to the history of the judge, who in a distraction carried out a screw from the store. Even today we have heard this story from this speaker once again. You give this story as an example that personal changes in the Polish justice system are necessary. In the meantime, what are you doing? You introduce a judge to the KRS with a disciplinary judgment for taking additional employment without the permission of the superior officer, also with the opposition of the President of the court in which he worked. This clearly shows that you are not concerned with quality in the case of candidates, their integrity and absolute compliance with the law, but simply about submission to the party interest of the PiS. Today you prove that exactly the same instrumentally [[♪ The bell ♪]] You treat changes in the law that you only want to introduce the law to pursue the political interests of the PiS, not to serve the Polish people and Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u331	...or improved certain processes and procedures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u332	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not all of these questions concerned the Ministry of Justice. The projects are parliamentary, but, of course, I will try to answer as best as I can, even though these questions were partly unrelated to the subject of the presentation presented in the High House. Mr Truskolaski. You want to know? There you go: 76 presidents, 73 vice presidents, High Izbo, cancelled in special mode. You can count it. [[150 people.]] Excellent. That was the first... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about appeals since the beginning of the term of office?]] That wasn't the question. You could have asked them, my fellow Member. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But don't be shy.]] I don't have those numbers on me, so I wouldn't want to mislead the High House. Who signed the letters of support? I think that where, however, the attitude of respect for the rules in force should be shown in the High House, and the rules in force do not provide for disclosure of the data of those who have supported the judges who are candidates for the National Judicial Council. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And I have a different opinion of BAS.]] [[The Information Access Act.]] Of course, members of the High House have the right to a different interpretation. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about BAS?]] I present such an interpretation, hence such, and not another, answer, although, for God's sake, I do not know how it relates to the subject of the presentation. [[Please don't bring God into this.]] Mrs Dolniak asked why a qualified majority, i.e. 2/3, was needed to block the President's appeal by the National Judicial Council. Well, as has been said in this House many times, the Minister of Justice is responsible for the administration of the courts. Management, administration is not a matter of judicial independence, it is a matter of managerial efficiency. Therefore, who is responsible, also politically, for the functioning of the judiciary in Poland, cannot be overly embarrassed when it comes to taking human decisions, otherwise we have no one to be responsible for how the courts are managed. It seems that a qualified majority is appropriate to block a possible motion from the Minister of Justice. Hence, as I understand it, the requirement of such, and not of another, most of them were included in the project. Why is there no balance in the colleges of district courts according to the submission? Well, as far as colleges of district courts are concerned, and perhaps not all Members are aware of this - I recommend you to note the Law on the system of universal courts - that is, contrary to the name of the College, which has as much competence in both the regional courts and the district court. The number of judges of regional courts is several times higher, both at general level and in each particular judicial district, than the number of judges of the district court. Therefore, in accordance with the democratic principle, it is desirable that the number of members of the college be democratic, so that the number of members of the college corresponds to the number of judges who may be subject to certain decisions of the colleges. Therefore, it is not strange, and it seems very desirable... As submitted in the College, it may happen that there will be more judges of the regional courts than judges of the district court. There is nothing wrong with this, these are the judges on whose shoulders there is a number of judges' duties in Poland. They should be duly represented in any possible judicial authority, including the College of the District Court. Mrs Gajewska claims that the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro wants to accuse everyone. Party buddy, I understand, accuses. It's not Minister Ziobro who's accusing because I haven't seen a situation like this that the Attorney General is accusing, but, of course, the prosecution is a hierarchical institution, and no one's questioning it. It was also a hierarchical institution under your rule... [[Not political.]] ...and the Attorney General also had certain powers over his subordinate prosecutors. And what you say about printing judgments... I hope you just don't realize what you're saying, otherwise it would be a disgrace. [[How's Judge Sovul?]] Come on. Mrs Czernow. Will a change in the procedure for dismissing the Presidents allow some controversy to be clarified? I don't know if he'll mind. Of course, the question of whether the President should be dismissed or not may be a question of dispute and the assessment of the Minister of Justice does not have to be shared by the dismissed President or by Members of Parliament's opposition. It's normal for us to have a discrepancy in our grades. Will any presidents appointed by this Minister of Justice be called off? It could happen. [[How power will change.]] This is politics. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is politics? It was supposed to be justice, not politics.]] The President may be appointed and dismissed by the same minister. If he fails, he's mismanageable, he could be canceled. It is obvious, that is the management, that if someone checks out, then he stays in office, if he doesn't work out, then he is dismissed from this position. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It takes the bonus and leaves the station.]] Mr Święcicki mentioned the European Commission's recommendations, asked whether they would be fulfilled by the adoption of this law or not. He says he doesn't. We are talking about a specific project, its disadvantages and advantages - here, of course, we differ - not the recommendations of the European Commission. These are other things, this is not a parliamentary process, these are certain negotiations, discussions, evaluations under Article. 7. [[And this is what Mrs Pavłowicz said.]] In my view, this project is a project that cleans things up, meets the expectations also expressed by the European Commission, and whether enough and whether this assessment is correct or not, of course it can be discussed. [[Mrs Pavłowicz even talked about blackmail.]] Let's see how this ends. Mr Rometsky of the Kukiz club15 asked whether it was necessary to complicate the rules in such a way that it was the oldest aged judge, the retired judge, that perhaps it would be better if he were simply the oldest member of the National Council of Courts. It seems, however, that it was necessary to complicate these rules a little bit for one basic reason, that all recommendations concerning the role of judicial councils within the framework of the system of the rule of law say that the judicial board should, however, be a council dominated by judges, more than 50% its composition should be represented by judges. In the composition of the National Judicial Council, although all its members are equal, judges play a particular role. It therefore seems appropriate to restrict this competence to judges - and to classify it in relation to the objective criterion of age - rather than to grant it to all members, among whom are also active parliamentarians from both the coalition and the opposition side. Hence such, not another wording of the recipe. The question of Mr Lassota is that we are dealing with intimidation, the dismissal of judges. Yesterday, at this point, I explained that no judges were called off, appealed, and would not appeal. The appeal of the presidents has taken place, we have already discussed this, but this particular time has passed to obtain what the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro wishes. [[And how do prosecutors come to them?]] The Ministry of Justice takes the view that the fundamental constitutional value is the independence of the judiciary, and therefore what a particular entity wants is one thing, and that, as an independent court decides, the other thing. The EPPO shall be a party to the proceedings and the decision shall be taken by the court and shall be subject to instant review. Sometimes it is a matter of cassation, it also comes to the Supreme Court and no one wants to change these civilization and constitutional principles, and certainly nothing such a High House will find in this project. The question of chaos when writing this project, when submitting amendments. This is an assessment that I personally disagree with, but it is not a matter of a government representative reviewing the actions of the High House. I do not see any chaos here, but the Member may have a different opinion. Mr Myrcha asks how much I have received for preparing these changes. I must upset you because I did not receive any prize, and I have already written back to your colleague Mrs Pomaska about this, that you should not ask me... [[Pomasce.]] Pomasce. ...how many awards I got because I didn't get any at all, so I'm not able to answer. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because the Disciplinary Chamber is waiting, right?]] Good. And Mrs Hennig-Kloska said that there was a judge in the National Judicial Council who had a disciplinary decision. Firstly, I do not know how this relates to the subject matter of this submission, and secondly, it was the High House which made the choice, not the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u334	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting your Marshal Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u335	Thank you very much, Marshal, for giving the floor, because I must refer to the Minister's statement. I'm sure everyone remembers how we debated the Law on Court Directors in this plenary room. Then it was said that they would be court managers to do what? To relieve the presidents so that they no longer manage and be court managers, they only support judges in matters relating to case law, procedure, i.e. I want them to take care of this range. [[And PIT settlements.]] Today we hear a completely different translation, so where is the truth? What's the minister doing with two-thirds of the votes? So he can manage the presidents? Every bill, every bill, is another argument. Please, Minister, remind yourself: it is the directors of the courts that are to be the managers of the courts. There's an irregularity somewhere. Presidents are to be independent to the extent that the State [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to subdue them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u336	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. [[And the applicant doesn't want to? It was all said, wasn't it? Nothing to add, nothing to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I wanted to draw attention to two points in order to comment on the committee's report. Firstly, the proposal proposes - I say all the time - that it is not a proposal adopted - that the Minister of Justice should consult the College of the Court in the procedure of dismissing the Presidents. I would like to draw attention to this because there was such a request, there was a remark that you, too - here I am thinking of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz and Mr Budka, but also of all the honourable colleagues - have emphasized many times, so it seems that this is a thing that is also important for you. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is your interpretation, we disagree with it.]] The second thing I would like to draw attention to - also during our discussions on the issue of changes in common courts was this remark - it is that it is not the Minister of Justice, but the National Council of the Court of Justice consents to remain a judge to judges who have completed 65 years of age. And it was also regulated in this law. When I submitted my report, I said that the discussion was lively and even turbulent at the committee meeting, but in this respect I would add that it seems that the effect is constructive, expected even by this most indisputable opposition. And I think this is such a positive signal for the public, too, that we are able to develop regulations that are acceptable and were also expected by the opposition. But at the same time, it is important for the public to know that the reform of the justice system will continue because this reform is expected and is needed in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u338	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (prints No 2291 and 2291-A). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft of the government's novel on personal and corporate income tax. This is a novel which, in principle, gives additional privileges to taxpayers related to their settlement for the current year, and this is quite a point change which, it seems, is needed, perhaps necessary and concerns a number of cases. First of all, we amend the PIT law to include depreciation write-offs in the tax costs from the donations acquired and the decline of fixed assets and intangible assets. This change is a solution to the demands of family businesses, which have recognised that certain provisions of the current legal situation are asymmetrical and require a certain level playing field. The second topic discussed in the novel, the second amendment is the redrafting and extension of the catalogue of activities entitled to the costs of obtaining 50% revenue, so-called. contract for work with the transfer of copyright. The vast majority of these additional privileges seem to have been interpreted from the existing legal situation, but it also seems that by proceeding over this novel, part of these interpretations can be eliminated, simply writing a wider catalogue of these professions. Another amendment is the introduction in the PIT Act of tax exemption of income from aid financed from the Police. This is a change quite obvious and consistent with similar records for other services. We have changes in the taxation of winnings earned in slots, card games, dice games, cylindrical games run by legitimate players. It is also a change that evens out the tax burden of games or winnings for a number of types of games. We have an amendment to the PIT Act on the regulation of taxation of income obtained from the disposal of shares acquired under the so-called. incentive schemes. It also seems that today's legal situation can also be interpreted in this spirit, but in response to the concerns of the business community and advisors, we clarify this provision. Another very important and expected change is called. exemption in the PIT Act and in the CIT Act on old loans surrendered, so-called An old wallet. This is a change expected by many people who benefit from cooperative housing, which is expected to have old loans cancelled this year, which in today's legal situation could result in taxation of these values. This change is quite important financially and I will say more about the budgetary consequences of this change. The next area that we are modifying includes a change in the wording of the CIT Act on tax consequences related to the contribution to the company. Again, it seems to be a little bit of a rule that can be interpreted from today's legal situation, but we do decide, despite the interpretation already given this year, to this change, so as to overcome any speculation and unnecessary questioning of our position. The draft law also contains a novelty of the provisions concerning the minimum property tax. The current legislation has been brought forward with a complaint to the European Commission, after clarification from our side on the purpose of these provisions, the European Commission has recognised that our provisions are in their essential part justified and correct, while we have come to the findings of modifying these provisions for both the current year and 2019, which in principle seal the specific mechanism and make it even better for this aggressive optimization, which has stood at the beginning, for the preparation of these provisions at the beginning. These changes, which are agreed upon and included in this project, tend to extend the catalogue of real estate covered by this special tax. It seems that from our perspective, the primary coverage of commercial facilities and office buildings with this tax was sufficient because we saw there the most common manifestations of aggressive optimization. It seemed to us that this is the correct mechanism for addressing this problem or preventing this problem, but nothing prevents, according to the perspective of the European Commission, the treatment of all types of real estate equally covered by this minimum tax also other real estate, while maintaining a very high threshold, as we believe, of PLN 10 million concerning the value of capital invested in those properties, which is still causing this minimum property tax obligation. We are also introducing such a new institution, a procedure that causes the minimum tax to actually fall into this need to reduce aggressive optimization, but allows taxpayers who are transparent to act in an objective and market manner to avoid the negative effects of this minimum tax. It is a very fair and quite clear mechanism. If, colloquially speaking, the taxpayer has overinvested and this is evidently due to the financing agreements it has concluded, its contracts to achieve the revenue from the rental of the property, if it objectively presents to us its tax situation, which will generate a tax lower than that resulting from the mechanism of the special minimum tax, then we will of course recognise this right and this minimum tax will not apply and will be refunded. We are also introducing a clause that is professionally called GAAR, a clause that makes it difficult to circumvent these new regulations so that they can act preventively and pro-budgetally. So that I present this draft to the High House. Of course, we're waiting for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u340	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, prints No 2291 and 2291-A. The amendments introduced primarily modify the regulations which began to apply from 1 January 2018 on the basis of the amendments made to that Act in October 2017, in respect of fixed assets and intangible assets acquired by inheritance or donations. In the event of acquisition by means of a fall in fixed assets and intangible assets, the Act shall revert to the rules in force before the date of entry into force of that amendment. On the other hand, in the case of funds acquired through donations, the project introduces the principle of continuation by the gifted depreciation write-offs made by the donor. This means that the gifted will not be deprived of the possibility of making depreciation copies, but will accept them in the value previously defined by the donor. The bill also provides for the exemption of income obtained from financial assistance received from the Police by persons protected by it under the Law on the Crown Witness and the Act on Protection and Aid to the Victim and the Witness. The exemption will also cover other similar benefits, which are paid in connection with the so-called benefits. the institution of a small witness as described in the Penal Code Act, the application of which often generates the need to protect and assist the beneficiary. The government in this amendment also wants to address the problem of economic and systemic transformation related to the market share of housing loans from the 1990s. It therefore adds in the PIT and CIT Act an exemption from taxation of an amount covering the remission of debt related to the existing housing loan under the State aid law. Such a solution will help to clarify the issue of loans so-called. An old wallet. The bill will also ensure uniform treatment of participants of legal games on slots, card games, dice, cylindrical games and bingo games regardless of the player who organizes the game. According to the proposed solutions, the total income tax exemption from natural persons will be subject to winnings in the above mentioned. games. The amendment to the PIT Act also includes a change that cleans and adds areas for which 50% of revenue costs can be applied. In view of the fact that the added provision raised doubts as to interpretation among the creative professions presented, it was proposed to redefine and add areas in the field of construction engineering, translation and computer games. The draft amendment to the CIT Act proposes provisions that clearly indicate that the tax is not subject to financial and non-monetary contributions made to companies. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the positive impact of the changes on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and many individuals, the changes presented in the government project will be supported by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u343	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's print project 2291. This project mainly concerns changes in income taxes introduced by the Law of 27 October 2017. It's not a mistake. This is, in my opinion, an illustration of what a legislative mess we have. In fact, there is no other country in the European Union that amends the law after 2 months of its validity, with effect from 1 January. In addition, this justifies the entry into force of 1 March of the Central Register and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. It's a real scandal. The tax law should be brought into line with the business package that has been adopted, and should be governed by the Introductory Law. Act on Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for Entrepreneur. The absence of this element in this act is such proof and an example of how the work of the Council of Ministers is organized and what is the flow of information between Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Morawiecki within the framework of the then functioning Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance. During the legislative work on this law in 2017, I used the wording that it is the rendering of tax law with thick threads that on the one hand we have the sign of tax sealing, on the other hand - compliance with the directive. Now comes the third element, which is what I didn't expect in life, that is, to do what we've just done. In fact, the minimum tax illustrates this perfectly. We have repeatedly pointed out in the course of work in October last year that this is a law written on the knee that the consultation process was insufficient. Today you admit it, even in the explanatory memorandum of the law, and all you had to do was listen or listen to the opposition's comments. However, we certainly would have avoided this compromise. Couple words on the most important changes, e.g. on the inclusion in the cost of obtaining income of depreciation write-offs on fixed assets, on intangible assets acquired by inheritance or donation where that acquisition was exempted from inheritance tax and donations. You emphasize that this is supposed to have a positive effect on the activities of micro- and small entrepreneurs, but you forget that this is the restoration of the old rules of the game. So the story about the goat he found -- we put it in first, and then we throw away the success, because it's a relief, we bring out the goat, we go back to the previous solutions. We still have an opportunity to put this on the list of achievements of the PiS government and show how good we are for entrepreneurs. 50% the cost of obtaining revenue - this is, in fact, the extension of the directory of entitled ones, only this does not change its closed, limiting the preference of character and does not dispel all interpretation doubts about the use of non-acute and really undefined concepts. At the same time, this is, in my opinion, the result of a certain lobbying, which is not meaningless here, of the professional groups that are here - and others are not. I am particularly distressed about the issue of training and not including or really restricting teaching activity to only universities, which will affect people's skills, especially in small centres, for example. High school teachers conducting such classes will be excluded from this. A change in the taxation of winnings in some gambling games - here we talked about it in October. Changes, instead of ordering [[♪ The bell ♪]] matter, it's complicated. I can say that this is the result of the lack of a vision of the tax system, because if it were, it would actually be all these collisions when it comes to taxation with different taxes, in this case income tax...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u344	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u345	...and the gaming bill, you could have eliminated it. If this were consulted on the environment, there would be no mistakes. It wasn't just done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u346	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Applause]] Thank you. Autorepair added 2 days ago is twice as long as the bill filed a month ago. First of all, you can actually see here the correction of mistakes made a few months ago. There will be success, because I think almost everyone will support this bill, because it is good, because it patches what was committed earlier. But it is also related to the fact that there may not be enough consultation, maybe we need to lean a little bit more on these subjects, because the bill came into force, it was a few months ago and now it will come back as it was before. These treatments are completely unnecessary, paper is printed without knowing how much, and citizens are upset, because they needlessly have to look for lawyers now, to consult on how to interpret certain records, may also send letters asking for a change of these regulations, because they are simply dead or unreal. So what we're suggesting is that maybe a little bit more time is spent thinking about something, discussing it. You have a lot of smart people in the ministry. Sit down for a little bit longer. Not necessarily then at the last moment, everything is done quickly, through the Seym it also goes through two days. Taxable benefits, a witness to the Crown - as much as possible, but we believe that the State should charge tax on such benefits. And here's the question of this tax for those who create, for artists, for journalists. I see another threat here, because in a moment we'll find that other groups haven't been added. I don't know what the key is here. There's one password: art. But it turns out that interior architecture, sometimes photography and a few other things are also included under art, and it turns out that what comes under art is also classified as something separate. And now the tax office or some court, interpreting these intentions, will have a problem with how to proceed. Either we just type in the art and all the art art is, or we don't know which art plus listed in addition separately, because the same problem is about to appear. There's no detailed computer graphics. Some computer graphics do not consider art as art, and others do. If there are computer games, computer programs, I don't see why there's no computer graphics here. The point is that it's black and white for an official or for a court, so that he can accept it, because otherwise he'll be looking for all sorts of holistic approaches to it, and there's no such approach, there's just one big chaos in what we have mentioned. The direction is good, of course. We were making a bill about increasing this limit, and practically about not being there, and that's okay, but there are examples that are about to be a problem. There is, for example, added audio production and separately audiovisual production. Before that, it was only audiovisual. In a moment, someone's gonna misinterpret it, and it's gonna turn out that if somebody just makes visual production, it's gonna be bad, too. Maybe he won't approach it because it's not mentioned - it's audial and audiovisual. It's so small, it's detailed, but it's important to people who pay those taxes. So maybe it would be worth thinking about a slightly more easy approach for the creators simply. Let's do that so that the creators are fired, without having to replace them, because someone will always be left out and someone unnecessarily added. So the recipe is needed, but we would ask you to systematize what's here, because it's just chaos. And a good question -- depreciation of inheritances, and we will support that as much as possible. One last thing. Here may I quote from the explanatory memorandum: Since the amendment of 27 October 2017 was not intended to achieve this effect, the draft proposes a provision that clearly indicates... So we have another question of interpretation. So you wrote down what you thought, but you didn't write it down in the way you would write it down, because maybe there wasn't enough time, maybe someone was rushing, you had to write it down. And you have to do the same job again now, because maybe the IRS misinterpreted it. Another issue - the interpretation of tax offices itself. If we write the law very widely and sometimes do not specify, then there will be flowers like now, an amendment for the amendment. I wonder if we won't be returning to this bill again this year, because I think there may be other difficult issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, How you create tax law best shows your approach to the economy and entrepreneurship in Poland. You're just making fun of entrepreneurs because you can't sit at a table once, think about how you want to change the law, what purpose you get, how you can't write it properly, and then implement it and ask the entrepreneurs to apply it. You can't imagine that the volatility of the law is just an obstacle to the business economy that operates every day, because every time they have to train themselves from a changing legal environment - they have to train themselves as entrepreneurs and train their employees - and then they have to implement changes in a day-to-day business whose main task is not to follow what the government invents, but to produce, trade, create new jobs, invest and essentially generate indirectly. revenue to the State budget. Finally, start treating Polish taxpayers, Polish entrepreneurs with full seriousness, as they deserve. Finally, start treating them partnerly, creating a good and least variable law. Because what are we really doing today? Today we are updating the wrong bill sealing the tax system, which was adopted only at the end of last year. Of course, there are positive elements, expected by entrepreneurs, such as the restoration of the possibility of depreciation received in the inheritance or in the donation of fixed assets - I do not understand why this possibility was not to be made according to the previous amendment - and the clarification of the rules on taxation of income obtained from the disposal of shares acquired under the so-called. incentive schemes. These are indeed elements that need support, but I completely do not understand how to fix this with regard to the flat-rate cost of creators and artists of 50%. the cost of obtaining revenue - also in the framework of the amendment, which we have quite recently examined in this Seym. Let us remind you that last year the Sejm adopted a bill twice increasing the limit for authors and artists to apply the flat-rate 50% cost of obtaining revenue, but during the parliamentary work on the bill someone did not like something and introduced a catalogue of creative activities subject to a preference for 50% cost. The introduction of this catalogue resulted in the fact that, despite the increase in the limit, some creators lost the right to use preferences at all. For a few weeks you have been preaching that you will do well for artists, and in fact some of the people who create works within the meaning of copyright have done it uphill. The solution that you want to implement today continues to lead to a significant difference in the legal situation of the creators, even though they all create works within the meaning of copyright. After all, we have laws that regulate it. Why cannot tax law be consistent with copyright? This creates only doubts, legal gaps and confusion of law, because in fact these artists have identical protection under copyright law and there is no reason for them to be treated differently when it comes to paying taxes or deductibility. What does that mean? Change still doesn't solve the problem. Added among others: such fields as construction engineering, translation, computer games, but a number of creators, as I said, will still be omitted, e.g. creators in the advertising industry, computer graphics, authors of industry studies. I completely don't understand how their work is different from that of other artists. They should also be in this directory. In fact, the catalogue shouldn't be, but it should be consistent with copyright law, but you just can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] create good laws. Another evidence is the self-correction you made to the amendment that was submitted in the Sejm a few days ago concerning the taxation of commercial buildings. That's where you're making boobs again...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u350	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u351	...taxing leases that companies often use for their own purposes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u352	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u353	...by introducing double taxation for commercial real estate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u355	It's absurd to chase absurdity - that's how you make tax law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u356	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, prints No 2291 and 2291-A. The draft of this law is clearly the result of a reckless drafting of draft laws both by the government and by parliamentarians. The proposal refers to and amends the Act adopted on 27 October last year, 2017, with the same title, i.e. the Act passed a few months ago; it has not even been six months. Here, even my predecessors would really like to ask why it is. We pay attention so many times to this unnecessary haste, the understatement of the proposals and comments submitted. In fact, we would like to ask what role the Senate plays in legal legislation, which is to keep its hands on the pulse so that legal bubble does not come out. I'm moving on to substantive changes. One relates to depreciation write-offs from fixed assets and intangible assets acquired through donations or inheritances. In the event of successions, the rule in force prior to 1 January this year is restored, and in the area of donations the provisions adopted by the Act, which I have already mentioned, retain the right to determine the initial value of the property in the value determined by the donor. The next change is to introduce uniform treatment of casino gaming participants regardless of the player playing the game. Here again it is envisaged to restore the tax rules before 31 December 2017. So the rules on both casino games and games organised by a state monopoly company in this respect will be uniform. In addition, income tax exemptions are introduced for financial aid received under the Crown Witness Act and other similar benefits as well as for the redemption of loans, as the Minister said and I will draw this, an old wallet - that is, aid not only for repayment - and for the bank's guarantee premium refunds. The project also provides for, as my predecessors have already stressed, an extension of the scope of tax relief for creators. Here it extends to areas such as construction engineering, translation, computer games, scientific activities and teaching work carried out at the university. It also clarifies the provision for contributions to capital companies and cooperatives. And this self-correction concerning the so-called. minimum income tax. Here some doubts were raised by the European Commission immediately, whether these are provisions concerning unlawful State aid. Thus, after agreement with the European Commission, some changes are made to cover minimum income tax on all buildings, with certain exemptions, among others. excluding residential buildings that are built under social housing schemes, as well as the application of minimum income tax to rented properties and the change of the threshold of 10 million from real estate to taxable persons. The project sets a tax on revenue from the building at 0.035 per cent the tax base for each month. In conclusion, it must be said that it is generally a curiasal project. It restores, after a few months, what has already been done, although the proposed solutions and changes must, of course, be considered beneficial to the parties concerned. Most of them can be applied even backwards, i.e. before the entry into force of the Act of 27 October 2017. It is difficult not to support this project, but I really repeat the appeal also on behalf of [[♪ The bell ♪]] or after previous clubs: there must be some reverence and more respect for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u358	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If you don't... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I signed up.]] ...then I close the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Some of the provisions of this law are designed to clarify the provisions that are intended to eliminate doubts. Good, better late than never. Let me just remind you that they are only for a short time, and we are discussing the revision of these issues today. Therefore, I have a short question: Couldn't the rules be prepared immediately in such a way that there was no doubt about the interlab... interpretation? Oh, my God, honey, I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u360	Don't be nervous. Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Every change in tax law is misunderstood, especially by business. Of course, it may not be misunderstood if there is some sort of sequencing there. I'd like to put it another way. If we have this kind of economic boom, there's got to be more revenue. Any change in the payment of taxes should be positive, acceptable to the taxpayer. It's hard. I would like to say that I would have a great deal of appreciation for this government if it had taken the issue of tax changes so seriously and changed, for example. double taxation for pensioners and pensioners, because this is the least earning group. I think there would be a balance between income and a smaller take when it comes to pensioners and pensioners. The decision on this double taxation is [[♪ The bell ♪]] very important and expected. Nobody likes double taxation because they paid money once and they have to pay money twice when they get a pension. It's very important, but I think it's a long way from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions regarding the self-correction of amendments that I did not have time to ask before. First of all, why is this an autocorrection if the previous submission of these areas did not move at all? This should be, it seems, a separate amendment and should be a separate seismic printing. But that's the least of the problems. I have two questions. Why is this tax on commercial buildings covered by leased buildings? After all, leasing is most often used for its own purposes, most often used by a company that has a problem with obtaining credit, because leasing is safer simply for the lender, and this taxation will only cause such a situation that these leasings will simply be more expensive, while more expensive leasings will make it difficult for many companies to make investments. Second question: Why are you creating, using your privileged position, countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because you are the regulator of law implementing the law and at the same time a market participant, a privileged situation on the housing market, excluding government and local government programmes from this tax? After all, we talked about the fact that taxation is going to affect rented apartments, which is most often young citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u364	Close to the end, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u365	I'm almost done, Marshal. I'm just gonna finish my thought. On the other hand, this situation will bring this tax to those of our citizens who are usually hit by higher charges because they rent apartments in the commercial market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u366	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paul Gruza to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to specific questions, I would like to address the general comments. It is true that this is a novel, which is presented by the government shortly after the initial draft of the amendments has been adopted, but we must understand that the previous law was one of the biggest amendments to income tax for many, many years, if not from the beginning of the original Act on income tax on legal persons, for example. Therefore, because of the very extensive and complex changes, some areas have been created that have left too much room for interpretation. We are able to manage this type of event with individual interpretations, general interpretations, explanations, however, in response to requests for clarification of the law and limitation of interpretation, we are putting forward in many respects this project, which is half or even more necessary from a legislative point of view. With regard to the charge - such a very graphic one - introduction and removal of goats, I would like to say that it is not true that the rules after our original change and this small novel will not be the same rules and regulations for this area of tax settlement of inheritances and donations in companies, because they close the very important tax gap tolerated by the last two terms, which unauthorizedly enabled double settlement of costs from the same purchases in these types of companies, and it is not true that we are returning to the previous situation. The sum of these changes makes our rules tighter, fairer and better. Now I'm going to go to specific questions. When I asked if it couldn't have been right away, I think I've already given an answer in a way. With regard to the question of double taxation of pensioners, I would like to say that this is very interesting and theoretical, well, an outstanding question because the problem of spreading the tax burden between generations is a very interesting issue. And that's for example. one of the reasons why US-type countries do not want to choose to introduce VAT is because this would result in the accumulated property of pensioners being double-taxed by VAT in a situation where they are starting to spend these pensions. This is a very interesting issue. In this case, however, we are in the process of working on the reform of this income tax system and we will take this note as part of the work. As regards the issue of the self-correction, I would like to say that this is simply an addition to our original proposal. As far as leasing is concerned, I do not know whether this is the place to go into such details, but this is a situation where we simply consider that if we invest in a building that is still leased, hired and made available as property on the basis of another similar contract, this activity should generate minimum income and a minimum tax. Therefore, we do not consider it appropriate to differentiate between clean leases and leases when these agreements are very similar. I would like to remind you that this is a tax on the lessor, not the lessor, as well as the owner of the rented property, and therefore this comment I do not fully understand, perhaps it will be withdrawn after my explanation. As far as the exclusion of social housing is concerned, I no longer remember how it is in the Polish version of the Treaty, but it is a housing resource which is the responsibility of the state or local government units, which may sometimes qualify for this minimum tax. And I want to remind you that this is an instrument that's supposed to seal the system due to aggressive optimization. He is excluded here because we do not look for particularly aggressive tax optimizations from local governments with regard to, for example, TBS. Therefore, because there is no risk of this, en block simply turns it off. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals from prints 2291 and 2291-A to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989 (prints No 2282 and 2381). I would like to ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989. The need to terminate the promotion and mutual protection agreements concluded between the Member States of the European Union is the result of the European Commission's questioning these agreements as incompatible with Union law. The European Commission is therefore considering the initiation of formal proceedings against Poland concerning the non-compliance of such agreements with European Union law. Such formal proceedings of the European Commission are already taking place against countries such as the Netherlands, Austria, Slovakia, Sweden and Romania. For this reason, it is appropriate for Poland to endeavour to terminate this agreement on the basis of a bilateral agreement which would provide for the waiver of the extended term of the agreement. The French Republic is currently not interested in the termination of the above-mentioned agreement with the Republic of Poland, including the above-mentioned clause, so it is appropriate to terminate the agreement in the opinion of the Republic of Poland. According to Art. The contract may be terminated at any time by each Contracting Party with a notice period of 12 months after the expiry of the initial period of 10 years which expired on 10 February 2000. And on the basis of art. 12 investments made prior to the termination of the contract will be protected under that agreement for 15 years after the termination of the contract. At the same time, the Republic of Poland will continue its consultation with the French Republic in order to bring the agreement to an end, together with an extension clause. If such consent is obtained prior to the entry into force of the termination of the Agreement, the Republic of Poland will take action to terminate the Agreement. The termination of the agreement should not have political consequences. The Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Poland and the French Republic, have been invited by the European Commission to conclude the intra-EU agreements. The termination of the agreement will also have no negative social consequences, on the contrary, it should be expected that it will be welcomed by public criticism in Poland of intra-EU agreements and international investment arbitration. The termination of the agreement should also not affect economic relations between Poland and the French Republic. The agreement was concluded at a time when the Republic of Poland was not a member of the European Union. This agreement was intended to attract French investments to Poland. Currently, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary in the Republic of Poland provide foreign investors with a guarantee of the protection of investments with the possibility to enforce their rights on a judicial basis. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2018, adopted unanimously a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in print no. 2282 without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports the Government's submission, which proposes the termination of an international agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic - unfortunately, this name still exists in the text of the agreement - and the Government of the French Republic, concluded on 14 February 1989, on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. The need to terminate this agreement is clear that the European Commission considers this agreement to be unlawful. He has already mentioned to my colleague that under the informal EU Pilot procedure against Poland certain actions of the European Commission have been carried out, but the procedure has not been formally initiated. What objections does the European Commission have? Some of these provisions are in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and others are contradictory. This causes a lot of problems, e.g. the problem of overriding the law. Just as regulations of the European Union cannot be transposed into national legislation, the same applies to the content and standards of the Treaty. On the other hand, when it comes to solving this problem in a holistic way, Poland opts for this to be done on the basis of a multilateral agreement. The Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties offers such opportunities, but unfortunately not all the Member States of the European Union share such reasoning and bilateral attempts must therefore be made to reach an agreement. If France had agreed to this, this agreement could have been bilaterally terminated with France. Of course, Art. The 54th Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties gives this opportunity. However, France refuses to terminate this agreement on the basis of a bilateral agreement, so it must be unilaterally terminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! The debate on the law allowing the termination of the agreement, the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, we are launching a series of laws on which we will proceed and at this meeting, and on subsequent bilateral BIT-type agreements, which are specifically concerned with the promotion and mutual protection of investments which Poland has concluded with other countries before our accession to the European Community. Today, as the rapporteur put it, these issues are regulated by EU law. We also have a clear recommendation from the European Commission that these issues need to be sorted out, and it is good that we proceed to sort these matters out comprehensively with regard to all such agreements. Indeed, the pressure from the European Commission was to implement informal behaviour towards Poland. This is the case with some other countries of the European Union. It is worth not expecting these formal proceedings to be brought into order. The analyses presented specifically to the Act on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic indicate that this should not have negative political, social, economic or financial consequences. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of a procedated bill on the termination of the aforementioned agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter has already been discussed by both the rapporteur and my previous speakers. It is difficult to add something new here, but I feel obliged as a representative of the only constructive opposition to broadcast a little bit on the government, therefore... but I will start with Modern. I wanted to tell my colleague that the current government is a legal successor to the government of the Polish People's Republic, whether we want it or not. [[Tell that to the PiS Member.]] On the other hand, when we actually go back to the subject, High Izbo, of course we would like it to be different, so that it would be through an agreement between states. We are aware that this is a big difference of interest, because France is not interested. French investments in Poland are many times bigger than Polish in France, so France is more interested in ensuring that this double protection of their investments is extended to the maximum. Our interest is exactly the opposite, so I hope that both on this agreement and on all the others that we speak and speak in turn, but we will strengthen our actions, and mostly in Brussels bureaucracy, mainly in the Commission, but that this matter is dealt with somehow at European level in a way that would be a compromise, but that it would shorten the operation of these Sunset Clauses, so that this period would be shorter and there would be no dualism, i.e. the possibility for a possible complainant to use this path, so that there would be no choice but to make it one within the general European system, which, however, we will all agree here, and give the business of each country a sufficient and decent level of protection. These agreements, I mean, not with France, but with other countries, cost us a little. Let me remind you, for example, the famous trouble with one of the investors in our market, let's call it insurance, where behavior cost us billions of dollars. Of course, this is not a disadvantage of these agreements, but of a certain situation that has occurred. In any case, for the sake of legal clarity, I am counting on our government to continue its work in a global, transnational way. I wish this to be done by the government and, of course, as a club, we will support these activities, and we will also vote in favour of this project being supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u377	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The existence of this agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the French Republic is contested by the European Commission because of the non-compliance with European Union law, as is contested by the existence of all other agreements for the promotion and mutual protection of investments concluded between EU Member States. The Court of Justice of the European Union also expressed its opinion on this issue, which, in response to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, stated that the investment promotion and protection agreements were incompatible with Union law. It should also be noted that the conclusion of the agreement took place in a different socio-economic reality. The protection of investment through international arbitration was intended to be a kind of fuse for a foreign investor in an uncertain period of economic transformation. The European Commission has serious concerns that agreements for the promotion and mutual protection of investment, including this agreement and their individual provisions, are in line with or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, and the fundamental principles of European Union law. The European Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes in bilateral investment agreements, which, according to the European Commission, seems to be contrary to the exclusive competence of the courts of the European Union. The termination of the agreement will lead to compliance with European Union law of Polish-French economic relations. At Community level, the termination of the agreement should not have political consequences. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, there should also be no negative social and economic impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u378	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u379	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will of course support this bill because we support Poland's membership in the European Union and all the resulting consequences. Here words have already been made from this stand, that this agreement will not worsen the situation of Polish entrepreneurs, nor generally the Polish economy. Conversely: it will deprive us of any potential problems on the Polish line - the European Commission, which, because of the work of the current team, we have many. I would like to say that Poland and France have traditionally had very good relations. Even the Emperor Napoleon is mentioned in our national anthem, and this is not Napoleon of Żoliborz, of which my venerable colleague Stefan Niesiołowski spoke today, but the true Napoleon of Corsica. Therefore, it seems that this law deserves support. But she too, like every other one that we are going to talk about today, shows and tells us to stop for some reflection, how much Poland has benefited from participating in the European Union. As today, we are a different country than the day on which this agreement was signed in 1989. She was, as was rightly reminded here, still signed with the Polish People's Republic. Today you're talking about tearing down the Palace of Culture and Science, giving back to the Dukes... [[Voice from the room: Sikorski.]] ... The Charitor's box of Queen Bona, if you find it, for PLN 0.5 billion. I only hope that you will not raise your hand to one of the relics of the Polish People's Republic, namely agricultural reform, because your predisposition to nobles and magnates is quite amazing. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] But that has to do with it, sir, and you're not here to judge what I'm talking about because I have the right to speak out of this bleacher. [[Voice from the room: But I think it's right to be stupid.]] Today you have questioned the President of the Republic, you have interrogated the Prime Minister's office today, today you will want to arrest a Member of the Polish Parliament, but you will not dictate to us what to say, because the truth from this stand will tell you and this truth will set us free and will deprive you of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u380	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Circle of Free and Solidarni, the procedated draft agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February, of course accepts. We think it was a different reality. We were at a different political and economic point. We wanted to attract investment, we wanted to show that Poland is a law-abiding country - and it is still a law-abiding country. Therefore, the European Commission rightly shows us that if we have the treaties and agreements adopted which cross, which are contrary to those agreements of 1989, it is necessary to regulate this here. Therefore, we, as a circle of Free and Solidarni, agree to this argument that we have presented. Yes, French investments are quite large. In the explanatory memorandum we read that they amounted to EUR 17 billion in 2016 and Polish at that time in the French Republic - almost EUR 660 million, so it is a big difference. But the French Republic must be aware that Poland, as a country, I stress, secures the interests of investors from France, secures their possible claims and their rights. Poland represents the protection of property in its philosophy and we emphasize it at every step. What also convinces us to proceed over this agreement is that today is a huge barrier to the use of arbitration. He's just very expensive, he's unnecessary. We can do it in our courts and in all this way and in this direction we can go. What I lacked in my colleague's speech, my previous speaker, was that of course this industry, the business came to Poland, but also see where we are today in economic terms. We have to build, we have to bet on Polish business. They do not rule out these investments. The European Union has given us a lot of opportunities, but we have also made a lot of mistakes during the transition. We also allowed similar companies to drain the Polish economy through their hypermarkets and banks. It's a good thing we're changing that philosophy today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u382	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987 (prints No 2283 and 2382). I would like to ask Mr Józef Leśniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. As in the case of the contract subject to the procedure at the previous point, it is appropriate for Poland to endeavour to terminate this agreement on the basis of a bilateral agreement which would provide for the withdrawal of the extended contract clause, as indicated by the European Commission in view of its non-compliance with Union legislation. The Republic of Poland will, of course, continue consultations with the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to bring the agreement to an end, including an extension clause. If such consent is obtained prior to the entry into force of the termination of the Agreement, the Republic of Poland will take action to terminate the Agreement together with this clause. The termination of the agreement should also not have political consequences or social consequences. The termination of the agreement should also not affect economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The agreement was concluded, as was the agreement discussed in the previous point, when the Republic of Poland was not a member of the European Union. Currently, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary in the Republic of Poland also provide foreign investors with a guarantee of protection of investments with the possibility to enforce their rights on a judicial basis. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2018, adopted unanimously a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in the form of print no 2283 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u384	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Katarzyna Czochar, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of our club regarding the governmental draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. This agreement was adopted on support and mutual protection. It still applies today, but it is challenged by the European Commission because of the non-compliance of the agreement with European Union law. The opening of the opening decision was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. the agreement will not adversely affect economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The agreement was concluded at a time when the Republic of Poland was not a member of the European Union and the above mentioned agreement was concluded. The aim of the agreement was to attract Belgian and Luxembourg investments to Poland. Currently, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary in the Republic of Poland provide foreign investors with a guarantee of the protection of investments with the possibility to enforce their rights on a judicial basis. The contract shall be treated in the Polish legal order as an agreement ratified with the prior consent expressed in the law pursuant to Article. Article 24 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Law of 2 April 1997. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club PiS supports the above mentioned. The law and, at the same time, requests the adoption by the High Chamber of the above-mentioned legislation. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u386	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! The termination of the agreement concluded between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion of mutual investment protection was signed in Warsaw on 19 May 1987... The agreement was signed on 19 May 1987 and today's legislative initiative on the termination of the agreement follows the recommendation of the European Commission. This agreement was concluded before Poland entered the European Union, and today the issues concerned are governed by the Treaty law of the European Union. The termination of the above-mentioned agreement is without prejudice to the Polish legal order and will lead to the removal of non-compliance with European Union law as regards economic relations between the Polish-Belgian and the Polish-Luxenburg. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is therefore in favour of the contested bill to terminate this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u389	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to say, as I said, what the appeals courts are discussing and discussing in the courts of first instance. I would like to say that the findings submitted here by the club both PiS and the Civic Platform I want to consider as my own. Then I would very much ask you to indicate that we are open. If the Kukiz Club15 hears good, wise arguments, it can find out. But in order for it not to be so much fun, I, of course, once again call on our government, however, to try to ensure that these issues are dealt with at a transnational level. I would like to remind our government that it is said that you are the head of the European Union, who comes from Poland. Then perhaps Mr. Donald Tusk would be able to do something for his country and help to ensure that these issues are dealt with in a civilised way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u390	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The application of this agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is contested by the European Commission because the agreement is incompatible with European Union law. It is also questioned by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The termination of this agreement, as in the case of the agreement with France, should not have negative political, social or economic consequences, and therefore the Modern supports the termination of this agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u392	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All the arguments have already been put forward and I do not want to repeat that Poland is in the European Union, there is a new situation. I am pleased that Poland is in the European Union. I am very happy about this and I consider the Union a great opportunity for Poland and for Europe. I do not share the view of President Duda, this distinguished statesman who is still learning and believes that the European Union is a new occupation, these are the new partitions of Poland. I'm afraid Mr. Duda will veto it. [[Applause]] So that on this occasion I am asking the President to make this agreement with the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg so that Mr Duda, of course, led by patriotism, because he is not guided by anything else, vetoes. As for the other accompanying comments, it can actually be said that there is nothing to talk about here. This will, of course, facilitate trade, facilitate all that is needed in international relations. Our relations with Belgium are always, traditionally, very friendly. We remember how the Belgians treated Polish emigrants in connection with the November Uprising and World War II. This will all be further developed, based on a healthy economic basis. I would prefer, such a request to Mr.Glinski, of course a great statesman, a patriot and a man who cares about Polish culture, I think that his merits are at least equal to the merits of King Stanisław August Poniatowski in this respect, so that he cares a little about the fact that maybe less books by Leon Degrelle in Poland come out. It's a Belgian aspect. There's been a lot of books lately in bookstores, so maybe if Mr. Gliński wanted to publish some other books... I don't know if he even knows who Degelle was, but let's hope he finds out. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will, it is clear, voted in favour of this proposal. Let us hope that this vote as one of the few will not be controversial. Once again, I ask Mr Duda to reflect on his comments on the European Union, maybe he has read something because he likes to learn and so that he does not speak any more of this nonsense. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u394	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Free and Solidarni Club... [[Voice from the room: Circle.]] ...the circle is in favour of further proceding the bill concerning an agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg... [[But we are not in the Polish People's Republic.]] ...on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. Of course, as we have already argued in the previous point, we do not need legal dualism. We have signed treaties that ensure equal treatment before courts for all investors in the rule of law state of Poland. [[A lie repeated a thousand times becomes true.]] All investments are preserved here. I am convinced in all these points that today's procedures, which are in force, are very expensive and unnecessary. And I would like to remind my colleagues at ZCHN that, of course, Degrelle's books are not good and we should avoid them, but we used to read them in General Pinochet's books. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992 (prints No 2288 and 2383). I would like to ask Mr Józef Leśniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992. All other agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union are challenged, and so is the case in this case - the existence of an agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is contested by the European Union. Similarly, as in the case of previous acts, it is appropriate to terminate that agreement. The termination of this agreement should not entail any political consequences or any negative social impact. The termination of this agreement will not affect economic relations between Poland and the Republic of Cyprus. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2018, adopted unanimously a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in print no. 2288, without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u398	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are looking at a package of laws, which are defined by the European Commission as laws which concern bilateral and internal agreements between the countries of the European Union, but are contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and also to principles such as the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services, and fundamental principles of European Union law, such as the principles of primacy, unity, efficiency and legal certainty of the European Union. Poland has concluded around 60 bilateral agreements of this kind. I think that these issues will be dealt with in a short time, especially on the basis of the article. 59 of the Vienna Convention, according to many participants in arbitration disputes, very costly arbitration disputes, it is possible to terminate these agreements as a whole. There is some kind of consensus in the European Union about this, but unfortunately it is not supported by legal action. Therefore, regarding economic relations between Poland and Cyprus, Poland concluded an economic cooperation agreement with the Republic of Cyprus on 4 June 1992. We want this agreement to be terminated today because, at the time of signing this agreement, both countries were not members of the European Union, as well as because today, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, provide foreign investors with guarantees to protect investment with the possibility of exercising their rights on a judicial basis. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask for this solution. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Indeed, as my previous speaker said, today we are considering four laws of this type. At the next session of the Sejm, we will probably consider the next 11 because we have so much opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think that the political, legal and substantive justification is identical for each of these agreements, and therefore I will allow myself only to conclude that the termination of the agreement concluded between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Warsaw on 4 June 1992, results from the recommendation of the European Commission, the need to adapt the law in force in Poland to European regulations. This is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the bill being drafted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another agreement, we are talking about them all one at a time, as my previous speaker has already said. Next time we will try to shorten this in a way, which will be more practical. Our club, of course, with pain, will support these efforts. We are still hoping that this issue will be dealt with in a cross-state manner so that this issue can be resolved at European level by a single decision. Then our club will support this bill. At the same time, I ask Mr Niesiołowski not to talk about St. Barnabas or oh, I don't know, Zenon of Kition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u404	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This agreement between Poland and Cyprus, as in previous cases, is challenged by the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union. As in previous cases, the break-up should not have any negative social or economic impact, so the Modern will support this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u407	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is due to the fact that Poland is in the European Union, and all the wise Poles are happy about it, because their membership of the European Union has brought incredible benefits to both us and Cyprus - both our countries. Cyprus has changed a lot and Poland has changed a lot, and we should be grateful that the European Union - contrary to what some government camp politicians say - is not a invader of Poland, we are not a condominium, we are an independent, proud country in the European Union and we benefit from it. I hope that the enthusiasm of Members of the Law and Justice on this law - which I share, to be clear - is not the result of what we have recently read in the newspapers, that some of those who took possession of the property of the Third Republic wanted to transfer money to Cyprus. I hope this bill will be... [[Where they speak Russian.]] Yes, they speak Russian in Cyprus. Not only in Cyprus, sir, they speak Russian. In many different countries too, I'm afraid. It's another beautiful language. You can speak Russian, but it's not worth Russian politics. And Russian politics today is breaking up the European Union, breaking up NATO, fighting Poland with its neighbours, fighting Poland with the Ukrainian people, fighting Poland with the Jewish people. This is a Russian policy that even those who do not speak Russian - unlike me - speak. I would like to say that I hope that this law will protect the interests of the Polish state from various political hustlers, who, when held on the property of the Third Republic, wanted to transfer money from the sale to Cyprus recently. I hope that's not what you're after, and I hope honesty in politics wins. Let me repeat: today we are discussing this because Poland is in the European Union, and it is not in the European Union because you are discussing it. They wanted to, only because the overwhelming majority of Poles wanted it. You today are damaging our presence in the European Union. Of course, we will support you on this exceptional matter, because here - which is the exception for this government - you are doing something good in European politics, not bad. Everything else you do is harming the Polish image, harming Polish foreign policy. I would like to say very clearly that the European Union and Poland are inseparably connected and every honest Pole, every Polish patriot, sees in the European Union not a invader - as your President in a disgraceful way claims - but an ally, sees in it a European family that provides us with the future and security. For this belonging of Poland to the European Union, it is worth to thank those whom you are dragging today for the hearings, which you are screaming at with your statements today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u408	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! My argument will be similar to the one in the previous paragraphs of order. Of course, there's no social dissonance here, there's no economic upheaval. We should adopt this project because it is good for the economy. The interests of foreign investors who have come to us, to the rule of law, will be preserved, are preserved. We respect property rights. And, as I stress once again, today's legal procedure is too expensive, which is why we, as a circle of Free and Solidarni, will be in favour of proceding this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u410	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992 (prints No 2289 and 2384). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We proceed with the procedure for the next, fourth already agreement, and therefore I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. The existence of an agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment is also challenged in this case by the European Commission in view of its non-compliance with existing European Union legislation - as is the case with the agreements previously under consideration. As regards the Republic of Poland, the European Commission concluded in November 2016 an informal proceeding initiated in June 2015 and is considering the initiation of formal proceedings, among others. on the non-compliance of this agreement with European Union law. The Republic of Poland will continue its consultations with the Kingdom of the Netherlands to bring an agreement to an end, including an extension clause. If such consent is obtained prior to the entry into force of the termination of the Agreement, the Republic of Poland will take action to terminate the Agreement. The termination of this agreement should not have political consequences, nor will it have a negative social impact, nor should it affect economic relations between Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Foreign Affairs Committee, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2018, unanimously adopted a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in print no. 2289 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[It could be one minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u413	I'll do my best. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law on the termination of the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. The need for termination of the agreement, as in the case of the other three agreements, results from the European Commission questioning it. I will not make arguments because they are not even similar, but identical to previous contracts. I would just like to point out that the Kingdom of the Netherlands is particularly not interested in resolving this agreement. The value of the investments of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Poland for 2016 amounts to PLN 33 billion and the investment of Poland in the Kingdom of the Netherlands amounts to PLN 1800 million. I would also like to say that there is a clause in this agreement that says that even after it has been dissolved on our part, Dutch investments will be protected in Poland under this agreement 15 years after its expiry. Given the above, I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club supports the government's proposal to terminate and terminate this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u414	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The termination of the agreement concluded between the Polish People's Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992, is the result of the European Commission's recommendation and the need to adapt Poland's right to European requirements. For this reason, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u416	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My name is Long, but I'll be brief. [[Applause]] Like my previous speakers, we support the proposal for this agreement. Unfortunately, I want to inform everyone that we are not saying the Grocius principle, further Grocius will be in Poland and in the world will apply. However, the termination of this agreement simplifies the law, instead of two systems there will be one, so let's enjoy it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u418	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As in previous cases, the existence of an agreement between Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands is contested by the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union, and therefore modern is in favour of the termination of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats supports the proposal presented here for the same reasons for which we supported all the proposals so far in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Prime Minister! In the name of the Free and Solidarni wheels, like my predecessors, using the same arguments, I inform you that we will be in favour of this bill. The argument is that this is the right direction, so that we will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 to 10 p.m. 18 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. [[Objection!]] This point will be considered today after the vote. [[There was an objection.]] [[Objection.]] Who's objecting? So, a different time is proposed by the Member, right? [[No, information, one point.]] So there's no objection to that. It is a matter of putting the committee's report on the agenda... [[No, Mr. Marshal. I realized that you started with the information... the vote...]] No, no. [[We objected to that.]] I see. No, this is a misunderstanding. This point will be considered today after the vote. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Infrastructure on the state of the Polish railway and the investments planned on it. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. The question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister Adamczyk's information, against the adoption of which my club will vote, boils down to the propaganda message that on the Polish railroad is great, will be even better after 2023, and certainly after 2030, and the executive companies finally found a real partner in the infrastructure department. So I'm asking. : Does the Minister know that at the end of 2017 train delays were the biggest since 2001? In freight transport, has an increase of 50 million tons per year been managed by motor transport, while rail is transported at an unchanged level of 200?220 million tons? Where's the development of the railroad? Whether to pay VAT from 8 to 23% [[♪ The bell ♪]] for works under maintenance contracts...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u426	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u427	...during the duration of the contracts and the non-compensation of the 15% difference... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u428	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the Minister had information, he wanted to show that Poland was founded 2 years ago and for 2 years started doing something in Poland. That's not true. Minister, you should say very precisely and confess to all Members why you have led to such omission over the last two years, such delays in railway investments. [[Applause]] After all, most investment projects have not yet been implemented, and all of these projects were agreed in 2014 and were included in regional contracts. You should explain why there is a communications paralysis that we witness every day. All of this is neglect and inability to run the rail market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u430	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of taking note of the information... Ah, the Minister of Infrastructure wanted to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's been some questions here about... assessing the state of railway investment. He was a Marshal of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship until recently. If the Member had the courage, when he was a marshal, to ask his party colleagues, who were the ministers responsible for transport, who were presidents of railway companies, for the investments to be carried out at that time, e.g. about the E30 - international railway line No E30 was to be completed by April 2014 - it is today that the Member, I do not mention by name, would not ask why we are carrying out this investment today. If, as well as Members of the opposition, I ask the President, who first asked questions, he will ensure that 26 tenders announced in 2015 in the election campaign... [[You got the right tools.]] ...by politicians and managers of Polish railways from the Civic Platform and PSL had the required technical documentation, and not only empty covers, 22 of them would be settled and today work would be carried out. You have tendered for PLN 17 billion without documentation that would allow these projects to be carried out. [[Voice from the room: Finish it.]] Do not be surprised that after you left the Polish railroad in a catastrophic state, we are repairing and systematizing it today. And take it, please, for the record. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You got the right tools, but you optimized the cost.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[There's no corrigendum. I didn't name it.]] [[The Minister has misled the High House, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u432	Mr Mark Owow's minister mentioned his name? [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Yes, Marshal of Małopolska Voivodship in the previous term.]] No? He didn't mention... [[Voice from the room: There was no name.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I was mentioned for the function I performed...]] 30 seconds to corrigendum, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u433	Ladies and gentlemen! I negotiated 13 railway investments for 13 billion PLN as Marshal of the Lesser Poland Voivodship. [[Applause]] The director of the PKP PLK branch of Krakow was Mr Żmuda, which Minister Adamczyk took as Vice President of PKP PLK company today. You have a grudge against the people you've promoted. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[It wasn't a correction, Marshal, it was polemics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u434	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of taking note of the information of the Minister of Infrastructure on the state of the Polish railway and the investments planned on it will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 249 voted against - 171, 9 abstained. The Sejm took the news. We would like to refer to item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants and persons employed in the financial sector. The additional report shall be in print No 2372-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Committee on Public Finances at today's meeting considered two amendments tabled during the second reading of this draft law. Both amendments received a positive opinion. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt both amendments and adopt the whole of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u436	Thank you. I would remind you that the committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2372. In an additional report from the committees, as we have heard, they have tabled amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose to amend the appointment in point 13 and to add point 48. Amendment 2 to Article 2 is combined with this amendment. 12. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 426 against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the applicants: Is it true that this bill is unfortunately so impenetrable that if we hire someone from a neighbouring country - from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany - even how it will be a serial killer and a serial thief, it will not be covered by this law, therefore its criminality will not be investigated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u438	Yes, the Minister is ready. Minister Mariusz Haladyj, Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, the bill is not leaking. The Act concerns the employment of workers in Poland and information about their criminality in the territory of the Republic of Poland. If someone has a requirement to hire only unpunished people, they will be employed citizens who have a clean card in KRK only Polish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u440	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2372, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 430 voted in favour, no one voted against, no two abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants and persons employed in financial sector entities. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law Rules on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is print No 2426-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 12 April, after considering this proposal, recommends that the High House reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u442	Thank you. We will vote on this proposal first. This is a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and I will put it to the vote first. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u443	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, whether she realises that the adoption of this law is very much accelerating the appointment of the Prime Minister to the Court of State for the fact that for nearly two years she refused to publish three judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Would Prime Minister Beata Szydło explain to the Poles if she was lying when she said that there were no judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, or if her party colleagues were lying now, who ordered the publication of these judgments. Stand here, look into the eyes of Poles and Poles and say: Yes, I lied, for two years I deceived you without publishing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please have that courage at the end, because then the translation will only be before the Court of State. Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u444	Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Boris Budka had a question for the former Prime Minister, and I have a question for the applicant's representative. Which provision in our legal system allows us to recognise without judgment of the court or without judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that the judgment in question is unlawful? Which one's the recipe? If you tell us this secret, you will speed up the proceedings before the courts, because it will prove that the institution of the court of appeal will no longer be needed. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to convince anyone by this formula of the publication of a judgment in violation of the law. And by whom, on what grounds? That's what I'm asking the applicant's representative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u446	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u447	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is also addressed to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and in her absence to the whole club of Law and Justice, from which the recommendation served as Prime Minister. Do you know the article? 190 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall have universal force and shall be final. The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be immediately published in the official body in which the normative act was declared. First question: Do you know this provision of the Constitution? [[No, they don't.]] Point two: Are you aware that these two laws have been scandalously broken by you? And the third question is, are you aware that Beata Szydło, and in particular Beata Szydło, will bear constitutional and criminal responsibility for this? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Carry, carry.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u448	Thank you. However, I urge you not to give such judgments, because it is the Constitutional Tribunal that makes the provision constitutional or not. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 237, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before voting on the whole draft law, I have three questions for the Member representing the applicants. Question one: Why are you presenting a project that is not in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 and 2 Constitution Question two: Why have you created an act that is unnecessary and unnecessary? After all, the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of March, August and November 2016 can and should be published on the basis of the current rules? And question three: Why do you put forward pretend solutions that are supposed to make the government credible in the eyes of the European Commission, and in fact represent a smokescreen to cover the actions that destroy the Polish justice system and subject it to the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u450	Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Mouse...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll send the petitioner! Are you able to stand here before the Sejm, read the article. 190 constitutions that are so openly violated at this point in time? Do you really think that this bill will wipe out the constitutional delicacy committed by your party colleague Beata Szydło, your party colleague Mateusz Morawiecki? After all, when you applied for this project, you actually confessed. You admitted that you deliberately and intentionally broke the constitution because it was in your best interest. How do you explain that for the first time this Sejm will vote on a law which states which judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is lawful or not? Will we now vote in the Sejm on any judgment of the common court that does not please the Law and Justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u452	The question is asked by Michał Kaminski, PSL - UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've got a question I'm gonna go ahead with a pre-war anecdote, a schmuck. When Goldman came to the doctor and the doctor examined him and said to him, "Mr. Goldman, the dead," he replied: "Let me have this in writing." I am asking you, Mr. Marshal, to give us in writing what you just said, that the Constitutional Tribunal is from final judgments, because it seems that you have not respected this in the last two years at all. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u454	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2426 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 233, against 172, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and a law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. We proceed to the third reading. It's about print 2393-A. I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u455	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! We are just finishing the work on a parliamentary project updating the Supreme Court Act. Today, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has examined the proposals and amendments tabled at second reading. PO and Modern Clubs have applied for rejection of the bill. He did not obtain the required majority. Before moving on to the various amendments, Mr Jachnik of the Kukiz club15 asked the other opposition Members whether, if most of the members of the committee supported the amendments tabled by the PO clubs and the Modern Members of these clubs, they would vote in favour of the entire bill. He didn't get a very logical answer that he didn't. The justification of the first amendment by the representative of the club Modern turned into a traditional fight, and after calming these opposition emotions we moved on to consideration... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This is the report of the committee.]] ...to make further adjustments. I'm going to refer to the ones that have been... [[The committee's report is.]] ...by the committee accepted. The first one, by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, was accepted by a majority of committee members. It provides for an open voting procedure for the selection of jurors. Amendment No 13, tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, also received the required majority. This amendment aims to enable the work of judges in the Disciplinary Chamber to date. These amendments positively reinforce the laws adopted today as a democratic package for the judiciary. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u456	Please. As we have heard, in this additional report is the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and I will put it to the vote first. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If someone thought that the Supreme Court Act prepared by President Andrzej Duda could no longer demolish the Supreme Court, then he was wrong, because this very bill confirms that it is possible to politicize and destroy the Supreme Court even more, that this pride of power which you present has no limits. Today, when we asked in the Committee on Justice how this law was adopted, because the rules concerning the first reading had been violated, President Piotrowicz said: "The Marshal of the Sejm has decided." I ask myself: Do we have the rules of the Sejm here, or does lex Kuchciński in the Sejm apply? That's the question today. Without any mode, you make a bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u458	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the subject and to the point, because... [[But it's not offensive.]] ...I have the right... [[And you stole his time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u459	This bill is adopted without any mode...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u460	...do not allow questions if questions are...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u461	...and introduces unconstitutional things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u462	...to put the Sejm on the line... [[You can do anything.]] ...and that's how I answer that question. And I would like to draw your attention to those Members who have now joined the questions to ask questions about and on the subject. Please, Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Don't be afraid of criticism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You confirm by this law that the previous law has shortened the term of office of the first President of the Supreme Court contrary to the Constitution. But if that's not enough, you're giving the president full power in the Supreme Court for a year, 12 months after the law came into force. He will not only be able to adopt the rules governing the operation of the Supreme Court without the opinion of the Colleges of Judges of the Supreme Court, but will also be able to declare vacant posts in the Supreme Court without asking the first President of the Supreme Court. It's like assigning a position in government or in the Sejm without asking the President of the Council of Ministers or the Marshal of the Sejm. The boss is the person who knows best what needs are in the institution. Here, for 12 months, it will be decided only by the executive authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u464	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u465	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Milewski, was pleased to say that this law strengthens democratic governance in Polish judiciary. My question to the rapporteur is this: Do you really understand the essence of this law? Its essence is the introduction of a state of emergency in the most important of Polish courts, the Supreme Court, and the submission of this court for 12 months of direct sovereignty of the executive authority in the person of the President of the Republic of Poland. This is a denial of the Montescius principle of three divisions of power. This is a denial of the Anglo-Saxon civilization acquis, in which the judiciary is independent of the executive authority, and it is, finally, contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission, which expected solutions that were exactly the opposite of those that you introduced. Thank you. [[What do we care?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u466	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 173 voted against - 235, with 21. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] Amendments 1 to 11 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Supreme Court Act. In the first amendment to Article. 7 applicants propose not to add § 5 and § 6. Amendment 14 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u467	Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is tried in an elementary way to defend such elementary principles of judicial independence. You're trying to put a muzzle on the judges in the form of a Disciplinary Chamber. If these rules enter into force, the independence of the judge will be exactly the same as the freedom of Members of the Sejm to express their views under the amended Rules of Procedure of the Sejm: [[Applause]] Anything you don't like, it's punishment. Already today, without these records, Minister Ziobro sent prosecutors to judges in Szczecin, who gave sentences that were not in line with the minister's expectations. Is this the rule of law? Is this democracy? Tomorrow you will show us how close you are to European standards, how you are having a dialogue with the European Union, what a breakthrough you have made. It's all a lie. You're trying to subjugate the courts, and that's what you're trying to do. You can't, because it's a constitutional violation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and fundamental principles of democracy. [[Applause]] [[I've heard from the judge...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u468	I would like to point out to you that this is the point where the marshal may allow questions to be asked, but these questions must relate to the amendments. [[Voice from the room: You don't pay attention...]] [[Here we go.]] [[Democracy is starting. People.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're forcing me to use the art. 182. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But you obviously feel like it.]] Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. [[A statement made under duress is invalid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The governing camp creates a Disciplinar Chamber for all legal professions actually only to create a tool for exerting pressure on Polish lawyers. This is not about any responsibility, it is simply about creating a political whip on all those lawyers who oppose the violation of the Constitution, who oppose the fact that you are destroying the independence of the justice system. Those you can't convince to trample on the constitution, those you can't convince with promotions and wealthy money, which is the overwhelming majority of Polish lawyers, you just want to intimidate. Minister! What is the other reason for creating this disciplinary tape, in which the judge in any disciplinary matter will be the person who will be elected by the institutions that are appointed by the PiS? What is the reason for paying these political executioners in the Disciplinary Chamber? What is the reason for such a wording, that even if someone [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna cut his legs off in an accident, and the Disciplinary Board is gonna pass judgment while he's gone? The only reason is to intimidate Polish lawyers. [[Applause]] [[Judges.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u470	Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to say that this amendment concerns a completely different thing, it concerns the Article. 7... [[And 6.]] ...art. The 7th Supreme Court Act, which has been in force since 3 April this year. He's talking about the budget autonomy of the Disciplinary Chamber... [[You're talking to us, not the president.]] ...in which he will rule 16 judges, because the President has already issued a regulation in the form of the Supreme Court Rules, which is also in force. It only concerns the transfer of expenditure during the financial year... [[Talk to us, not the president.]] [[Voice from the room: The President translates.]] ...for the purposes of this Chamber where 16 judges are to be employed. So, completely unobtrusive legally, demagogical are these statements of my previous speakers. [[Applause]] [[Ask me a question.]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u472	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 172 votes against - 234 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose to add a new wording § 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! The concreteisation of the budget of the Disciplinary Chamber is important and what Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz and Mr Nitras spoke about is absolutely related to it, because if the Disciplinary Chamber acts as a state and will be the armed arm of Minister Ziobra to punish insubordinate judges according to him...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u474	Mr President, please refer to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u475	...all these concerns are absolutely up-to-date and justified. Don't underestimate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u476	Mr President, this is not the time for discussion. Please refer to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u477	In contrast, in the article. 13 you are trying to create such an emergency gate to ensure that you have a greater impact on the election process of the first President of the Supreme Court. I would remind you that one of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which you now wish to publish after 2 years, concerns the defective election of the first President of the Constitutional Tribunal. After all, Judge Julia Przyłębska has been chosen illegally. In this law, you are protected by the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In case of a similar situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u478	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u479	...so that such a case does not... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u480	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. I would only ask you very much to refer to amendment two. [[Don't let the marshal bother the speaking Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You just want to have a bigger impact - and these laws are exactly what they say - on the selection of judges and the selection of the first Supreme Court President. But that's not the biggest problem for us today. We have come to the point where Mr Daniel Milewski, Mr PiS, goes out to the stand and graciously announces that this law is a democratic package for the judiciary. So he admits, as I understand it, that all the previous laws were simply undemocratic. But I have another kind of question for you: And what now, the nation is to be grateful for the grace directed...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u482	Member, please ask, ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u483	...to the justice system? The way you make the law is completely absurd. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u484	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that, unfortunately, I will not be able to allow any further questions because the questions are not on the subject. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Scandal...]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 169 voted against - 231, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 61 applicants propose to add a new wording § 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. [[No, questions.]] Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 358, against - 33, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Request for a break on behalf of the club.]] In the 4th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose not to repeal § 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess.]] Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, please do not disturb me because I will have to consider that you are breaking the rules of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 232, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 111 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording § 4 and do not add § 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Its adoption will render amendments 6, 7, 10, 12 and 13 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 165 voted against - 231, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 111 applicants propose to add a new wording § 4 and added § 5. Amendments 7, 10, 12 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: But there was a conclusion.]] Who among you is in favour of these amendments would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 168 voted against - 231, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 8... [[Voice from the room: There is a formal conclusion.]] I inform you that there is a formal proposal, but I consider it an informal proposal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] He's not fulfilling... [[Voice from the room: Dictatura!]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Dictatura! Dictatorship! Dictatorship!]] [[You can be proud of yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this is why it is informal, that it does not meet the criterion of the formal proposal, because we are currently not having a discussion. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess...]] I would like to inform you that a formal request has been made to change the way the discussion is conducted. There is no such formal application. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You will laugh.]] [[You're not gonna provoke me.]] [[Voice from the room: You'll pay for everything.]] In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of Article. 112. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Are we voting or not voting?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Request for a break...]] Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess... parliamentary custom.]] 361 Members voted. The vote was 106, against 230, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess. Your behavior is outrageous. It's censorship... it can't be that way.]] [[Voice from the room: What can't?]] Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the moment you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I remind you that a formal application must be made in writing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But it's in writing.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, as president of the parliamentary club... I am requesting a recess.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Lord deprives the Sejm of its seriousness.]] ...and in accordance with Article. 182 Marshals recognise whether the application meets the criteria of formality. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, Mr Marshal...]] [[Could you justify why he doesn't?]] In the 9th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 112a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request for a recess.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are creating a silent Seym. This can't be right. This is a dictatorship, which you're introducing. These are government laws, we have to discuss them.]] [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]] 433 Members voted. 168 votes against - 235, 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 131. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[There are questions, Mr. Marshal. You're breaking the Sejm's rules.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] 432 Members voted. The vote was 239, against - 162, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are violating the importance of the House.]] In the 15th amendment to the article. 5 draft law amending applicants propose that the law enter into force... [[Compromise with the European Union. To Europe.]] ...after 30 days from the date of the announcement. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the courtroom: Punishment for the marshal.]] 430 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 232, with 32. [[Voice from the Chamber: Democratic package.]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. I would like to inform you that a request for a formal interruption has been received correctly this time and that the sitting will be adjourned by noon. 20. I'll put him to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Reason.]] [[But it's a justification.]] This application was submitted by the Civic Platform Club. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who among you is in favour of declaring a time-out? 20, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] 436 Members voted. 169 voted against - 255, with 12 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Reason, Mr. Marshal.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2393, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. [[Question.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 238 against 164, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Supreme Court Act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Enjoy.]] [[This is how courts reform in Poland.]] We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. The additional report shall be in print No 2441-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present an additional report on the draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court, prints No. 2389, 2441 and 2441-A. At its 61st meeting on 12 April 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 2441 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposal and amendments, proposes that the proposal to reject the draft law be rejected while adopting two [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Hand out of pocket.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests.]] [[Voice from the room: Question, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u486	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that I will also benefit from the article at this point. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2, according [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Why?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Dictatura!]] The Commission proposes, I remind you, the adoption of a draft law from print No 2441. In the first place, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the proposal in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Vote for yourselves!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 135 voted against - 233, with 26 abstentions. [[Voice from the Chamber: Democracy, democracy.]] The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] In the first amendment to Article. 106i Law on the system of common courts applicants propose to maintain the existing wording § One, three, six and seven. [[Fame, you're leaving.]] [[Take care of your CEO, you moron.]] Member, please leave the speaker, because I will have to follow the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Pomaska, right now You're making it difficult for me to hold a session of the Sejm. [[Maybe you just don't get it.]] We're in the middle of a vote right now. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. [[Voice from the room: What is it anyway?]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the session of the Sejm at the moment. [[Voice from the room: To the column is best.]] According to art. 175 calling you to order. [[You're interfering with the Sejm's hearing.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The laws of the system are accepted.]] 410 Members voted. 240 voted against - 130, with 40 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[But is this really the Sejm you want, Mr. Chairman?]] These proposals you have tabled, I will present them and put them to the vote. There's that conclusion. In the second amendment to the article. The 37th Supreme Court Act proposes... [[Voice from the room: But you will not disrupt the polls tomorrow.]] ...new wording of the second sentence in § 1, new wording § 3 and the addition of the second sentence in § 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[Equal rules for conducting the debate. Are those equal rules?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 232 voted against - 147, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No.2441, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 236 voted against - 149, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the Supreme Court. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2407. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2407, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 168, with 13. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Act on driving vehicles. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2285. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2285, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 412 against - 1 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Road Traffic Law and the Act on driving vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, from these formal proposals that have been presented to me here, I will now allow a formal proposal... [[Grace.]] [[Babysitter's needed.]] [[Voice from the hall: Sławek, read to the marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: What does it say? What club?]] [[Two conclusions and we disorganized the marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that of these dozens of applications which have been submitted, one is qualified as a formal application. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The grounds shall be given.]] A quorum shall be established by electronic vote. Referral to committee - does not concern the case. Voting without discussion - we are not discussing. Close the discussion - we are not discussing. [[What are you saying?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, please do not ask too much.]] The secrecy of the sitting must be approved by 30 Members. Recalculation of votes - there is no need for that. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the hall: Through tears you will laugh.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Deciding the marshal.]] The transition to the agenda is also pointless. Ladies and gentlemen, limiting speaking time to 30 seconds is also pointless, including closing the sitting, but it is a signature that is illegible. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That is why the Member who came forward... [[Mr. Marshal, this is my signature, the illegible one.]] I find all the others unobtrusive. [[Voice from the room: Famous genius.]] I remind you... [[Voice from the room: I made a formal motion and you did not refer to it. I made a formal application in writing.]] Thank you, sir. I remind you... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr Nitras, the Poles have chosen. Respect for Poles.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to justify the motion.]] Please take your seats, ladies and gentlemen. [[What about these conclusions? Democrats.]] [[Where's the one? Is this one lost?]] We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2325. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2325, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 2 and abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] I address Mr Nitras. You've made this difficult for me for one time. [[The voice from the hall: Sławek, sit down, it's too much money.]] At the moment, in accordance with Article. 175, I would like to point out to you that you do not interfere with my driving. I would remind you that formal applications must be made in writing, but in such a way that they are formal applications. [[But it's in writing. You said you didn't know my signature.]] Mr Nitras, I would like to point out to you once again that you are making it difficult for me to conduct my deliberations. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, request.]] Based on the article... [[You guys are ridiculous.]] Let's see if this proposal is formal. We're back to consideration... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[These cheap provocations aren't for us. You're still guilty.]] [[You read it right away.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I have a motion.]] Madam, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not interfere with my deliberations, because I will have to use the formula that you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: You're trespassing.]] [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I would like to request a recess, Mr Marshal. Please consider my request and allow me to justify it.]] Member, please take your place, because I believe that you are in violation of the seriousness of the Sejm at the moment, because you make it difficult for me to conduct my deliberations. [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I am president of the club and it is a good parliamentary custom to allow club presidents to justify the proposal.]] Madam, you are making it difficult for me right now, once again, I am telling you. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Code Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2346. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2346, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 280, against 145, with one abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and the Prison Service Act. At the moment, I inform you that the formal proposal which I allow to be presented and put to the vote is Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz's request to adjourn the sitting. I'm asking you, Mrs... [[Voice from the room: Reason.]] ... Gasiuk-Pihowicz to state his reasons. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Without a card you can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess right now. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we had just dealt with was an absolute, outrageous violation of the rules and parliamentarians, and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We followed three very important laws, which concern the Polish system, at a time when negotiations are being held with the European Commission, at a time when the fate of millions of Poles and the consequences that will be that you are playing hide and seek with the European Commission. [[Surprise again.]] We process these three laws and we don't even have the possibility to ask questions. This is an absolutely unacceptable situation. That's why, Mr. Marshal, I'm asking that we have a break at this moment so that you can call the Senior Convention and we can have this scandalous situation... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: The opposite.]] ...they could have voted out. You've already let that happen once. If there's no room to talk in parliament when you're afraid of difficult questions, when you're afraid to face the truth, that you're proceding laws that give up completely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Control of the justice system for politicians, it's starting to talk, but on the streets. I'm gonna need a break. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u488	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: And here's the opposite.]] [[But here's the counterclaim.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: The motion is against.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] 434 Members voted. Four Members abstained in voting 171 against 259. The Sejm's application has been rejected and several other requests for interruption are therefore unfounded at the moment. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 2341. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2341, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 1 and abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Committee on the Government's draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2344-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present an additional report to the committee on the Government's draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long contained in print No 2344-A. At its 61st meeting on 11 April 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 2344 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Four amendments were tabled during the second reading, which the committee considered at its meeting on 12 April 2018. The Commission, while not sharing the views of the applicants, requests that the three amendments be rejected and that one be adopted. The Commission welcomes the amendment on Article. Paragraph 7 1, in order to delete the words "and allow it to be clearly identified" relating to the name given to the vessel. The Commission considered it not appropriate to introduce the uniqueness of the name into the requirements of the registration authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u490	Please. The amendments that have been tabled will be voted first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1 applicants propose that a boat and a vessel used for amateur fishing of at least 12 metres should be registered. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 169 voted against - 260, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (2) of the applicant proposes to delete point (a). o and p. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 170 votes against, 257 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 1 The applicants propose to delete the words and to allow it to be clearly identified. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 5, with 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2344, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 1, with 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the application of plaintiff David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to the Sejm to take the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz (print No 2047) - vote. We have a vote right now. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable only with the consent of the Sejm. [[Right away, everybody.]] I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. 5 in conjunction with paragraph 5. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the civil liability of Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 in conjunction with paragraph 6. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the proposal for consent to the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the request by plaintiff David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz for the act specified in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The statutory absolute majority is 231. 260 voted against - 170, with four abstentions. [[Shame, shame.]] [[And Kownacki is? You have to protect your own people.]] I state that by an absolute majority of votes the Sejm adopted a resolution on consenting to the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz for the act specified in David Jackiewicz's application of 12 September 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Ryszard Petru (print No 2173) - vote. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm accept a request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. [[You were gonna put the rooster in.]] We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 with a request to accept the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru for the act specified in that request, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The statutory absolute majority is 231. 262 voted against - 170, with two abstentions. I state that by an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution on the acceptance of the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017. [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request of the Head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to give its consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski (print No 2306) - vote. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland shall not be detained or arrested without the consent of the Sejm, except in the event of him being caught in the act of the offence and if his detention is necessary to ensure the proper course of the proceedings. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. 5 in conjunction with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm accept the request for consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. On the basis of the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator Sejm agrees to the detention or arrest of Member by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the request by the Head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to agree to the arrest and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Zbyszek, bravo!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Griglas.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The statutory absolute majority is 231. 261 voted against - 171, 1 member abstained. I state that by an absolute majority of votes the Sejm adopted a resolution on consent to the detention and provisional arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski at the request of the Head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017. We return to the review of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in addition. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[There's an objection, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Can you accept this objection?]] There you go, there's an objection. Then we will have two more votes. We will now vote on this objection. We are voting on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to refer this draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 279 against - 143, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's proposal was accepted by the Bureau. At the moment, we are taking an additional vote on the referral of the draft law from print No 2333 to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. If you are in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote 192 against - 237. The Sejm's motion is denied. We've finished the vote for today. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 14 hours 19 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to transfer the conversations to the cockroaches. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and the Infrastructure for Spatial Information (Prints Nos 2392 and 2443). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations to the colloquials.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, 12 April, the Infrastructure Commission has examined the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information, print No. 2392. One amendment was tabled during the meeting. This amendment was accepted, so we recommend that the draft law be adopted in its entirety together with the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u492	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information, print no. 2392. The draft law provides for a change in the form of the transfer of infrastructure and spatial information from the section: IT to the section: construction, spatial planning and development and housing. As a result, the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing will be equipped with a tool to obtain the necessary information for investment purposes. The infrastructure of spatial information shall provide the necessary geoinformation. It is reasonable for it to be supervised and coordinated by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. On the other hand, changes in spatial information infrastructure assume that the creation and maintenance of geoportal spatial information will be the responsibility of the main surveyor of the country. The bill also regulates issues such as: take over cases initiated from 1 January 2017 until the date of entry into force of the Act and provide relevant documentation. Changes related to the transfer of spatial information infrastructure to the Ministry of Investment and Development will allow to focus all instruments in one resort, i.e. geodesia, cartography, planning and spatial planning, infrastructure of spatial information necessary for the establishment of a government geoinformation service centre. The Law and Justice Club fully accepts the draft law presented in print no. 2392. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u494	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u495	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, during my first reading of this project, I spoke of the lack of a coherent concept of running the state even after the control was handed over to Prime Minister Morawiecki. Unfortunately, there are still redeployments between the various ministries, exchanges, and rather redeployment of ministers and vice-ministers. I also talked yesterday about manually muteing the Ministry of Digitization and taking away further competences from it, sequentially dismembering them into individual, other ministries. Today, a few words about this project, the participation or the central office of the surveyor of the country, who carried out the entire scope of his duties earlier, in his previous term of office, in the Ministry of Administration and Digitization. When you changed that decision and decided to new the location and functioning of the central office of the country's surveyor, we raised doubts. We were talking about how this is a very bad decision. You didn't listen then, and today you're just confirming our doubts and admitting your mistakes, while at the same time giving us the right to what we have explained to you. I think that sometimes even with unnecessary humiliation and quick, thoughtless decisions, we need to slow down for a while, catch our breath and, however, listen to the good suggestions we gave you at the time. And first you're throwing out the central office of the country's surveyor into space, and after a dozen months you're admitting a mistake, right now, just not saying it was a mistake, just covering it with more expensive changes while moving the staff of individual ministries. Ladies and gentlemen! You continue to err, continue to seek and make costly changes, unfortunately confirming that you are not ready to face great challenges, because even small, simple tasks unfortunately exceed countries. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents our decision: we will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u496	Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u497	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Yesterday, the first reading of the government draft law on amending the law on government departments and the law on the infrastructure of spatial information took place. I can say, and I want to say, on behalf of our club, that every government, every prime minister, every minister in this government has the right to have and have its own look and concept. On the one hand, it would seem logical, only a pity that these shifts and placements of specific tasks, competences extend over time and with practically some things we can land in the fourth year of this term. Nevertheless, the activities discussed, both transfers between ministries and operations related to the operation, the implementation of the tasks of the country's main surveyor, as well as the new tasks and duties of the Minister, are accepted. We won't be against it, we'll see what comes out of it, and hope would suggest that it should be more effective, better, more efficient. Let's hope so, although many moments indicate that we should have and we have doubts about the fact that in the third year we do not yet have a stable vision, a stable division of competences. Nevertheless, the club - as I said - will not be opposed to voting on these decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u498	Thank you. We've exhausted five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u499	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous colleague was right, who said on behalf of the Civic Platform that you would dismember the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction one by one. Some have already given to Minister Gliński in general, it is not known why, so far we cannot be surprised, now, as part of the next reorganisation of departments, you are handing over to the Minister for Housing what belongs to the tasks of the country's main surveyor. Is that why this minister should decide where the areas under your apartments are to be armed as part of your living+ program, which is not working? And even your president of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - investments - said that the Act on National Resources Real estate is a dead law that doesn't work and M+ doesn't build in this way. I ask: Is that why you want to do this art here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To land outside the cities that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...sinking cities, working out?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u500	Thank you, Member, time is up. I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u501	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask briefly about the functioning of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council so far, how it is functioning at the moment, as well as the changes that you are writing down as regards its composition, as regards the selection of the new four representatives of scientific institutions or non-governmental organisations, because they will now be issued by the Minister responsible for IT. Do we know which institutions will be proposed to the Spatial Information Infrastructure Board at the moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u502	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs of Minister Marek Zagórski to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a little surprised and confounded with a few things. Firstly, Mrs Chmiel's question. This bill does not affect the Minister of Infrastructure at all. We are moving tasks under the responsibility of the Minister of Digitization and handing them over to the Minister responsible for construction, so we do not touch this law at all. Second thing, Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska's statement. If we assume, we would assume that we made a mistake without listening to the Platform then, then I do not really understand this logic. If we assume that this was a mistake, and now we're pulling out of this mistake, I don't really understand why you're against this bill. Yeah, but I'm leaving it up to you. At the same time, I would like to inform you that this law is not expensive, we do not bear any costs, and that the change is merely that the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council will be subject to another minister in line with the logic of this law. Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u504	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on government departments and the law on infrastructure of spatial information after the presentation of the report of committees, prints no. 2392 and 2443. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal amends two laws: the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration and the Law of 4 March 2010 on the infrastructure of spatial information. During the committee's work, no key changes were made to the project, which would lead to a different face. That is why we need to say exactly what we said at first reading about this project. The proposal in this project to amend the Government Administration Departments Act implies the transfer of infrastructure issues of spatial information from the Department: IT to the Department: construction, spatial planning and development and housing. As a result of this change, the Minister of Investment and Development will instead be responsible for the infrastructure of spatial information in Poland, which is the consequence of the Minister's taking over of the investment and development management of the department: construction, planning and spatial development and housing under the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2018 on the detailed scope of the minister's activity. According to the projector, this is intended to equip this minister with a tool that will enable him to obtain the necessary information for investment purposes and allow him to monitor the results of his decisions and changes in the economic space of the country in a real way. In turn, the amendments proposed in the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act assume that the creation and maintenance of the Spatial Information Infrastructure geoportal as a central access point for spatial services and the keeping of publicly available collections and spatial data services covered by the infrastructure and providing them with uniform identifiers will be the responsibility of the main surveyor of the country. It is therefore intended to transfer responsibility in this respect from the Minister for Digitisation to the Minister for Investment and Development, which will only perform strategic tasks related to the coordination of spatial information infrastructure and the execution of operational activities will be entrusted to the main surveyor of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you that not much more than a year ago, the Sejm adopted the Act of 16 November 2016 amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which amended, among others. the Government Departments Act and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act in such a way that the Authority responsible for Spatial Information Infrastructures has been made Minister for Digitalisation and is entrusted with the creation and maintenance of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Geoportal to the full scope of thematic and territorial infrastructure. You should therefore decide which minister should be responsible for what. The transfer of responsibility from one minister to another every few months certainly does not serve anyone, and it merely shows that, despite more than two years of government, you still have no idea how to rule the country. However, I would like to draw attention to one more point. The contested law gives the impression of a regulation designed solely to sanction Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's decision to take over the department: construction, spatial planning and development and housing by the Minister of Investment and Development and to change the distribution of competences between this minister and the main surveyor of the country. However, the PiS would not be himself if, on the occasion of proceding this seemingly orderly regulation, he did not attempt to smuggle solutions to serve only what he really achieved the championship: removing people who have either become uncomfortable or have to free up a seat for the party nominators. In this context Allow me to draw attention to one of the transitional provisions of the proposed regulation, namely Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2, according to which the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing may, within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this Act (...) amend the composition of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Board in the scope referred to in Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 point 10 of the Act as amended by Art. 2 as amended by this Act. In other words, within 3 months of the entry into force of the Act, the Minister for Investment and Development may change the composition of the Council by recalling four representatives of scientific institutions or non-governmental organisations appointed by Minister Anna Streżyńska, including. Chairman of this council, Prof. Radosław Wiśniewski - Dean of the Faculty of Geodesy, Spatial Engineering and Construction of UWM in Olsztyn, appointed for this position in January Ub. It seems therefore, since Minister Anna Streżyńska has been spared, that on the occasion of proceding from the technical appearance of the amending act, you have decided to rid the Council of Spatial Information Infrastructure also of the four experts appointed by the Minister of Streżyńska and replace them with new members, who, I suspect, will be mediocre, passive, but faithful. Due to the fact that our doubts about the project were not resolved, the Modern Posel Club will not support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u506	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list. I would like to make a statement by Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform. She's not here. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the day of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime, I would like to inform the High House that the fight for the truth about the Katyn crime began in 1974 and this fight against the Katyn lie continues until today. Then with Fr. Sunday, Karłowicz, Tchaikovsky, Bishop Niziołk and Kraszewski we met and exchanged information about Katyn's crime. Then the thought of honoring the Polish victims of Katyn was created, over 22 thousand. murdered Polish officers, a cross and a monument, which was to stand in Warsaw's Powązki, in a military cemetery, in a place chosen by the people of Warsaw. On July 31, 1981, we made this act without the approval of the authorities and in spite of propaganda, which then proclaimed that the crimes were committed by Germany and that the date was 1941. The monument - although it stood only a few hours - broke the Katyn lie and became something that finally made the nation feel that it was possible to tell the truth. The Soviet embassy in Warsaw was removed from the cemetery only in 1989. Then there was a six-year struggle to get that statue back to the place that was chosen. During that time, Mr. Jaruzelski put up a fake, which she continued lyingly serving as the date of Katyn's murder in 1941, and called the criminals Germans. In many Warsaw churches: St. Anna, St. Wenceslas, St. Cross and on the streets of Warsaw, e.g. The hoops, the Honeymoon, are the plates that the Katyn Committee founded, with the actual date of the crime and the names of those who died. In 1991 Polish soldiers - bombers from Dęblin and Kazunia made Katyn crosses of 9 m high. Stefan Melak, head of the Katyn Committee, took them to Miednoje and Kharkov. They went one way, 3.5,000. It's a kilometer. They were placed there and witnessed to the fact that Poland remembers and that the truth will always prevail. The Katyn Committee in 2004 also led to the reopening of an independent Katyn investigation by Polish prosecutors when the Russian military prosecutor suspended the proceedings without giving absolutely any reason for such omission. The fight for the truth about the Katyn crime continues. There are still widows and families of those who were killed with a shot to the back of the head on an inhuman earth, but the truth cannot wait until today. The International Court of Justice in Strasbourg rejected the family complaint twice, motivated by the fact that Russia does not inherit. Then who, ladies and gentlemen, inherits from the Soviet Union, if not Russia? The Katyn crime unpunished is not judged as a warning to a world that is always threatened by it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought something like this might happen again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u508	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u509	Poland should strive to punish this crime, and the memory of those murdered should last forever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u510	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The spring of the year of the Lord's 1025 was extremely important for the formation of Polish statehood. This year King Bolesław Chrobry performed an act of his own coronation. Since our ruler gained the status of God's anointed, Poland has been given the title of kingdom and eternal place among European countries. This noteworthy symbolic act also had an important political dimension - Poland became a sovereign entity of international law. Today, in the year of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence after the times of partitions and domination of foreign absolutes, it is worth recalling the moments which were the foundation of this independence, moments which, despite 123 years of occupation, erased Poland from the map and brutal attempts to nationalize, allowed to rebuild free, sovereign and independent Poland. The Easter of 1025 was held on April 18th. Despite the lack of a strict chronicle, it was probably that day that Archbishop Gniezno Hippolith decorated Bolesław Chrobre's temple with the royal crown. Since the year 1000 and the famous Gniezno convention, our ruler has enjoyed full sovereignty, and in Poland an independent church province with the first archbishop Gaudenty was developing. However, the gesture given to Bolesław Chrobre by Emperor Otto III of his own diadem was not completed in a formal coronation act. The premature death of the young emperor and the long-standing conflict of Chrobre with the successor of Emperor Henry II blocked this possibility, and the crown already prepared in Rome reached the Hungarian ruler Stefan and is today one of the symbols of the independence of the state of our Hungarian nephews. In the spring of 1025 Bolesław Chrobry took advantage of the fact that in the previous year both Emperor Henry and Pope Benedict VIII died, and on this wave of changes he quickly led to his coronation. It happened less than three months before he died. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In honor of our ancestors, who regained independence in 1918, let us call on them to record permanently in the national memory and national ceremonial of this act almost a thousand years ago, the erection act of the building, which is the brightest Republic of Poland. Without the royal coronation of Bolesław Chrobry - Chrobry, because at the time they considered him not only a ruler, but also a brave, brave and courageous man - there would be no Polish independence given to all the next generations as the most sacred treasure and duty. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u512	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of myself and participants of the 78th anniversary of the Katyn crime in Zambrowa, I thank you for the letter I had the honour to read on behalf of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. The venue wasn't random. In the Zambrowski garrison in the years 1937-1939 the Mazowiecka School of the Artillery Reserves was stationed, whose 16 officers were murdered in the Katyn forest. 5 March 1940 The Soviets issued a decision to murder nearly 25,000. Polish citizens. The victims were officers of the Polish Army, but also government officials, scientists, entrepreneurs, teachers, officers of the Prison Service, the State Police, the Border Protection Corps and the Border Guard. On April 3rd, NKVD officers began the execution of a criminal plan to deprive our nation of its elite. The first transport of prisoners left the camp in Kozielsk. They were shot in the head in Katyn. The execution took place also in Kharkov, Tver, Kiev and Minsk. No man raised in the circle of Christian culture can imagine how sick the mind must have been, who with one signature sentenced thousands of innocent people to death, how much hatred he had to feed to our nation and with what envy he had to look at the achievements of our ancestors that he had decided to exterminate Polish elites. It was also unfortunate that at one time we had to face the same degenerates from the East and the West. After all, the Germans had the same plan, they called it Intelligenzaktion. So that we can honor the memory of the victims, I don't mention the names of the two beasts responsible for this crime. Only the communists were able to add another vileness to the huge Katyn crime. For 50 years, the truth about this murder has been hidden. In the years of World War II, even our Western allies tried to force the Polish government in London not to raise Katyn's case on the forum and not to irritate Moscow. During the communist rule in Poland, the Soviet thesis was promoted that Germany was responsible for this crime. In Polish homes, however, the truth was known, passed from mouth to mouth. The anti-communist opposition sold brochures telling the truth about murder on officers, and inscriptions appeared on the walls: Katyn - we remember. On Powązki, the Katyn cross was repeatedly placed, then removed by UB officers. In 1952, a teacher from Gdynia Maria Odyniec was sentenced to 5 years in prison for questioning who was actually responsible for the murder of Polish patriots. The dramatic event related to the fight for Katyn's memory took place on 21 March 1980 in Krakow: Valenty Badylak made an act of self-burning in protest against Katyn's lie. Let's remember 25,000. The victims of the Katyn crime. Hello and praise the heroes! Remember, too, those who cherished the memory of their fate in us. In 2010, 96 people flying to Smolensk died in tragic circumstances to pay tribute to murdered officers. Katyń once again demanded a sacrifice of the best Polish sons and daughters. The day before yesterday we were able to see the monument dedicated to their memory for the first time. It is terrifying that from the solemn unveiling of the monument commemorating equally all the victims of the catastrophe, regardless of their party affiliation or their function, some representatives of some opposition parties tried to make a political hucpa. I remind you that there were also representatives of your environments who died there. Think of the families that are close to your victims. You make them boycott a monument dedicated to their parents and their children. I'm appealing for a little empathy from you. Take the words of the card to heart. Let this monument unite us and cause us to wonder. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u514	Thank you. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u515	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, the Maritime Office in Gdynia has sent to the Marshal's office in Gdańsk a project of construction of the excavation by Mierzya Wiślana, i.e. a waterway connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. A week ago, 5 April 2018, the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship assessed this project negatively. It was incomplete, lacked analysis and report on the impact of investments on the environment. There is also no economic justification for this huge and expensive investment. The PiS government cuts money on one side, e.g. on the necessary bypass of Starogard Gdański, and on the other hand - he wants to spend almost 1 billion on the construction of this excavation. In addition, the costs of modernising infrastructure in Elbląg and building roads for communicating this port need to be added. The Marshal of Pomorskie Voivodship rightly stated in this opinion that it would be wiser to spend this money on flood protection of Żuław. I, too, would like to express my opposition to this costly and unwarranted investment. This excavation will destroy the unique areas of Vislane, fauna and flora, bringing disproportionately small benefits resulting from this excavation. The depth of the Vistula Lagoon, which averages from 2.5 to only 4 m, is small enough that it will not allow the development of the port in Elbląg presented by the government. Why destroy the beautiful nature of the Vistula Land, unique on a European scale, if the benefits for Elbląg are so small? The cost of the excavation alone is almost PLN 1 billion. One forgets that there will be a huge annual cost of living. You're gonna have to dredge up the entire watercourse all year because the flood is shallow... [[Incredibly anti-Polish speech.]] ...winter, on the other hand, in the colder cold, the flood freezes, and once again the cost of breaking through the crevices will have to be borne. [[Moscow!]] This will certainly not allow the shipping of large transport vessels. [[Who wrote this?]] So we're spending so much money on the budget that Elbląg can only get bigger yachts? I strongly oppose the excavation of Vistula Mill. [[Who wrote this?]] I'm not gonna stop fighting to block this investment... [[Disgraceful!]] ...which is harmful to nature and the people of Vistula. [[Moscow!]] In addition, as I mentioned earlier, there is no economic justification for this huge and expensive investment. And this is our money together. There are really many other, greater needs of Pomerania, even if the previously mentioned by me bypass of the Starogard Gdański or the Metropolitan Circuit of the Tricity. I ask the PiS government to verify this idea and withdraw from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-12-sejm-61-2.u516	Thank you, Mrs PO. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Address: Association of Aids in Białystok 15-660 Białystok ul. Witos 38 lok 2a organization of public benefit No. KRS 0000092389 I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 13 April 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 47]]
