ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u1	High Izbo, resume. Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're reconvening. We proceed to the examination of the 30th agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. I would like to warmly welcome the President of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Alicja Adamczyk, present at the meeting. Hello, the president very cordially. Good morning. [[Applause]] [[There is, Mrs. Marshal, the first president of the Supreme Court.]] Hello, Madam President of the Supreme Court, of course. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The President will be particularly welcomed at the Supreme Court point. Now, Mr. Senator, I remind you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Don't help me. I remind you that we are proceeding to the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, and let us focus on this. I would also like to remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Grzegorz Pekkis and is included in print 800 and the report of the committee in print 800-S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! The resolution concerns technical matters, technical matters, which are rarely discussed in such a fine body. Patent, patented solution is one of the few in the world proofs of innovation, inventions... [[Can I hear you louder?]] [[Voice from the room: Closer to the microphone.]] ...the economy of every country. Economics that have a lot of exclusive innovative solutions, solutions that differ from what has already existed, which has already been tested, are developing economies. And the development of a given country, a given civilization, is determined by the number of these obtained exclusivity. I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 20 November 2018 on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. In December 1918, several dozen days after Poland regained its independence, one of the first state institutions was established by the decree of Chief of State Józef Piłsudski. The Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Institutional guarantee of protection of industrial property by the State has been initiated. Since then, the intellectual achievements of Polish inventors, innovators and creators of technical and design solutions have been protected under the law governing the granting of patents and other exclusive rights. In 1919, the head of state issued three further decrees which are modern regulations reflecting the needs of the Polish society in the field of industrial property protection necessary for the economic development of the reborn country. In the same year Poland joined the Paris Convention, which is a fundamental international act defining the principles of industrial property protection. Historical research shows that the need to protect rights on intangible assets has already emerged at an early stage of technological development and is a significant element of civilization heritage. This is also demonstrated by the history of Poland, because the traditions of protection of inventions and technical solutions constitute an important part of the legal culture of our country over many centuries. The oldest Polish patent privilege was issued by King Władysław Jagiełła in the 1920s to the constructor of the mine drainage machine. It is well known that other kings, including kings, also enjoyed similar privileges. Kazimierz Jagiellonian, Zygmunt Stary and Zygmunt III Waza. Protection of industrial property was part of Polish economic life also in the times of partitions, as during this period the first statutory regulations were introduced, among others. the right to patents of freedom and lists of awards, issued in the Kingdom of Poland in 1817. However, the creation of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, established in 1918, was the most significant cezure in the history of the protection of technical innovations in Poland, since legal protection of intangible assets was a matter of utmost importance after independence was regained. Ensuring the necessary conditions for economic development, in particular to support the reborn industry requiring innovative technical solutions, has been the subject of a particular concern of the Government of the Second Republic. Effective protection of these values required respect for the rights of especially Polish inventors and designers, presenting patriotic attitudes in the economy. The appointment of the Patent Office was an expression of the adoption by the highest authorities of the reborn Poland of the principle of supporting technical and economic development by guaranteeing the creator of the right to the created invention and legal security in circulation. During 100 years of continuous operation, the Polish Patent Office granted over 220 thousand patents for inventions, registered more than 60 thousand utility designs, 23 thousand industrial designs and about 300,000 trademarks. In total, over 1 million 200 thousand applications were received by the Polish Patent Office during this period. Currently, the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland provides legal protection covering all categories of industrial property objects: inventions, trademarks, utility designs, industrial designs, topography of integrated circuits and geographical indications. This protection consists in granting exclusive rights to natural persons and economic operators. It guarantees commercial certainty and enables the economic exploitation of intellectual property within the framework of the industrial property protection system, while respecting the rights of all its users. The protection of exclusive rights also promotes innovation, which is an important factor in encouraging creators and entrepreneurs to create new solutions necessary for economic development. The Authority shall also carry out an educational mission aimed at wide dissemination of knowledge on the protection of rights on intangible assets. Raising public awareness in this area is a prerequisite for increasing the use of industrial property protection as a legal instrument that effectively supports creativity and entrepreneurship. The history of Polish invention so far clearly indicates that technical progress made over the last 100 years would not be possible without statutory protection of intellectual property, in particular industrial property. The dynamic development of technology and economy poses challenges to the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland requiring enormous knowledge and experience and wide participation in creative and national economic environments. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its admiration for inventors, innovators and creators who contributed to the economic development of Poland with their intellectual work. We are grateful to the generations of employees of the Patent Office who supported the actions of the creators in a difficult formal description of the declared ideas and stand on the protection of intellectual property. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the applicant, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like the floor of Professor Kazimierz Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! 100 years of Patent Office is a beautiful anniversary. She obviously fits into the celebration of the century of regaining independence, but also shows that Poland, that the Polish people were very well prepared to regain independence, that it was not only the army, it was not only political procedures, but it was also the economy, also science, also the protection of intellectual property. Well, ladies and gentlemen, protecting intellectual property is simply protecting our national treasure. These are our thoughts, important, political and economic, and must therefore be protected, as we protect natural goods, as we protect our borders. Of course, there were many manifestations of state building. We remember what has already been mentioned several times this year in this House, the quick elections to the Sejm. Well, we know it's not easy to organize such an undertaking. But we also remember many other activities, including activities related to the development of science and the economy, new universities were created, and all this was happening then. But, of course, with this century, it is not that we celebrate today that 100 years ago something happened, only the entire 100 years of the Patent Office worked, functioned. Sam, you can say, I've had this benefit by patenting a few studies. It was a long time ago, I don't know if 40 or 35 years ago, it should have been checked. I'm sure it was so long ago that in this electronic database not all these patents I can find, because they concern this new period. At the same time, I felt obliged to speak on the one hand as a person who appreciated it, participated in it, and on the other hand as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Our committee has been giving an opinion on the patent office's budget for years. But this is also an opportunity to get acquainted with the office's achievements. And here the President has always been quite extensive, some even thought that she was extensive, presenting this work. We've always asked. Well, the numbers have already been given here, and I'm not gonna say it again. It's a huge, huge accomplishment. I'll also say this is a good opportunity to say things like that. We asked as a committee to increase the funding of the Patent Office, which was sometimes successful. Because the point is to make the patenting quick. If we want to succeed quickly... Well, somewhere else, other centers work to make it quick to make it better. All the more so as new opportunities are emerging; I am not talking about the European patent anymore, but also about filing our patents outside our country's borders. There are different patent protection zones in the world. I personally, for example, know that in Poland there are many patent reservations coming from the United States, for example. in the field of computer technology. But this is also the promotion of Poland, and above all this protection. Today, when the information society and the knowledge economy are being built, the importance of these legal processes is extremely important. Of course, many people submit to such fashion, such open science manners that everything is open. Well, we know it can't be all open, that there's a patent office that's got a smart line somewhere. I, as a scientist, know that all publications should promote as much as possible, should develop. As I write every publication, it is with the intention that it will be available everywhere, while this wise border is extremely necessary here. Of course, the century is a time to sum up, but it is also a time to wish. On Monday, November 26th, there will be a big celebration in Warsaw, in the Royal Castle, in the Cathedral, in the National Opera. It's gonna be a big holiday. It is an appreciation of this effort and it is important. But it's also an opportunity to plan, to promote. So I wish that this work of the Patent Office will continue, that it will develop under the leadership of the President so that Poland will serve us all well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! Usually we have special resolutions that are not an opportunity for many long speeches, but I think that today is a special occasion. Therefore, I would like to extend my wishes to the entire staff of the office, which works wonderfully, which has extraordinary qualifications and ability to move in the modern world of science, technology and law. I would also like to congratulate you on your many years of administration. And without wishing to make this speech a long time, I would also like to congratulate you on this publication, which the President was kind enough to fund for the senators. I think she's very well-edited, very well-prepared. Please congratulate Mr Latvian on our congratulations, because this publication, short, concisely presented from the earliest times of outstanding creators, outstanding inventors, outstanding designers, will be very useful to us. I think that every one of us has heard a few voices from our neighbors, and they will find people in their area who are close to him because of the devices they have created. E.g. me personally very close is Michał Dolniwoł-Dobrowolski, the creator of the induction engine. I have to say that I once knew him, because as the creator I always knew him, I had the opportunity to be on his grave, which is currently in Moldova. Here is a slightly more detailed picture of his silhouette, as well as the history, which is connected with the partitions. He ended the university with a lynx, just like many of our creators at the end of the partitions, before gaining independence. Stefan Kudelski is also here. Its magnificent tape recorders produced by the company actually Swiss... Well, they were used very intensively also in scientific work, because they were a tool to save data when digital technology was not so widespread. He's also a creator who, I think, is known to us, and especially close to me. I said these few sentences because it was a good idea, so the author too, and you should be congratulated and thanked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator! I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Who among you is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 65 senators voted in favour, 65 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Therefore, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the appointment of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. Madam President, I would like to present this resolution. [[Vice-Marshal Maria Koc passes the resolution]] [[Applause]] Would the president like to speak? Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u8	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to the High Senate for adopting this resolution, as it is an extremely upbuilding and motivating element for the further work of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, and at the same time in a fantastic way closing the historical period of the century of the Patent Office. I think it will be greatly appreciated not only by the employees of the Patent Office, but also by the entire community of innovators, creators, designers, whose work contributed to this success and the continuous period of the 100 years of activity of the Patent Office. I would like to stress here a great relationship, a historical connection with the Senate's activities in terms of lawmaking and discussions, very rich and very deep, on the law. Historically leading... According to the historical message, the first such discussion took place in 1924 and the Senate worked continuously from 1922 onwards, i.e. several years after regaining independence and adopting Marshal Piłsudski's decree on the creation of the Patent Office, then the Republic of Poland, and since 1919 of the Republic of Poland, and establishing the profession of patent attorney, i.e. professional proxy in matters of industrial property. Then, in 1924, under the leadership of the first Marshal Wojciech Trąmpczyński, meetings were held in connection with the adoption of law on inventions, trademarks and utility designs. At the moment, his grandson, the rector of the Świętokrzyski University of Technology, is an inventor, and therefore there is also a historical continuity of family activity. I would also like to thank the initiator of this resolution, Senator Pekkis, on this occasion, and to show great gratitude to the senators, Senator Wind and Senator Wach, as well as Senator Severinski, whose participation in the educational mission of the Patent Office I stress practically continuously. It was precisely when Professor Seweryński was Minister of Science and Higher Education that a decision was made to introduce into compulsory teaching canons, at the moment the national qualification framework, the subject of intellectual property protection for all students in all directions. This work is continued by the current rectors and finds appropriate legal connotations. I think that this is a prerequisite for raising public awareness of the importance of industrial and intellectual property rights for the development of individual creators as well as an innovative economy. It is precisely now, in the modern world, in a competitive and global world, that intellectual property plays a special role, as Senator Wind mentioned. Therefore, the possibility of continuous protection of this creative activity of Poles is crucial for our place in the world and for the building of potential and for the development of our innovative economy. This is particularly related to the implementation of a modern strategy called Morawiecki's Plan, the Strategy for Responsible Development, in which patents and other exclusive rights take a prominent place. In our opinion, it is a sine qua non condition for Poland to live a prosperous life, so that Poland's creative thought, which is so important in the world, is protected, that it works for Polish creators, for Polish entities, and not, as it has been many times, that our solutions build the power of other countries. Because these solutions are taken over especially from representatives of the world of science. Hence, because we really live in the world of intellectual property and there is no object, there is no technology that would not be the product of some creator or team of creators. This awareness of the protection of intellectual property is necessary and necessary. She will decide on the development of the world, on the achievements of civilization, as well as on the protection of civilization from various threats. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. I'm now addressing the entire High Senate. I will hand over to your marshal the memorial book published by Wolters Kluwer with the participation of many creators, representatives of both the world of science and practice. This is the largest book in terms of capacity and, I think, in terms of the content Wolters Kluwer published during his activities. Let me ask you to have her. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]] If your Marshal may, if you would allow me, I would also ask you to accept the current issue of the Polish Patent Office quarterly, which contains many excellent publications. This letter is published in the quarterly cycle. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, [[Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much.]] ...with the magnetic tabs that have marked all... [[Thank you very much, congratulations again and thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] If your marshal will allow me... The special quarterly edition is currently being printed in Polish and English, which contains historical and contemporary messages on industrial property activities and its protection. If it's okay with you, we'd be happy to let all the senators know. It's in the boxes... [[Thank you very much.]] ...all the clubs... [[Thank you again.]] Thank you very much for your kindness and great appreciation for our historic, 100-year-old accomplishment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam President.]] I'm sorry, I forgot about Senator Chelyu, with whom we held a conference in the Senate... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now announcing a five-minute technical break. We'll say goodbye to the guests. Resume session at 9.32 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 28 to 9 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u10	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats and stop talking. I'm asking Senator Komarnicki to stop talking too. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection and consider it as item 30 of the second agenda; amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court and consider it as item 30 of the third agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on combating doping in sport. The text of the law is contained in print 1009, and the report of the committee In print No 1009 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Invited guests! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please silence the conversation.]] On 15 November 2018, the Commission for Science, Education and Sport considered a law amending the Act on combating doping in sport. The committee was attended by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jan Widera, who discussed the reasons for the amendment of the Anti-Doping Act and the purpose and subject matter of the Act in print No 1009. The changes in the international standards for combating doping in sport make it necessary to adapt to them the provisions of the Act on combating doping in sport, which entered into force in April 2017. The Act on amending the Act on combating doping in sport aims to introduce the following specific solutions: the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, the setting up of a legal entity, the definition of the scope of the action and the identification of its bodies with their scope of tasks, the definition of the principles of financial economy of the laboratory, the definition of rules for financing anti-doping analyses of competitors within the national research programme of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, the establishment of a unit for managing the player's passport and the definition of the scope of the action... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Excuse me, Mr. Senator. There's so much noise in the courtroom that we can't hear the Senator rapporteur very well. If there's anything anyone needs to talk about, go to the clowns. Please, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. One of the pillars of the national doping system in sport is accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, an anti-doping laboratory. Such an entity is the Department of Anti-Doping Research of the Institute of Sport in Poland. The State Research Institute, one of the 32 accredited laboratories in the world. The World Anti-Doping Agency launched its reform plan in 2016. It envisages developing new solutions, including the functioning of accredited anti-doping laboratories, their financial and operational independence. In the case of Poland, it has been repeatedly claimed that the laboratory functioning within the Institute of Sports The State Research Institute is not a fully independent entity. In particular, WADA raised doubts about the fact that the recipient of the grant granted under the Sports Act was the Institute of Sport, the State Research Institute, and not directly the Department of Anti-Doping Research. In addition, it was pointed out that the functioning of the Anti-Doping Research Facility within the Institute of Sport, one of the objectives of which is to optimise performance in competitive sport, could lead to conflicts of interest with the objectives of the laboratory. Recommendations prepared by the expert group mean the need to separate the Institute for Anti-Doping Research The State Research Institute. Due to the fact that the international standard for laboratories is binding on accredited laboratories, the failure to comply with its assumptions will result in the withdrawal of WADA accreditation. The draft law on amending the act on combating doping in sport assumes the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, i.e. the entity responsible for carrying out anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players. The laboratory will act as a national legal entity, as provided for in the Act. Separation of the laboratory from the structure of the Sport Institute The State Research Institute gives it the opportunity to achieve financial and operational independence. The draft law sets out the tasks of the newly appointed entity, which include: carrying out the activities necessary to maintain the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency and the national accreditation body for compliance with the ISO standard in research laboratories, conducting anti-doping analyses of samples of physiological players and animals, carrying out research projects in the field of combating doping in sport, national and international cooperation in research and development. In addition to the basic activities of the laboratory, it will carry out toxicological analyses, including in cooperation with the Police, with the courts, the prosecutor, the Customs and Scarb Service, the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector, hospitals, research institutes and the Military Gendarmery. All activities related to maintaining the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency also serve to fulfil the international obligations of Poland under the Anti-Doping Convention of the Council of Europe and the International Convention against Doping in Sport, which our country is party to. Possession of such a laboratory is also a prestige which strengthens the country's position as part of the world's fight against doping in sport and is one of the decisive factors for granting the state international sporting events, with the world championships and the Olympic Games at the head. The draft law sets out the principles of the financial management of the laboratory. For the financing of the activities of the current laboratory related to the performance of its tasks, the laboratory will receive an entity grant from the State budget. The proposed law allows the laboratory to conduct business activities in the performance of certain of its tasks, as well as in the activities of the operator's passport management unit. This means that the economic activity carried out by the laboratory must be related to the carrying out of anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players and animals or the carrying out of research projects to combat doping in sport or to conducting toxicological analyses outside the basic activity. The proposed law creates a team working at the laboratory for managing the player's passport. The draft provides for the entry into force of the amendments in question on 1 January 2019. It is also the date of entry into force of the amendments to the international standard for laboratories and the entry into force of the new WADA technical documents laying down the rules for the operation of accredited laboratories, including the document concerning the operator's passport management units. During the meeting, High Senate, the committee carefully took note of the comments on the draft law presented by the Legislative Bureau. Consequently, these comments were adopted unanimously in the vote and are included in print No 1009 A. What is the point of these amendments? I'm just gonna give them a little bit of an introduction right now. So they're going to standardize the definition of the results of the anti-doping analysis of physiological samples, that's Amendment 3 in the compilation. In addition, they aim to harmonise the provisions of the Act in such a way that the lack of full capacity for legal action is always an obstacle to appointment to selected posts; this concerns the position of a member of the board of agencies, the director of the agency, a member of the laboratory board and a director of the laboratory. These are Amendments 1, 2 and 5 and 6. The next amendment, Amendment 4 in the compilation, is only a correction of grammatical error. The next amendment, No 7, concerns the deletion of the reference to the no longer applicable law on the principles of science financing. High Senate, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt a draft resolution on the adoption of the bill with amendments in print no. 1009 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u12	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr Jan Widera, Undersecretary of State, whom I welcome, and Mr Michał Krynkowski, Director of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Jan Widera: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the Senator rapporteur discussed the principles of the bill in very detail, I will provide only a few information, very interesting and important, which shows how important this laboratory is to us. This is one of the 31 laboratories accredited in the world. The next laboratory is located east of Warsaw, Ladies and Gentlemen, only in Beijing. Currently, our Warsaw laboratory, a Polish laboratory, performs about 4 000 samples and additional 2 000 samples from other federations, countries or associations each year. This shows that we are fighting not only in the area of domestic doping but also worldwide. That is why I ask for a positive vote. So much for me. Thank you very much. If there are any questions, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u14	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Jan Widera: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: information on the status of respect for human and citizens' freedoms and rights in 2017 and on the Ombudsman's activities. The text of the information is provided in print No 839. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of the information at its meeting on 4 October 2018. I would like to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, present at the Senate meeting. I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u15	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On the basis of the article. 212 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland was sent to the Senate on 30 May this year. comprehensive information on the activities of the Ombudsman and the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms in Poland in 2017. Today, due to the limited time, I will allow myself to discuss only the selected issues. First of all, I would like to stress that the Ombudsman is the most common recipient of citizens' complaints in the country. The number of new complaints has generally remained unchanged for years and remains at more than 20,000 complaints. These are systemic issues, which have existed for years, but also new issues related to current problems. Knowing about human problems, the Ombudsman's office draws from letters and reported cases, but also from meetings and conversations with specific people during organized regional trips. As a spokesman, I take part in such trips quite regularly. Since the beginning of my term, I have visited with my team a total of over 140 towns. And in each of these cities and towns, in each of these villages, we were able to look closely at citizens' problems and gain sensitivity beyond the borders of the big cities. I would also like to stress that we receive a lot of questions and requests for intervention from Members and Senators. We try to answer each of these requests with maximum kindness, with the maximum involvement of my associates. I would like to stress that, in the current systemic realities, the role of notary of human harm and lawyer of citizens' rights is becoming increasingly complex. It requires consistency and primacy when it comes to upholding the standards of democracy and meeting statutory objectives, and at the same time it requires a search for solutions that will help improve the situation of citizens in the conditions in which we have come to work. Therefore, the question often arises as to how much primacy and pragmatism should be involved in the Ombudsman's activities. How to protect the rights of citizens in a country where politicians and politicians are increasingly taking over new areas of public life and the subjectivity of citizens is limited and, at the same time, the number of complaints against public institutions remains similar in previous years, and there is a high level of lack of confidence in the activities of public authorities? I would like to stress that my answer is determination to remain faithful to the existing constitution and, at the same time, to seek solutions that will best serve to protect citizens' rights. I am consistently trying to fight for the righting of human harm wherever possible today. I also create places to debate and develop the best possible solutions. An example of this is the First Civil Rights Congress, which took place in December 2017. More than 1 thousand 500 people participated in 36 discussion panels. At the end of the information about the Ombudsman's activities is attached a set of recommendations that were developed after this congress. A very specific set of recommendations on what should be improved in the functioning of our country. I would like to inform you that this year there will be another congress, 14 and 15 December 2018. I would like to stress that the objective of my action, both in the area of justice and in other areas, has never been and is not to maintain this state that exists. Because that's not how I read citizens' expectations. I would always like to look for a way to talk, to talk about how changes should take place, how to improve the justice system, how to take care of the effectiveness of proceedings, how to fight the length of proceedings, how to bring the courts closer to human needs. I see all these problems. All these problems are the subject of numerous speeches addressed to, for example, the Ministry of Justice But at the same time it is aware that any reform must mean that the standards of judicial independence and good cooperation with the courts of other Member States of the European Union must be respected at the same time. In preparing the report for 2017, we looked at the activities of the Ombudsman, as well as the problems occurring in Poland, through the prism of specific provisions of the Constitution. In every area we analyze It can be said that the recipe after the recipe How the Constitution is respected, what has changed, what has not changed, where there are fundamental problems with respect to rights and freedoms. As regards the Ombudsman's activities, we try to illustrate this with concrete examples of actions, speeches, debates. I would also like to stress that this way of preparing the annual report is linked to the desire to show that there is a strong direct link between the way public institutions operate and the state of compliance with our rights and civil liberties. Behind every letter, there's a living man behind every case that's been reported. If there are protests of entire environments, e.g. parents of people with disabilities... They do not come out of nowhere, but are most often preceded by numerous complaints or requests made through the Ombudsman. At the same time, I would like to stress that with all the consequences I see these actions of the state which serve people well. They support, from the material and legal point of view, the exercise of their citizens' rights. I am thinking here of programmes for families and their children, legislative changes to strengthen the position of workers, or some of the steps on the better collection of child support. As the Ombudsman, I appreciate the direction of change. I also see that, thanks to the activity of the state, statistics are improving, for example, in terms of better collection of child support or the quality of functioning of the State Labour Inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to the legislative changes that concern the constitutional system. My greatest concern is the non-compliance with the constitutional principle of social dialogue and the cooperation of the authorities, which is manifested inter alia. lack of consultation of drafts of many important laws. I regret that some laws can be adopted • go through the whole legislative process within a very short period of time. The question arises as to how mistakes can then be avoided, how can these errors be seen in time and thus not cause harm to citizens. I would like to stress that we are at a particular moment We are discussing legislative changes concerning common courts, the National Courts Council and the Supreme Court in a situation where these problems have been discussed several times in this House; I myself have tried to be part of this debate. I believe that the changes made to the functioning of the General Courts and the National Judicial Council increase the impact of political factors on the functioning of the judiciary and, consequently, weaken the system of protection of human rights, as independent courts guarantee the protection of civil rights and freedoms. I also see a very limited role of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this context, it is necessary to mention the situation of the Supreme Court. It was in 2017 that this House has repeatedly discussed its independence. This is where, using the possibility of appearing in the Senate, I have observed the consequences for our European cooperation, including the use of the European arrest warrant. I did not even expect that such a debate would actually take place later in the European forum. This concerns, for example, the issuing of decisions on the application of the European arrest warrant to Polish citizens residing abroad. It is here that the famous words about free courts will be remembered by free people. And that's why I'm glad that the Supreme Court's independence It was thanks to civil society that it was maintained and that civil society's protests made it possible to see this problem related to the threat to the independence of the Supreme Court. [[Applause]] I would like to stress that in Poland there are numerous restrictions on our rights and freedoms of a personal and political nature. Freedom of assembly is the best example of this, including what has happened as a result of the restriction of freedom of assembly, namely the police response and violation of the right to organise counter-manifestation. Fortunately, in many cases the courts were able to properly assess the violation of the right to attend meetings and properly assess the actions of the police. I would also like to point out that the threats to the protection of the right to privacy arising from the existence of a number of laws giving police and special services broad powers in the application of operational control and the collection of telecommunications, postal and online data, in particular checking, verifying phone records and geolocation data, have not been removed. Both the extent of the data collected about the individual and the continuous lack of effective judicial control over the process of obtaining and using the data raise doubts. On this subject, the Venice Commission issued a comprehensive report. The recommendations of this report have not actually been implemented until today. Nor has the problem of non-compliance with the Constitutional Tribunal judgment on financial benefits for caretakers of adults with disabilities been resolved in previous years. This is a special example. The sentence should be executed. Failure to implement it forces guardians to seek the justice they deserve by initiating long-term proceedings before administrative courts, which do not always end in success and can be initiated by a relatively small number of people. This is the difference, whether you receive support of PLN 1 thousand 477 or PLN 520, because this is the difference in terms of benefits granted to carers of adults with disabilities, depending on when the child's disability was created, the person they are caring for. I would also like to stress that, despite the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we are still far from ensuring the right to independent living and the right to a decent life for such persons and their guardians. The protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm has shown how important this problem is. I would like to stress that I appreciate the emergence of the government's programme, the availability of Plus, because this is a real step towards making public space available, websites, many different spaces with which people with disabilities meet and which are accessible to everyone. This is a program for promoting universal design, but this is not enough, because there are still many barriers, not just physical, technological barriers, which hinder the exercise of the right to independent living for people with disabilities. Moreover, this is the space in which we see the specific islandism of our country's action, i.e. that some problems can sometimes be solved at local level thanks to good cooperation between local authorities and NGOs, but there is, I would say, a uniform approach at a higher level when it comes to the whole country. I would also like to stress that the consequences of post-war expropriations and nationalisation have still not been regulated, and we are still waiting for a comprehensive reprivatisation bill to allow a targeted solution to the problem. To date, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015 ruling the partial non-constitutionality of a provision enabling the annulment of an administrative decision taken in gross violation of the law without any time limit has not even been enforced. This situation undermines the legal certainty of the participants in legal transactions. We also see with concern an increase in the number of crimes motivated by prejudice or even hatred, e.g. to persons of other race, ethnic origin or nationality and religion. We are alerting the relevant authorities of the state, in particular the police and the prosecutor's office. I would like to stress that according to a study recently carried out by my office with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, only 5% so-called. hate crimes are reported to the authorities of the State. Unfortunately, there is a dominant approach based on mistrust over the actions of state authorities. So that's the other 95%. it is not reported, it is mainly due to a lack of confidence, the belief that with such a case whatever happens, that the authorities of the state will deal with it properly. I would also like to stress that there is still much to be done in Poland regarding respect for the rights of homosexuals and those of the same sex, but also in the fight against homophobia. It is also necessary to introduce a gender reconciliation procedure for transgender people, which will not force them to sue their parents, resulting in further traumatic experiences. An important part of the Ombudsman's work is the issue of parents' rights in the context of the functioning of the modern family. In this respect, I work closely with the spokesperson for the rights of the child, Mr. Mark Michalak. The problems of non-payment of child support, parents' relations with children after divorce, problems of cross-border marriages, the fight against domestic violence, the situation of parents caring for people with disabilities are problems that are still of interest to me and are the subject of various actions. In June this year, because of this and because it is a matter of great public interest, we organised a large congress of parental rights, which was attended by representatives of various backgrounds, including the environment of disadvantaged fathers. I believe that there is a need for dialogue, dialogue and understanding in this area of life that social change, a changing family model, poses additional challenges for state authorities. Effective and effective courts are also needed, since any delay in family proceedings can have tragic consequences for family life and for the lives of individual parents. In this respect, I would like to appreciate the initiatives, as well as the legislative changes recently adopted, which improve the effectiveness of cross-border proceedings and, in a sense, centralise state efforts to respond to the different needs of the courts of other Member States in this area. The Ombudsman's Office also takes many steps to protect women's rights. In the year in which we celebrate the century of women's election rights, we should consider whether their rights are actually being fully implemented. I am talking about women's rights in the context of the right to health protection, the actual implementation of the law on family planning and conditions of abortion, the availability of in vitro therapy, the fight against domestic violence, the balancing of professional and private roles or the care of perinatal persons. This is still a list of things to sort out. Moreover, in this respect it is clear that there is a difference between wealthy women living in large cities and those living in smaller cities who are less wealthy. The privatisation of public services solves some of the problems here, but it makes the situation worse for people who live further away from the centre worse. The Ombudsman's next actions concern discrimination against older people in health care, access to various services, and above all support for them in their place of residence instead of offering them institutional care, i.e. the creation of large institutions, the isolation of seniors, the forgetfulness of them. It's something called institutionalization of care. We should do everything we can to lead to the so-called. deinstitutionalisation, i.e. giving up these large protection centres for individual support as close as possible to the place of residence. In this respect, during my regional trips, I try to organise meetings at the level of individual powiats concerning the promotion of the model of support for older people in the place of residence. Several such meetings took place, e.g. Stargard Szczecinski, Krapkowice or Leszno. As part of the work of the Ombudsman's office, we try to alert ourselves to problems that are not perceived from the perspective of large cities. There are places in Poland where the exclusion of transport becomes an increasing problem, where a young person who finishes high school chooses not a school that suits her talents and interests, but one that can simply be reached. This is also a problem of access to specialist doctors and the problem of opportunities for the daily activity of seniors. I would like to stress that violations of human rights affect in Poland precisely the weakest ones, those who cannot claim or for various reasons do not have a chance to do so. In this context, I would like to mention three groups that have a particularly difficult situation, although each of them is different. The first are those affected by the homeless crisis. We still have over 30,000 people affected by the homeless crisis. We need to change our thinking about homelessness. It is necessary to think about homelessness in such a way that it is a crisis from which one can come out, and the state is used to give a helping hand, regardless of whether a homeless person lives in Poland or is a Polish citizen living outside Poland, because such people are also affected by this crisis. Often, because their own dignity does not allow them to do so, they do not even decide to return to their own country, they decide to continue to remain homeless. This is an area where cooperation between NGOs and local authorities can bring many benefits, but it is also an area where a great deal can be done if efforts at central level are properly coordinated. The second group of people are people affected by the mental health crisis. This is a section of our general difficult situation in health care. We are well aware that it is difficult to discuss the right to health protection in a situation of insufficient financial resources, but also the wrong organisation of health services. This mental health crisis is something very special. Again: in this respect, we must act to give up institutional care in large, large psychiatric hospitals for help at the place of residence. I am pleased to launch a pilot programme from 1 July that changes the mental health system, because it is an important swallow of change. I hope that the implementation of this pilot programme will lead to permanent changes in the field of mental health protection. Finally, the third group of people of this kind, I think, is particularly imperceptible from the perspective of the big cities, but it seems to me that particularly known to you as Senators of the Republic of Poland, because the state, because of its mandate, has direct contact with voters. In particular, people living in rural areas who are affected by the consequences of various energy, construction or industrial investments. These are often people in a lost position. They do not have the strength, determination, knowledge, legal qualifications to limit such investments or simply participate in discussions to obtain information in the manner of accessing public information, to join proceedings, to exercise the right to petition. These are issues of September, problems of Bakałarzew, problems of Saw and many other Polish towns. And here I see my role as that I am both trying to strengthen these people, intervene where I can, and join the proceedings, often with good results. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, the Ombudsman, is also an organ that deals with the rights of those deprived of liberty. Under the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Torture, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment, the Ombudsman has the task of continuously monitoring all places of imprisonment in Poland, both prisons, arrests of investigators, as well as psychiatric hospitals, social assistance houses, youth education centres, correction centres, etc., all places where a person without his own will is deprived of freedom. We also receive a lot of complaints from people who are deprived of freedom, especially those who are incarcerated. And this is a great challenge for us to combine prevention measures, which include ongoing monitoring of the situation in these places, with actions to respond to individual complaints. In 2017, representatives of the National Prevention Mechanism carried out a total of almost 100 visits, from which they learned certain conclusions and presented them to the authorities. I would like to stress that we still have a lot of problems: overcrowding in prisons, the situation of people with disabilities, low standards of healthcare. These are, I'd say, the most important problems with the prisons themselves. As I am talking about overcrowding in prisons, I am not just talking about the fact that we do not respect the standard that has been proposed to us for years and recommended by the Council of Europe Committee on Torture, Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment, which says that we should have 4 m2 per prisoner, but I am also talking about the fact that there are still prisons in Poland where more than 10 people are in prison. Imagine that more than 10 people, and I have been for such purposes 13-, 14-, 15-persons, live with each other all the time in a big room, because it is 50.60 m2. These dozens of people stay together for 23 hours a day. This is not a standard that we should allow in a Member State of the European Union, a country that is referred to as that which respects such fundamental rights. So it seems to me that, for example, limiting the existence of 10-person targets should be an extremely important request. But since we are talking about low standards of health care, I would like to mention that in 2017 we thoroughly investigated the death of Ms. Agnieszka Pysz, who died in an arrest in Warsaw as a result of the failure to provide medical assistance. Our examination of the case led to the fact that even the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the Polish Sejm did so, and Mr Patryk, on the committee, apologized to Mrs Agnieszka Pysz's mother for what happened to her. These are stories that incredibly trigger our imaginations, which show that any negligence in terms of compliance with standards can lead to great tragedies, tragedies that could have been avoided if we had only taken better care of these issues. A completely separate problem related to issues that people are complaining about is the functioning of the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin. This problem is known to the honourable state, as the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the Senate of the Republic has repeatedly dealt with this issue, and more and more press articles are appearing on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to deal with this problem. We are able to lead to the fact that... If such a centre must exist in Poland, it should function as if the German centre in Rosdorf, and should be subject to appropriate legal regulations at the level of the law, not at the level of the internal regulations of the director of the centre in Gostynin. I would like to stress that in 2017. The Tortur National Prevention Mechanism has prepared extensive material analysing final judgments for the use of torture in 2008 and 2015 which were related to the sentence of imprisonment for public officials for the use of torture. During this time, 33 police officers in 22 criminal cases have been convicted during these eight years. If I'm talking about torture, I'm really talking about torture. I'm not talking about a situation where an officer crosses the line of direct coercion, e.g. during demonstrations or at the time of the arrest of a person, but I am talking about a situation where police officers in isolated areas use violence against those deprived of liberty, humiliate them, force them to testify and use methods that cannot be defined otherwise than torture. Like I said, in these eight years, 33 police officers have been convicted. I believe that since we live in a country where we are said to be a memorial of times when human rights were violated in our homeland, and that is why we are establishing a catalogue of civil rights and freedoms, so we are establishing an absolute ban on torture, we must actually take care to eliminate the use of torture in Poland. The result of my team's research was a large speech to the Minister of Justice, indicating what should be done to remedy this problem. And these are relatively simple things: constant presence of lawyers at police stations; constant monitoring of what is happening at police stations, including monitoring of places that may not be subject to this monitoring; reliable supervision of what is happening with the surveillance footage. I would like to stress that I did not get an answer from the Minister of Justice. I even called on the Prime Minister to motivate the Minister of Justice, but I still didn't get the answer. I would like to say one thing: how are we supposed to fight torture if the Ministry of Justice does not feel like making changes in the functioning of our country, does not feel like legislative changes and does not feel like fixing this problem? I would like to stress once again that the constitution, the preamble, our historical experience obliges us to make Poland a state entirely free from torture. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, In recent years, a new task has been placed on the Ombudsman: the implementation of the mandate of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, which I mentioned, i.e. implementation of this mandate for 10 years; implementation of the principle of equal treatment, i.e. anti-discrimination rules, which Poland has implemented as a result of the implementation of EU directives; monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; as well as monitoring inappropriate police and other services activities, monitoring the situation of officers. If you look at it from the perspective, it all happened in principle without giving sufficient additional funds. And my predecessor, and I have repeatedly said that the implementation of this mandate is extremely difficult. In fact, the fact that we're trying to do our job as honestly as possible without this funding owes me to my wonderful team, my wonderful directors, my directors, my replacements, the Directorate-General, who are here with me and who have the strength to motivate employees to work hard. I would like to thank them very much for this. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last change in the Ombudsman's position to have new tasks is to grant the power to lodge an emergency complaint. The emergency complaint has been discussed in this Chamber on several occasions. But I would like to stress that, after the last legislative change, the right to lodge an emergency complaint in relation to, you can say, history from the past, i.e. for the last 20 years, has a prosecutor general and an ombudsman. So far. And I checked the statistics on November 22nd, and we received 2,000 407 requests for an emergency complaint. I stress: 2,000 407 proposals. Each of these proposals means that we need to read them, read the documents carefully, often download the files and answer them. This is a great effort. It is not that you can answer to the citizens in 5 minutes that we will not bring an emergency complaint. Each proposal requires a great deal of commitment. I would stress here that the handling of applications in a fair and responsible manner, within a reasonable period of time, exceeds the current human and financial capacity of the Ombudsman's Office. In adopting these changes, the economic aspect has been omitted, despite the fact that I have called, including within this House, for additional financial resources to be granted to deal with emergency complaints. I called on the Prime Minister to transfer funds to the Ombudsman's budget or to allocate funds for this purpose from the budgetary reserve. I didn't get a positive answer. I've applied for an appropriate budget for next year, but Based on the experience of this week and the debate that took place in the Committee on Public Finance I'm not sure if it's actually gonna work out. And I would like to stress that this is extremely important. The delegation of additional responsibilities without adequate funding unfortunately causes the relationship between the citizen and the Ombudsman's office to be disturbed, but it is also a matter of building general confidence in the functioning of the State. Nevertheless, I would like to address the institution itself with an emergency complaint. I am aware of the constitutional doubts about this institution, of the fact that it creates an opportunity to challenge final decisions and that this period of 20 years is extremely long. I have expressed these doubts myself. However, as a civil servant responsible for the citizens, I cannot accept that I will not apply this institution. That is why, so far, I have made 2 extraordinary complaints in matters relating to succession law, in cases where, it can be said, this complaint can fulfil its original function, i.e. it can constitute a safety valve which should apply in absolutely exceptional cases. And I hope that in the future, an emergency complaint will only apply in such cases, i.e. in ways in which people's lives cannot be repaired otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very end of my speech, I would like to share my reflection on why people are complaining about the Ombudsman. They complain because there are different problems in our country, old and new. They complain because they are victimized by state authorities or discriminated against in social or economic life. For every human being, his individual injury is the most important one: we can be a mobbed employee; a pensioner affected by the Repressive Act of 16 December 2016 and thus lost a large part of his pension rights; a farmer who was deprived of his father's rights as a result of the action of a road specialist; a father who has no contact with his own children; an entrepreneur who shares with the tax office; a resident who was built a battery factory near the house. Each story is different and one cannot be put over the other, weighing them, because each of these citizens deserves to be heard and reacted. And everyone deserves constitutional protection for their rights and freedoms. But I would like to stress that the role of the Ombudsman is not to nod citizens and tell everyone that, in fact, every citizen who has turned to the Ombudsman has been harmed. Because what else is our subjective sense that we have been wronged, and what else is the assessment made in the light of the constitution and human rights standards resulting from the ratified international agreements. The Ombudsman's task is not only to help, but also to do so professionally. Plus, he must have some great professionals. And just like I said, I'm proud of it. But in order to help, the Ombudsman must also act in the ecosystem of a democratic legal state. Because if erosion occurs and traditional institutions of the democratic state unwind, it becomes more difficult. This is the case if dialogue in lawmaking fails, if public consultation fails or there is no public consultation if compromise solutions are not sought, if there is no cooperation between constitutional authorities of the State. The democratic rule of law and the observance of the rights and freedoms of individuals cannot be guaranteed if the mechanisms for the protection of rights and freedoms, which are independent courts and the independent Constitutional Court, are failing. Without independent institutions, especially courts, a citizen is sentenced to arbitrary power and his rights may not be respected. I would like to say that as a spokesman, I will do everything in my power to help citizens, and I will look for solutions. If we can help another person, another group excluded, it's worth every effort. I will also demand, consistently and firmly, respect for their civil rights, because respect for civil rights is the duty of every body of state, and it is my role to insist on it, to remind and to pursue it. And it's got nothing to do with that. With politics. It is simply my testimony to the proper performance of the task entrusted to me by the Sejm and the Senate in mid-2015. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u16	Thank you. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Spokesman a question? Senator Klich has come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u17	I have a few questions, but they're extensive, so I guess in a couple of tours... First of all, I hope you know this report, Mr. Ombudsman. This is the second report prepared by independent institutions in Poland showing the scale of repression of the PiS apparatus against the citizens you spoke about, i.e. those who exercise constitutional rights and civil liberties. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] You mentioned that you have recently observed that you have recently observed an increased scale of events in which civil rights, including freedom of assembly, are not respected. This report states that some 1 000 such cases have been reported to independent institutions. Well, according to my estimate, there's over 2,000 of these cases because not everyone's checking in. Speech, among others. about what was most visible from the windows of this House, i.e. the protests at the Sejm... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but there was supposed to be a question. The discussion will continue.]] ... about protests in defense of independent courts, street activities, etc. That's all we saw with the naked eye. Do you have statistics, and if you do, please give them the scale of repression to those who exercise the constitutional right to assembly, defending this right against the apparatus of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u19	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senator, Of course, I am in constant and regular contact with all non-governmental organisations that may be affected by the application of the convention law and may also be affected by police activities. One could say that the main cause of most of these cases is two situations. First of all, the organization of counter-manifestations in relation to the demonstrations taking place on the tenth of each month... [[Voice from the room: 3 days...]] ...that took place... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...and numerous legitimacy, arresting citizens in this context. Secondly, protests related to the Bialowieza Forest... [[Before the Seym and before the Senate...]] And, of course, the events of 16, 17 and 18 December 2016 as a third cause. And now I am. What we are trying to do in these situations is to adopt the following method of action. Firstly, we are trying to take an interest in these matters at the stage of police action and at the stage of the prosecution's action. We try these stories, you can say, explain, try to intervene, seek answers, mostly from the police. We did this, you could say, a comprehensive summary of this state of affairs. It is in our report, which we published this year, which refers to the freedom to organize peaceful assemblies. This is a comprehensive report that presents all these threats and consequences of the assembly. This is the first case. Then I'd like to point out that these things are a little bit I'm speaking in quotes. They're dying of vision when they're in court, because the ombudsman in criminal and criminal cases can't interfere with the ongoing proceedings. The Ombudsman's Act clearly states that when it comes to civil, judicial and administrative matters, we can join in, we can bring actions, administrative complaints, and we cannot do so when it comes to criminal cases. These things, some of them, they come to us anyway, appear at the cassation stage. But it just so happens that in the case of these cases, in the case of a large part of them, the courts, you can say, stand at the level of the task and evaluate it correctly from the point of view of guaranteeing the freedom of peaceful assembly. Well, as an ombudsman, I can't blame myself for not being able to file a cassation later if the courts had responded earlier and properly assessed these cases. Indeed, these judgments and these cases were relatively many, but of course not in all cases this was the case. And so on. When it comes to the Bialowieza Forest and the protests that took place there, we managed to direct several cancellations to the Supreme Court. In any event, in the context of the demonstration, there have been situations which should not have taken place at all. They were described in the report, they were the subject of my speech. It seems to me that one of these most illustrative situations took place on 11 November 2017, when people associated with Polish citizens were preventively detained and transported to a police station on the street. Smolna, therefore, they could not exercise their right to attend the convention later. I've been explaining this case. Later it was also clarified by the court, it was assessed as a violation of the law in the context of deprivation of personal liberty, even for a few hours. So, unfortunately, in some of these situations you can see such, I would say, an uneven approach from the police and the prosecution's office to such cases. It can be said that police and prosecutorial services have been increased in relation to some demonstrators and have been reduced in relation to others. As for statistics, I can't say that I have very specific statistics right now. Rather, we try to analyze every case that comes to us, as thoroughly as possible, and then learn from it. The result of this report is the presentation of a whole range of recommendations on what changes should be made in the law on assemblies, as well as in the way the police and prosecutors act. And, unfortunately, these recommendations have not been made until today. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u20	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have to ask, because there's a graph in this report. He is extremely important because he shows that in the wake of all the demonstrations under the Seym and the Senate... I would like to remind you that the most important events took place in December 2016, when the budget was adopted illegally, then in July 2017, when 3 laws were adopted to abolish the independence of the Polish judiciary, then in December 2017. This was another wave of demonstrations. About a month later, and therefore in August and September 2017 and January and February 2018 there was a rapid The increase in the number of repressions against citizens taking part in these legal assemblies. Most of them are summoned to interrogation, before being subjected, so to speak, to legitimacy... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] ...and finally, various pre-trial fines are applied to them in the style of mandates. Do you have data on these matters? I'm asking because they're crucial from the point of view of the work we're doing here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u23	Dear Senator, yes, we have that data. I'd like us to take a look at the Ombudsman's report, the book containing the report, on pages 262 to 267. There we devote a handsome few pages to describing these most important, fundamental issues related to the assemblies. I stress that in each of these cases we have tried to intervene. We have seen various types of sanctions that have been applied to the participants of the assembly: requisition of equipment, legitimacy of persons, then directing requests for payment orders, court proceedings, lack of protection for certain police assemblies. When we talk about 2016, one of the major problems was the publicisation of the faces of the participants of the assembly by the police. In my opinion, the police have no right to do so, there is no legal basis for seeking the convention participants. This problem hasn't been solved until today either. Interestingly, also recently, in the context of the manifestation of 11 November 2018, the police published the faces of those who used flares, and in my opinion there is no reason to look for them via the website either. All of this, the fact that we have prepared this report, the fact that we spend so much time ago, is precisely because we see an increase in police interest, an imbalance in legal protection. But what's most important to us is to show how it applies to human rights standards. It's all we're talking about that's what's causing the so-called. The effect of the freezing human rights doctrine knows the concept of the freezing effect, i.e. that people who may be subject to various types of sanctions from national authorities will not choose to participate in demonstrations, will not decide to go to the demonstration because they know that they may face various types of sanctions. But when I look at the whole functioning of the state from a bird's eye, I am very comforted by the role of orchards, the active attitude of the courts, the fact that in most cases the courts were able to demonstrate the protection of personal freedom and the freedom to organise peaceful assembly in such situations. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u24	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My questions concern 2 laws, one is called surveillance, the other is called counter-terrorism, which entered into force in 2016 and were challenged by the Ombudsman. The Constitutional Tribunal was not gracious to deal with these proposals, and they concern, well, very sensitive cases, the collection of Internet, telecommunications, postal data, the restriction of professional, notarial and attorney-client secrecy, here is the issue of control of the collection of data, in fact the right to unlimited collection of our sensitive data. The same is true in the case of an anti-terrorist law. Does the Ombudsman's office have the knowledge of the scale of citizens' surveillance, and in the opinion of the Ombudsman, have these laws given tools that power overly exploits to citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u27	Thank you very much. I think this is a fundamental question about the boundaries of our right to privacy and what is happening to our constitutional order. As the senator rightly pointed out, I actually sued the Constitutional Tribunal after they were adopted. For so-called. the surveillance law, i.e. the amendment of telecommunications law, and the anti-terrorist law, should also be added an extremely important law, namely the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which removed the ban on the use of the so-called 'terrorist law'. the fruit of the poisoned tree, i.e. it allowed the use of evidence obtained in an illegal manner, including. as a result of illegal surveillance. The problem with these laws, in my opinion, is... I challenged them to the Court and then watched the trial. Firstly, I observed a change in the formation of the Court of Justice, which, in my opinion, was not in line with the internal rules of the Court. And secondly, I have observed that in the process of identifying these cases, people who are not allowed to rule will be judged. I've made appropriate requests to exclude these people from judgment. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And it can be said that these two arguments have ruled that I should withdraw these cases from the Constitutional Court. And to be honest, I did it with great regret, but at the same time with great responsibility, because I was afraid that giving a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal would lead to a kind of legitimacy of this state of affairs and will actually change our interpretation of the Constitution, because in circulation we will have a published ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal which will force us to interpret it differently. If we are talking about these issues, it is also worth remembering that the opinion of the Venice Commission has been issued in this area, which is comprehensively evaluating the issues related to surveillance. And this opinion of the Venice Commission indicates what should be improved in the Polish legal system. It seems to me that the most important thing at all is the creation of an independent body that would control the activities of the special forces, because the current judicial review seems to be insufficient. At present, when it comes to the use of billings, geolocation data and Internet data, judicial review is based solely on the fact that police and special services are to provide statistical data once every six months. That's it, and that's it. We are not even able to learn from these statistics what this really means. As regards the use of wiretapping and operational control, the procedure is different because each time it should be either the prior consent of the court, or at least the subsequent consent of the court. I think it's too soon... that at a time when there's no independent authority, and I also have limited possibilities to ask in such situations, it's hard to tell how this surveillance is going in practice. Please note that we, as a general public, used to learn about these situations when there was, I don't know, a data leak or some information leaked about it. However, I believe that what is lacking in Poland is simply in a world of good system and good regulation, because their lack creates an excessive possibility of interfering in our right to privacy. And as long as this authority does not arise, we will be threatened by this, and in my opinion the courts do not have sufficient powers in this regard. [[I'd like to ask if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u28	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u29	If phone records are available because these data are probably available, would you like to tell us what the scale is here and whether this scale is growing or decreasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u30	I can't recall at this point, but I have the impression that when it comes to this data, it's maintained, as far as I can remember, at a relatively stable level. This level was always quite high, because in the case of these data it exceeded over a million checks per year. But in my opinion, it is impossible to draw excessive conclusions from them, because we do not really know, and we cannot find out from the statistics on whom these checks relate. And so on. In the case of a missing person, the police are investigating 100 people or thousands of people and their phone records, but we do not know if the same is true of non-governmental activists, politicians, against, I do not know, journalists or lawyers, etc. It is difficult to learn from such general data what is really behind them and how the ability to perform billing checks is used. And when it comes to eavesdropping and operational control, it's usually a few tens of thousands a year. And again, we would have to look at very specific issues to draw far-reaching conclusions from it. I don't have that data, and I wouldn't want to create some kind of false picture of reality here. All I can say is that the whole system is far from human rights standards. And it is worth saying that I know that NGOs have prepared comprehensive complaints to the European Court of Human Rights concerning this. Such cases have previously been dealt with by the Strasbourg Court, so that we must probably expect the Strasbourg Court to address this problem. But anyway, I am really calling for a look at the opinion of the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission has done a great deal of work in assessing our surveillance regulations, and basically this work comes down to the fact that it is on the shelf, that is, it is not the subject of a permanent debate, and this is the best testimony, which could be changed in Poland and to what extent. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u31	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Mr Ombudsperson, I have witnessed your participation in a committee meeting in the European Parliament in Brussels. I'm impressed with your impeccable English. And thank you for that. That was beautiful. But also a very substantive and substantive speech, which also received the recognition of European Parliamentarians, not only of Europeans, but also of colleagues from the governing coalition. So much for entry. You've already said a lot about the Venice Commission. I would like you to bring this very important debate to the European Parliament a little bit. That would be part of the question. But I also have two specific questions, sort of from the point of view of our voters. Namely, do similar problems that were discussed in the European Parliament last Tuesday have any other countries of the European Union or other democratic countries? That is the first question, of course, concerning legislation. And the second question is very specific. Is your Ombudsman affected by disciplinary actions against judges? And if they are, why are they directed? These are the two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u34	Thank you very much. Thank you for your kind words about my speech in the LIBE Committee of the European Parliament. It was a debate organised under the rule of law investigation procedure in Poland. The LIBE Commission is now preparing a report which, I understand, will be the basis for further action by the European Parliament and then by the Council of the European Union. And this debate was devoted to, you can say, reviewing the situation, what is happening in Poland at the moment. He was Vice-President of the European Commission Frans Timmermans, then appointed Minister Ziobro, but Minister Ziobro did not appear in Brussels. Later they took the floor: a representative of the Venice Commission, a representative of the European Network of Councils of Courts, my person; and later there were the voices of representatives of non-governmental organisations and the academic community. The discussion referred primarily to Poland and, of course, to the situation related to the Supreme Court, the National Council of Courts, common courts. But of course what is of interest to the European institutions is the rule of law situation in Hungary. Hungary has, I think, been of particular interest for years, but, I think, recently especially. There were also voices on these threats to the rule of law. Of course, the relevant procedures have not yet been initiated for Bulgaria and Romania, as well as in the context of Italy. I think the Hungarian situation is different from ours, both because the changes have been taking place there for many years, and because what has been of particular interest lately is 2 issues. First of all, restricting academic freedom, which is really denying the ability of the Central European University to operate in Budapest In my opinion, this is an unprecedented event that affects the activities of an independent university and, secondly, the situation of non-governmental organisations dealing with assistance to migrants and refugees. I have friends who work in organizations like this. The scale of repression against them is really extremely serious. Of course, the main debate concerned Poland. Different opinions were expressed. In my speech, I drew particular attention to the situation of the National Judicial Council and its mode of operation and, consequently, the threat to the right to an independent court. What is very important here is disciplinary proceedings concerning judges. In fact, complaints from judicial organisations are brought to the Ombudsman's office, from the judges themselves, who are connected with the current situation. Namely, we are currently dealing with proceedings which are in the explanatory phase, but in a explanatory phase which, as it were, allows the summoning of judges and their hearing as witnesses by disciplinary agents. Discipline lawyers shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice by individual decision. They are judges, but appointed by the Minister of Justice. We do now, I'd call it, five types of cases that are going on. The first type are cases which concern the questioning of preliminary rulings by judges. The Judges shall be asked by the disciplinary officer whether, in fact, in the situation in question, it was appropriate to ask the question for a preliminary ruling whether, perhaps, these questions were excessive. I'm gonna make this brief, but that's the bottom line. This is the situation of Judge Maciejewska and Judge Tulea. The second type is to clarify cases where a disciplinary spokesperson has doubts as to whether the judges have sometimes exceeded the limits of justification by referring to the political situation in the explanatory memorandum. This is the situation of Judge Jęka, who gave the sentence acquittaling Mrs Jaśkowiak. There, allegedly, in the opinion of the Disciplinary Board, it should be clarified that there were political comments by the judge in the statement of reasons for the decision. The third type of case is related to the public activity of judges. These are primarily cases concerning Judge Kristian Markiewicz, President of Iustitia, Judge Przymusiński and Judge Tulea, who are being called to the hearing by the Disciplinary Ombudsman, Judge Radzik, in relation to their comments on the reform of the judiciary. These cases have an additional dimension because, in one case, in the case of Judge Tulea's hearing, Judge Tulei's lawyer, Mr Jacek Dubois, who, in fact, filed a separate complaint with the Ombudsman's office, claimed that in this context the right of defence could be infringed and that the situation of exclusion of the lawyer from the possibility of hearing a witness is unprecedented. Finally, the fourth type of case. These are cases involving Judge Frąckowiak and Judge Arkadiusz Krupa, cases relating to the use of the toga and the judicial chain outside the courtroom during the simulation or, as it was called by the disciplinary officer, the parody of the court. This was about the Pol-and-Rock festival in Kostrzyn nad Odra. The judges must provide explanations as to the context and why they participated in the simulation of the court. These are the four types. Plus, I'd add the fifth type that's a little bit different, because it's not about disciplinary action, it's about Judge Waldemar Żurek's case, which we're also trying to deal with. The judge was transferred without his consent from one court department to the other court department and claims that this is a situation which may constitute Chasing him for his work. All the more so since this shift is not only neutral, it is a transfer from the civil appeal department to the civil primary department. From a judge's point of view, this may not be a typical shift between a higher and a lower instance, but as far as professional prestige is concerned, this has a specific meaning. And we're trying this case too. I would say that in dialogue with the President of the District Court in Krakow, explain. In any event, I believe that these disciplinary proceedings, although they are at the point of clarification, again pose a risk of the so-called. a freezing effect on the functioning of the courts. These possibilities of action, practice, also the establishment of a Disciplinary Chamber of Supreme Courts This is all very concrete threats to judicial independence. And very well, in my opinion, they arouse public interest. It should also arouse my interest as a spokesman, because at the end of the day a citizen will suffer, who will not have the right to an independent court. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u36	Minister, I would like to ask you about the matter that you raised in your report. Namely, if I understand correctly, you said a significant increase in the number of so-called crimes. hate or racial background. I would ask for as precise data as possible, because I am a bit surprised by this information because when I was working at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education in 2016 and in early 2018, I was very interested in these issues, because information about incidents reached the Ministry, we were very careful to monitor them. However, these data from the Police, which I had at the time, did not indicate any significant increase, especially since the number of foreign students in Poland or in general of foreigners in Poland increased significantly. The increase in the number of these crimes was at most proportional, even not, to the increase in the number of foreigners. And I don't really understand, either, in a logical way, even... Because you said that this number has increased and that there are only 5% reported. Crimes. Then how do you know it's 95%? does it happen if they're not reported? Are there any tests being carried out? Because, theoretically, something like this can be determined, but it requires very complicated research to be based on 5%. reported that there is still 95% which are not reported.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u37	May I? Thank you so much for that question. I think that the whole discussion about statistics always causes, you can say, tension. Because when you talk about the problem at all, it's about to come down to a discussion about statistics and that this number stays at a similar level. For me, growth is all about changing the scale... It can be said that the ailment of these hate crimes is changing, because we have much more hate crimes that are physical crimes in relation to what constitutes only speech of hatred. Please note that when the police prepare these comprehensive statistics, it includes all types: art. 119, i.e. crimes of physical violence from hatred or acts of hatred, as well as art. 256 and 257 criminal code, i.e. so-called. Hate speech. And in total, you're right, you're right, at a fairly stable level, but what's the most severe, the number of acts of physical violence out of hate, is increasing. And now... Very good that the senator spoke about the activities of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, because there were even special statements issued by the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, which called for authorities to deal with these matters comprehensively. Speaking of research... We were trying to do, actually we were doing some, you can say, pioneering research on a European scale. We carried out such a project together with the OSCE, namely the so-called scale study. hate crimes that are not reported. That's what I call it. the phenomenon of under-reporting, i.e. there is a problem, but people do not report for various reasons of this problem. This is a study that has been conducted by a very interesting method of identifying 3 groups and describing exactly how these groups function in our community. Here it was a group of Ukrainians, people from sub-Saharan Africa and Muslims. Then a study was carried out by a method which involves identifying individuals from different national groups, conducting an in-depth interview with them, and then they have to identify others and later identify others. So the snowball method gets to a given population and carries out an in-depth interview with these people. And from this interview, we came up with about 95%. hate crimes are not reported. I do not claim that these are all matters related to physical hatred, i.e. national attacks, of course in the vast majority are words, words of hatred. It is also very interesting to examine what is the reason why people do not report these crimes. And that is the problem with the lack of confidence in the operation of state authorities. It is also very interesting to analyze what happens to people, how they begin to change their way of doing things, e.g. They walk in different paths, in other ways, fearing that they will be hurt. I would not like to take too much time here, at the beginning of December we were invited as an office by the Committee on National Minorities and Ethnic Sejm to present this report, and there will be an in-depth discussion on this subject. But I'm glad we're doing this here because, in fact, there's a lot of doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, we will find statistics on the work of the Ombudsman in the relevant documents, reports, and in part you have provided this information. But I have a question. What kind of cases are the most problematic? Were these matters on the patent line - the office or the citizen - the justice system? And were there many such cases against which you were absolutely helpless? That's one thing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I may, I'd like to ask you another question. During my teenage senator service, I have observed that my office is actually most often approached by people who are said to be claimed, i.e. those who, by being reckless, avoiding work, are in a difficult situation of life, and very rarely are people who are not in a difficult situation for their own sake. Does the Ombudsman monitor such cases? Does he, having different instruments, try to make it so ugly that I'm gonna exhale them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u40	Thank you very much. These are very difficult questions, one can say that these are such very cross-cutting questions concerning the whole of the Ombudsman's activities and our various possibilities of action. It seems to me that the fundamental problem with the helplessness of citizens is that they often do not even know what opportunities they have in our country. I'll give you an example. We have dealt with the so-called problem quite intensively. Franc loans. We know that this is a topic of interest for citizens, and we have found that our role, together with Professor Victorov, a financial spokesman, is to provide citizens with at least basic information, what they can do with these loans. We organized meetings in 16 cities, these were information meetings, each meeting was attended by 200 and 300 people. And it turned out that the vast majority of citizens did not know at all about the existence of a financial spokesman, what the complaint procedure looks like and how to deal with this loan. I think that in Poland the situation is that we often build different institutions, we create different solutions, but then we do not necessarily wonder whether it works in practice, whether citizens have real, real access to legal assistance, really professional advice. He is involved in this, among others. The second problem is similar: in each district there are consumer spokespersons, but, as it turns out, in Poznań the consumer spokesperson employs more than 10 people, has an entire office and actively works for consumer rights, and in some cities the consumer spokesperson is employed part-time and is necessarily not able to help effectively, he is not even able to prepare properly. And how he gets to him, for example, a pensioner who bought pots for 5 thousand zlotys, then such a spokesman does not even have enough, I would say, working power at the local level to help him. And that's what more problems come from. It also happens that people go to lawyers, legal counsels, who make mistakes that are not always honest, who are not able to help properly. And then, sometimes, one mistake determines the entire fate of a person. Finally... I think it's also your senators' experience that you probably have people coming to you... maybe not so much a claim as people who've gone through all the instances... Later you even write to us to help someone. And we're going through all the documentation, and we see that mistakes have been made a long time ago, and there's basically no way to help. Because the legal system works this way, not different, and if someone hasn't used the right remedies at the right time, it can't be restored after years, even if we have a sense of injustice. Then we can even answer you that we will not take care of something, and there is a grudge against us that the Ombudsman is not able to handle the matter. So, I'd say, all of this, depending on the situation... looks different. Nevertheless, I take the view that we need to act in the long term to strengthen citizens, that we need to think really how to help them. But not just to help, but to make this help effective. So, for example, as I'm talking about these consumers, it's not just about creating these posts, it's about getting them equipped, training them and making them actually work properly. Let me give you an example of how we are in this situation. I recently met one retired Supreme Court judge. He's an outstanding character. A gentleman, seventy-seven years old. And he says to me, Mr. Spokesman, and, you know, I'm a spokesperson, too. I say, but what do you mean? He says, well, because I'm a consumer spokesperson in one of the German cities. It turns out that in Germany, this consumer spokesperson does not necessarily have to be someone on the board, but it can be, for example. A retired judge who, after all, is at rest and who could help in such situations. He doesn't have to do fishing and taking care of his grandchildren, but he can use his professional knowledge. So that we need to think about how these best models from other countries can be introduced to us and, for example, how to use the people that we have and who could help citizens to solve these difficult issues. As for the difficult situation of life, we are absolutely trying to deal with it. Sometimes this difficult situation in life is not caused by legal regulations, but by the fact that these regulations are not adapted to reality. Sometimes it even requires an extraordinary dialogue with authorities to help people. Here, when I look at my coworkers... I remember, for example, how Director Nawatski and Director Stefański from my office helped you, who was deprived of your child because of the argument that as a person with disabilities, in a wheelchair, you would not be able to take care of that child properly. It really took us a lot of time to create a system of help for this lady. I think that also the interest of other state authorities has helped in this. So sometimes it's not just about writing, it's about sending some kind of signal, but it's about, you know, more tenderness, that sort of thing. In many situations, when such people are in a difficult situation not because of their own fault, not because of their own... I think the most serious problems are those who are affected by the mental health crisis, especially in the fight against judicial authorities. Such a typical scenario: someone will commit some kind of offense, steal something, break something, is written by the police, the case is sent to court, this person does not receive registered letters, because he does not even know how to receive registered letters, there is no, you can say, awareness of the importance of receiving them, and then it turns out he is, I would say, tangled in the operation of justice mills. And all of a sudden, she's convicted, and she's in jail, which is the result of her not paying the fine. Stories like this happen. Later, within the limits of our capabilities, mainly through the deletion of criminal matters, we try to undo the fate of these people. We try to identify as much as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u42	Thank you very much. I have two questions. First of all, Mr. Spokesman, as if following this... I'm gonna skip the cases that you've sent to the Constitutional Court. I would like to ask you why the proposal was withdrawn from the Court. It's about the D.A.'s bill. We did, too, and we withdrew our proposal. I'd like to ask you why. Second thing. I would like to ask you about your opinion on the conflict of various goods guaranteed by the Constitution of Civil Rights. The first is the right to assembly. The second law relates to the events I witnessed in Wroclaw, in my town on 11 November, when on a national holiday certain groups invaded the city, insulting the president of the city, shouting racist slogans, etc. I would like to ask you about the possibility of solving this problem. I think it's a problem that's growing. On the one hand, we have the right to assembly, which is a very important right guaranteed by the Constitution, and on the other hand the right of the citizen to be safe in his own city during the manifestation. It is also important not to be offended, and not to be offended by feelings of other nationalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u43	Thank you very much. As far as the prosecution's law is concerned, I think the reasons for the withdrawal are quite similar to the laws I mentioned earlier. Firstly, it is a change of composition in the Constitutional Court which is incompatible with internal regulations, and secondly, sitting in the composition of persons who, in my opinion, are not allowed to rule. The third reason is to be aware that giving a ruling on this case could give legitimacy to the current situation. I think that this could hinder possible subsequent changes, as well as the action of the courts in individual cases, in particular the direct application of the Constitution. It is also an argument for me that the Venice Commission issued its report on 11 December 2017 on the law of the prosecutor's office. It will soon be a year since the opinion was delivered. This is described on page 672 of the report. The Commission has indicated that the merger of the role of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General does not meet the standards for the procedure for the appointment of the Prosecutor General and his competence. The Commission has, in a sense, seen that the combination of these functions falls within the constitutional limits, but it would have to be properly ensured that political functions are separate from those of upholding the rule of law. In particular, it may be of concern that the Attorney General may provide certain information from ongoing preparatory proceedings to specific persons or to specific media, or that it may affect the conduct of individual proceedings or the casting of prosecutors in individual cases. It seems to me that at this stage it is simply necessary to demand implementation, to ask what the government intends to do with the opinion of the Venice Commission, also because of the threat to the rule of law and perhaps the inefficiency of the prosecution. Speaking of those situations that the senator said were about hate speech or racist attacks, let me give you one example. After the march of 11 November 2017, I made a notification to the prosecutor's office in respect of the various situations that exceeded the rules in force. Not much has happened until today, I mean. To this day, these people have no charges, and I believe that these situations were quite evident when it comes to breaking the rules of law. In such situations, the question always arises whether there is a hidden business that causes the prosecution not to deal with such matters intensively enough. When it comes to solving these problems... I am of the opinion, and the rule should be that, as a matter of principle, you shouldn't prevent assembly. It cannot be that, on the basis of our suspicions, we are forbidding the assembly. If a meeting is held and there are situations that threaten security or exceed the rules of the Penal Code, the authorities have the opportunity to terminate such a meeting. I fear building such a thing, too, that general safety or well-being of the inhabitants may be enough to prohibit something in advance. In the same way, it can be said that care for public morality, health protection can result in decisions by authorities concerning e.g. prohibit the organisation of an equality march or such demonstrations. So let us try to look at the freedom of assembly in such a way that we can act more in the interests of freedom and respond in succession rather than in a preventive way. Of course, I am aware that despite the dissolution of the assembly, acts of hatred may still occur. There is one solution: police activity in such situations. If the police do not respond in such cases, unfortunately, we can only regret it and wonder whether they are properly performing their duties. Here's what I'm gonna say. Recently I was in Wrocław and I spoke with representatives of various NGOs, which were, of course, shocked by what was happening on 11 November 2018. When I hear, especially from representatives of Jewish organizations from Wrocław, that those cooperating with them were afraid to leave their homes during these... It's something I'm not optimistic about. However, we must fight for Poland to be a country where respect for everyone, regardless of its origin, and where everyone has a sense of normal functioning in a community that includes and does not exclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u45	Minister, I have three cases, new ones that appear... I would like to hear your opinion on whether these are serious problems in the eyes of the Ombudsman. The first issue is the rights of labour immigrants, most of whom are most likely illegally staying in Poland. What is the question of securing their rights? How does cooperation with the Foreigners' Office look like in this regard? The second point is the issue of teasing and breaking property rights when it comes to investment, both private and public. My office is getting more and more complaints about odors. People complain, these complaints quite violently arrive. What's it like in the opinion of your spokesperson? We have become not only a dump of foreign garbage, but also the aim of dropping annoying investments, for example in the field of breeding. Do these complaints reach your spokesperson? Were there any actions being taken? Finally, how do you feel, as the person responsible for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the situation of independent persons with regard to the protection of home care services?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u46	Thank you very much for these extensive and insightful questions. First issue: the rights of labour migrants. First of all, the problem concerns, of course, mainly Ukrainians who work in Poland and of which there are about 2 million. This is, in general, the largest labour migration in Poland in 70 years. This is a phenomenon that needs to be considered. not only from a legal point of view, but also as a social phenomenon that permanently changes the face of our country and also requires special responsibility from public authorities. I managed to establish quite a good dialogue with the trade union of Ukrainians, which operates in the territory of Poland. Also this year we organized a conference which was devoted, I would say, 3 aspects: firstly, I say hatred towards the Ukrainians, secondly, just to the workers' rights, thirdly to historical issues. Surely it is worth remembering this, and it was one of the conclusions of this conference, that this general atmosphere concerning historical accounts and however emerging manifestations of hate speech have an impact, one can say, on the well-being of Ukrainians who work in Poland. As far as the rights of migrants are concerned, I would highlight two issues here. The first is whether this single trade union, which even cooperates with the State Labour Inspection, is sufficient to safeguard these rights of migrants, all the more so because it is this group, which is particularly vulnerable to ignorance of regulations, procedures and exploitation. There was even a story of a person who got sick at the workplace. In the vicinity of Poznań, in the Shamotulas it was, if I'm not mistaken. and which by the employer was simply taken to the bus stop of the PKS, which was not provided with adequate support. I believe that the remedy is simply to strengthen the State Labour Inspection, to look really deep, whether the State Labour Inspection in this situation has sufficient resources, whether the helpline works well, whether there are enough people who speak Ukrainian who would be able to help, and whether this whole structure is tailored to the needs. But, ladies and gentlemen, as I was in Norway recently, I have been paid attention... For them, Poland has been associated on the one hand with the crisis of the rule of law, on the other hand with what happened in Gdańsk Shipyard, in which workers from North Korea worked as subcontractors and, in their opinion, were exposed to even slave labor. And please note that this is an extremely difficult situation. Because when there's an entrepreneur who says, okay, I'm gonna do part of the service and hire a sub-contractor, and this sub-contractor brings in posted workers from Asian countries, it's very difficult to find out what actually happens to them, how their rights are respected and whether they're respected. And again: what can be done in this situation? There should be activity of the State Labour Inspection and the D.A.'s office, right? Otherwise, it can't be done. Understanding that we may have such a problem, that in the territory of Poland, a country that has a legacy of the Solidarity and special attention to workers' rights, there may be such situations... As we will realise, then we see what should be done when it comes to the operation of the State Labour Inspection, and whether the mechanisms in this regard are sufficient. The second question... I'll get back to the first line. Of course, this applies not only to Ukrainians, but also to people from other countries, people who have a bigger cultural barrier. The second point is: the breach of ownership in the case of private investments and their annoyance. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to resolve the problem of odors, we simply need to adopt a law that will determine what is the permissible content of certain chemicals in the air. It's about different sulphates that cause air poisoning. And which will determine how to measure it, because it can't do it right now. Even if there are people complaining about it, there is virtually no way to investigate it and, therefore, entrepreneurs can say: well, since there are no legal standards, you can't forbid it. My office has been asking for an anti-odore bill for over 10 years. Interestingly, the first speech was addressed to Minister Szyszka from 2005 to 2007, in the meantime there have been further calls for further environmental ministers, and recently, during the current governments, we have again addressed Minister Szyszka. But there is no bill. Recently, I have signed such a joint appeal together with a dozen non-governmental organisations that deal with this issue. We have sent this call to the Prime Minister in the hope that perhaps the Prime Minister, hearing not only my voice but also the voice of civil society, will address this issue. There is one swallow, a ray of hope, namely the situation of a garbage dump on the Warsaw Radio. It was a case led by Director Mierzejewski from my office, who is also here with us. We led the case to win before the Supreme Administrative Court and in fact to liquidate this dump. But I would also like to point out to you that environmental inspectors, after the NSA's judgment, had to go to the site and, as is apparent from the justification, examine organoleptically whether this stink actually is. They could have made a decision to liquidate this dump because they had a legal basis in the form of an earlier ruling by the NSA, but the legal standards as to how to investigate it are still missing. As long as they're gone, we're gonna have a problem with that. Finally, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Implementation in relation to Independent Persons. Here I'd like to go back to what I said at the beginning. We have a problem with the fact that people with disabilities, on the one hand, and people suffering from a mental health crisis, do not have enough support at local level in accessing various care and rehabilitation services in many places. And this system needs to be worked on. In some municipalities, it works. Thanks to good cooperation of local government units with NGOs, it is possible to create an appropriate system, but in principle there is no one comprehensive system for the whole of Poland. And the effect of that is to violate these very fundamental rights. Moreover, we also have a problem with the creation of private nursing homes, shelters, guesthouses. Some of them present quite decent, high standards, but some, I think, remain out of state control all the time, so there may be various situations that violate individual rights and freedoms. We're trying to study these places, too. As part of the activities of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, we are investigating cases of inhuman and degrading treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u47	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u48	You said, Mr. Ombudsman, that 2.5,000 requests for an emergency complaint were received. I know it wasn't possible to perform a prison prevention system before. The first question is: is this not a threat to the performance of other ombudsman functions, for which there is also a lack of funding? And question two. As you know together with the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, but not only have he been dealing with the issue of non-alimentation for several years. However, the question is how in other countries where there are spokespersons, there is a penalty for not responding to the Ombudsman's statements, such as those concerning disabled persons. The Ombudsman has been acting in these cases for several years on the basis of a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and for several years these efforts It's not just yours that's being ignored. Therefore, the question is whether in any democratic countries where there is an institution of the Ombudsman such an obstruction is possible with regard to the execution of his speeches. Are there any legal, functional solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u49	Thank you very much. The handling of emergency complaints poses a risk to the day-to-day functioning of the office, as it is an additional burden on employees and may lead to delays in other tasks. For example, I will say that one of the teams that is additionally burdened with this is the Criminal Law Team led by your director, Łukasz, present in the Chamber, which is already tasked with controlling the various actions of the prosecutor's office, complaints against the police, and is also to deal with the handling of applications for criminal cassations. It's been over 2,000 every year. So at a time when extraordinary complaints come to this, then, of course, there's not enough time, energy, and strength to take care of other things, other things. At the end of the day, a citizen who insists on it asks when the complaint will be answered. This is the moment when I feel guilty about the citizens that this response is not happening quickly, but I am trying to do what I can to encourage my colleagues to work as hard as possible. This threat is also linked to the fact that this excessive workload causes the Ombudsman to leave the office. Let me give you an example. I recently spoke to a specialist who is employed at the Bureau of Studies and Analysis of the Supreme Court. The quality of the work of my colleagues, especially the chief specialists, chief executives, is at the level of specialists from the Office of Studies and Analysis of the Supreme Court. It turns out that the remuneration of the specialist at this Office of Studies and Analysis is at the level of the remuneration of the judge of the appeal court. Well, my coworkers could only dream of making so much money. This makes it possible to move to the private sector and to other public institutions. The consequence of this... Every employee leaving causes someone to take over the paper, someone has to take care of it, and that causes further delays in handling cases. So I point out that this is how it works in practice. And that's why this budget is so important, and that's why it needs to be taken care of. The problem of not alimony. I think it's very important that, by working with the spokesperson for the rights of the child and directing the various speeches, something has moved, that is to say it has increased... I would like to stress that also thanks to the legislative changes proposed by the Minister of Justice, something has moved. And now, for example. The amount of child support collected increased from 13% to 26%. It's still a long way from dreaming, but this public discussion has its effect. The improvement of the situation is also linked to the fact that the bailiffs will be informed by the ZUS that someone is employed somewhere every month and not every six months. How they were informed every six months... After all, during these periods, they could have avoided paying maintenance obligations. So that something improves here. This is a plot where you need a lot of these, you can say, small different organic activities, including the introduction of. I think this is one of the most important changes of the so-called. maintenance tables that would simplify legal proceedings in alimony cases. As for sanctions for not responding to the Ombudsman's statements, I would say yes. If we go to Western European countries, we will notice that ombudsman speeches are treated there more in terms of binding recommendations. Most often there are no sanctions, but there is a legal culture there that it is not appropriate to fail to adapt. In Poland, in turn, such a culture has probably never been fully established. Besides, our office was formed at a different time and, in my opinion, was based not only on giving recommendations and on the fact that the authority said: yes, yes, we will submit. With us, it was more based on such a specific dialogue and mutual learning. My main problem... I don't have a problem with the fact that if I address a minister, the minister doesn't agree, so we're gonna write another letter, we're gonna convince each other. etc. I think it's normal that we get to the position, we have a dialogue, and that's how we solve a particular case. My problem is that sometimes the organ doesn't want to conduct this dialogue, doesn't respond at all, delays, so you have to complain to the Prime Minister. Then I feel like it's just undermining the constitutional principle of interaction between the authorities. And that's why I allowed myself today, during my speech, to make this strong comment on the Minister of Justice, because I particularly care about the subject of the fight against torture. and dialogue should be conducted on this subject. Oh, sorry, there was another question about the guardians of people with disabilities... [[And four years.]] Four years... In my opinion, the only option in this situation is to deal directly with the administrative courts. In some cases, the administrative courts granted higher benefits. The second option is to apply to the European Court of Human Rights. It is now waiting for a case before the Court which concerns the situation of guardians of persons with disabilities, a comprehensive case. Imagine what will happen next if this case is dealt with and solved. It may be that the Court considers that this is the so-called. system problem, will grant these people the right This will not be difficult, because it is possible to rely on the judgment of the Constitutional Court and, moreover, it will then order the Polish State to execute this sentence, including probably the payment of benefits for the entire period during which those persons did not receive these benefits. And let's imagine that there's more complaints like this and that you're gonna have to pay all those people back for this period for four years. This may be the consequence of a lost case before the European Court of Human Rights, and this may also give rise to additional claims for damages for the so-called. legislative lawlessness. Because when judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are not enforced and citizens could be entitled to specific claims, that is the situation of legislative lawlessness. Dr. Leszek Bosek wrote his entire habilitation on this subject at one time. Perhaps it is worth reaching out to in this context.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u51	Mr. Ombudsman, in your information, you are paying attention to an increased number of police complaints. Please say: what is the scale of this growth, and what is the most noticeable in what matters? And, on the other hand, do you get information and complaints from police officers that they're being used for inappropriate tasks? And second question. You also inform us of complaints against legal proceedings, especially for the duration and, most importantly, for bias. So I'm asking for information about trends. Is there an increase in such complaints? And can this indicate that in Poland, in the social sense, there is a growing conviction about the deterioration of judicial proceedings? Is the trend different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u52	Thank you very much. As far as police complaints are concerned, of course. they are mainly related to the situations of legitimacy and detention in the context of demonstrations. That's what I've been talking about. But I also think that after the Igor Stachowiak case, there were a large number of cases in which citizens complained about the violence of officers. Perhaps this was due to the fact that citizens felt that they felt that perhaps these things should be... that there was a chance for them to be properly explained, to be properly investigated. And in some cases, we have taken action. So that I would distinguish these two categories: complaints about the application of direct coercion measures, and the other are complaints about detention and legitimacy during demonstrations. Now, however, it is worth noting that the Ombudsman's office is also a body to which officers can complain. And we receive such complaints about various types of social allowances, including pension schemes, concerning the performance of specific tasks. I can't remember at this point whether we had specific complaints about forcing or forcing police officers to perform specific tasks, you might say, over-standard I can't remember. But I would stress that we are in constant dialogue with police officers, with the police union, and where we can do that. We're also monitoring the state of the precincts. Unfortunately, not all police stations are adapted to the standards of the modern state. As for the bias of the courts... I think that the general atmosphere of justice and the general problems that are related to it, of course, affect how people perceive the courts and their functioning, but I would also point out that the judges themselves are talking about it. According to recent research for the Republican Rzeczpospolita, which were carried out on a test of 1 thousand 100 judges... 64% The judges said that the overall atmosphere has an impact on their functioning, such as, you might say, a sense of danger related to their judicial activity. These are, in my opinion, very serious figures to be taken into account. But it seems to me that what is not seen in the context of the public debate is that the attention over the past few years has been focused on the adoption of specific judicial laws and, therefore, lacked space and energy for such a natural dialogue that should take place between the Ministry of Justice and judges in the context of how to properly reform the justice system. And so it is, both in terms of acceptance... as regards the structure of the courts as regards the promotion of alternative dispute resolution methods. This is, for example, the regulation of the issue of judicial experts, the improvement of the institutions of judicial experts, as well as, what seems to be the most important, the issue of staffing, the staffing of individual courts. We still have... There are probably 700 unattended judges at the moment. And the cast of assistants and referees who necessarily help judges. So, I'd say there's no dialogue, and there's a kind of mistrust that's been created, how well we realize it. It has caused these problems to become even more complex, which has resulted in a reduction in the quality of the courts' functioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u53	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask the questions, but I'd like to get back to the words that... I would return to December 2017, when you actually warned against the threats after the Supreme Court Act was introduced, because, as you know, we will soon be debating the seventh amendment of the Supreme Court Act, and there is an announcement that there may be fifteen of them. At least that's what the Minister said. And I would like to say that in the justification for these changes it is written that the bill has a positive social impact. That's the justification. So that this is a moral victory for you, Minister, because it seems that the previous laws have had negative social consequences. As far as questions are concerned, however, I will return to the situation which currently prevails at police stations, i.e. lack of access or limited right to an attorney. What should we do? Because I think we should all take some action so that the citizen they're taking off the street while they're on their way to the station, to the police station, isn't at risk of being simply vulnerable. Because a normal citizen who doesn't have to deal with the police every day doesn't know what his rights are, doesn't know that he has the right to defend himself, that he has the right to have a lawyer present at his hearing. It usually happens this way: name, name, admit it, you'll have peace, and if you don't, we'll harass you in your place of residence, you'll go to your workplace, to your neighbors, the neighborhood will walk around the neighborhood, etc. Therefore, the question is: "Do I not have the right to defend myself?" Unfortunately, I get the answer: "Better quietly or, sooner or mildly, we will treat you." And that's because the police are, I imagine, tired, and not too happy that they have to get involved in politics. What should we all do here together? And my next question. I'm gonna go back to that O.R. here... Oh, yeah, that's the most important thing... I'm sorry. I'm gonna go back to that case. I think if that case were settled, we wouldn't have had the murder of Igor Stachowiak, she wouldn't be there if there was a defense attorney at the time. Now I'm going to go to operational control, and that's already called lex Petru and the acquisition of operational data, I suppose about all of us. How do I get this information? In public information mode? I don't think so. When it comes to statements, we don't get any information. I would remind you that Mr Petru himself said that he would rather not be taken care of. I'd rather not be taken care of, too, because I'm often more afraid of this operational control than these bad guys. I'm sorry about the colloquialism, but I think it is. Therefore, please tell us, Minister, how to obtain such data. Because you're right that there's a review of the next court, but we don't know anything about it, and I suppose 80%. Of us in this room is somehow, well, let me put it directly, under surveillance, and there's an operational control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u55	Thank you very much. First question: how do I regulate my right to a lawyer? This law is commonly called the right to an attorney in the first hour or during the first hour. So from the moment of detention to the moment of the presence of a lawyer in police or other services, this lawyer should be present within an hour. Now we are dealing with the exercise of this right in respect of persons who are either wealthy or responsive, or in respect of persons who are, in quotes, prepared in advance for this to happen, and know where to call and who to call, so it is known that this lawyer is about to appear. The problem is, above all, affecting those who do not have all these opportunities, i.e. weaker people, sometimes addicts, sometimes those who are on the verge of social exclusion. And then they're affected by this situation. Of course, one thing can be said about the Igor Stachowiak case. I remember perfectly such a thing with Lidzbark Warmiński, where 2 gentlemen were arrested, who were involved in the collection of scrap metal on a daily basis. Then they were forced to testify by hitting them in the heels with a police baton, on their bare legs. If there was a lawyer, it wouldn't have happened. It is necessary to create either a system of mandatory presence of lawyers at the stations, or a system of mandatory notification of lawyers and prohibition of any action without the presence of a lawyer. What can you do? Well, the senate state should prepare a senate bill and post its adoption. In American tradition, there's something about the law that is often called by the name of the person who has become, you can say, an example that has become... There is, for example. a law on the fight against homophobic crimes called Matthew Shepard Act. Perhaps it should just be lex Stachowiak, a bill that would refer to this great tragedy that happened. He can't do it without it. This needs to be regulated, perhaps taking such a social initiative, in a situation where the Ministry of Justice, as I said, does not want to take these measures. So that's the first question, the answer to the first question. Second question, operational control, and what we know about surveillance. Yeah, well, the problem is, as long as there's no information that's been leaked to reporters who have gotten caught up in an investigation that somehow came out, there's no way to find out. And we can't know what surveillance practices are being used. For a long time, NGOs have been trying to obtain information on statistics on various surveillance mechanisms in public information mode. But in fact, time is running out, and it doesn't show much. So I guess this method doesn't exactly work out in practice. One method should be the work of the Sejm Committee on Special Services, but here we must also be aware of the political circumstances, that this may be difficult enough to actually get it. Of course, in certain situations the prosecution should also react. But here we are going back to the matter of the prosecution's work and its full independence. And I would also like to point out that, if there's something that we're learning about, there may be a way that civil lawsuits against the police and certain special services can be made against, because... it's not just about making amends, apologizing for the fact of surveillance. Often the conduct of a civil trial may allow additional circumstances of the service to be disclosed. And here's a good example. At one time it was revealed that Mr Bogdan Wróblewski was the subject of surveillance, the editor of the Gazeta Wyborcza, who decided to file a civil suit against the CBA and led to an official apology from the CBA. But the whole story and the whole explanation of this matter, I think, have also shown some mechanisms and were important from the point of view of power control and public opinion. And finally, the last line. Well, I hope that these matters will be the subject of a deeper explanation and a good analysis of Polish legislation and Polish standards will be carried out by the European Court of Human Rights as a result of complaints submitted from Poland. Once again, I would like to encourage you to look at the recommendations resulting from the report of the Venice Commission, which was devoted to the subject of surveillance. Really, all the recommendations that are there relate both to what we have legal problems, as well as to the question of attorney-client privilege. Well, because one might ask, what about attorney-client privilege, if you can check the lawyer's phone records in an uncontrolled manner, and how this phenomenon can potentially be countered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, for 10 years lawyers in Łódź have been training for high school youth, but also such classes for students, of course outside the legal direction. Well, in short, you know the law, you have the right. They teach the basics there. And they're giving lectures on the Constitution, because it's the highest law we have. And at the moment, because there is a kind of hunt for those lawyers who want to speak the normal language and to the normal recipient, there is a intimidation of disciplinary action, it even has the mark of disciplinary misconduct, such a formula was invented. So these are the typical repressions that I remember from my time... that I thought were long past, but it's all in the memory of those who are making a better change today. And these young lawyers are starting to refuse to do their homework, and they're avoiding it because they're afraid they're not gonna be allowed to do their job, etc., etc. Even one of the professors of the University of Łódź, a constitutionalist known from us, also said that with some concerns he went to 2 meetings of the University of the third century. So we're starting to do something here that I don't think anybody expected to do in the lawyers' mentality. Tell me if you're getting complaints like this, too. 'Cause I happen to hire two lawyers in my office, and they bring it to me. Is this a closed case? What's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u58	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! Even in this House, I was questioned a year ago about my involvement in an educational project called Constitutional Week. This is a project that is implemented by the Association im. Prof. Zbigniew Holdy and which is precisely that lawyers voluntarily, pro bono, go to school and teach about the Constitution, the fundamental principles of the rule of law. I would like to assure you that these meetings are extremely interesting and have nothing to do with current policy. Well, how can they have something to do with current politics, if they are conducted on such an example: what to do when a teacher decides to take a kid's mobile phones and they can't use their mobile phones for a day, and whether it's a violation of constitutional rights or not, and at the same time we discuss what the right to privacy means, the need to regulate the relevant issue, the need to involve students in the process of consulting such decisions or such internal acts? It's really hard to say that this has anything to do with politics. However, the fact is that the realization of these activities is faced with some difficulties, which are particularly linked to the special activity of prosecutors. First of all, there was a single letter. As I recall, we've taken this matter to an explanation. In the case of a retired prosecutor who held a constitutional class. Secondly, literally a few days ago a letter was sent by one of the regional prosecutors in Warsaw, which even prohibited prosecutors from engaging in such actions. I think it's absolutely... I am unable to imagine how it is possible to prohibit anyone from speaking about the constitution at all, and in particular to speak and to make young people aware of why the constitution is important. I would particularly like to emphasise and appreciate the involvement of those lawyers who participate in this and these educational programmes lead. These lawyers taking part in the Constitutional Week are, as long as my memory is correct, about 500 and they are involved in this next edition. I'm sorry when, on the one hand, young lawyers Maybe not only young people, but also serious lawyers. On the other hand, schools are beginning to have some concerns. Because when we start to fear that talking about the Constitution is wrong, it means something bad is happening to our constitutional order.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u59	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u60	I would like to remind you of a case that you are probably dealing with, but I believe that this needs to be given much more attention than before, namely the issue of an increasing number of unprofessional, often violent policemen's behaviour towards demonstrators. Of course, there are professional reactions, such as are legal, but more and more And I'm also saying this on the basis of observation, is behavior that is against the laws of the police. There are illegal legitimizations, legitimacy in situations where legitimacy is unacceptable, illegal detention of participants in demonstrations occurs, and sometimes there is also violence, as during the famous demonstrations at the Seym in July this year, and finally, the most dangerous of all, there is damage to the body: breaking the arm, breaking the spine of demonstrators during the picket in Katowice. Well, these practices must be said decisively, these practices must be combated. In this connection, aside from calling on your Ombudsman to pay as much attention to this as possible, I would like to ask: are these matters monitored by you? I'm asking, because my observation shows, and I'm going to stress it once again, that unfortunately there are more and more of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u61	Thank you very much. Yes, of course, we're monitoring it. Any such story, when we get a very specific complaint, becomes the subject of our analysis and appropriate correspondence is undertaken with the competent police command, most often it is the Police Capital Command. The sphere of direct coercion is extremely sensitive from the point of view of human rights and is therefore subject to special regulation, a very precise definition in the legislation of the statutory rank. But in order for it to work well, it is not enough to define it in the regulations, it needs to be applied well and you need to have well-trained policemen to do so. If we lower the qualification criteria for those who join the police, and there is an increasing problem with the recruitment to the police, then situations like this can happen. There are also situations in which we are dealing, as the senator said, with the unlawful detention of persons. This story on Smolna 11 November 2017 is the best illustration of this. I can't even imagine that such stories can still happen, that someone stops to prevent him from being held for that purpose. I think that, of course, I promise to keep an even closer eye on these matters, to watch them more closely. When we talk about these very specific stories, I will mention the example of Władysław Frasyniuk himself, who is also illustrative. First of all, wearing handcuffs. Was it necessary? Then the court decided it wasn't necessary. Secondly, putting them in the back rather than in the front, which was also a violation of the standard. On this occasion, please note that this kind of story, which is then shown in the media, does not give a good example, it shows something quite the opposite, shows that perhaps it is now possible that standards change and that we do not care about such respect for the dignity of each person detained.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u62	Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u63	Minister, I would like to refer to the beginning of your speech when you spoke about the relationship between the rule of law and respect for human rights. I'm gonna be in my speech a little bit more with a few of your statements. I'm curious about your position on the so-called. the law on beasts, which was adopted in the Polish Parliament a few years ago, and I will add that almost unanimously. What is the position of the Ombudsman when it comes to the threat to civil liberties in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u64	Thank you. Dear Senator, when this law was being proceded when it was adopted, I had a rather critical position on it, even strongly critical, so to speak. Later, after I became a spokesman, I came to the Constitutional Tribunal, which was prepared by Dr. Davidziuk from the office, also present in the Chamber today. Later, we took steps to expand this proposal, to clarify it and to make additional arguments that I think should sound. Then there was the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which, in principle, judged most of the regulation adopted by Parliament, in addition to the issues of psychiatric opinion, if memory serves me correctly, as constitutionally compatible. And at this point in time I can have my critical view and rely on my earlier speeches, but I must respect the ruling of the Constitutional Court in this regard and I cannot question what the Court has ruled in this case. However, it is a regulatory issue and, on the other hand, we have the issue of practice. Because the assumption was that the center in Gostynin and the entire construction of the bill are in order to create the possibility of further therapy, also further isolation of people sentenced to death penalty, which was then converted into 25 years imprisonment. But the practice went in a completely different direction, in the very direction that we feared, namely that when the punishment of the person who was convicted of sexually motivated crime comes to an end, the betting directors have a certain fear of releasing such persons from the plant and are taking action, which then results in the fact that they receive a decision on preventive isolation and go to Gostynin. As a result, Gostynin is now, you can say, bursting at the seams, right? All 54 seats are filled. In fact, another pavilion should probably be given back. A place that was supposed to be some kind of shelter, a therapeutic center, becomes a de facto prison. There are bunk beds and it does not really resemble the standard it should be, comparing it with the standard in Rosdorf, Germany. That's one problem. There's a problem with that... And that was the whole big conference we had on November 8th... I mean. We did not organize it, we were participants, and it was organized by the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology on Sobieski. This conference was extremely critical in terms of the functioning of the law, the functioning of the Gostynin, the regulatory level. It was also said that radical legislative action should be taken to address this problem. Again, despite this ruling, we are going back to discussing whether perhaps the Constitutional Tribunal was overly optimistic about this constitutional regulation, and whether the legislator did not, however, create an institution which in this form actually prolongs the sentence of imprisonment for some people infinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u65	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u66	Thank you. Mr. Spokesman! Minister! Page 403 of the information relates to the absence of provisions laying down the rules for reprivatisation. We have a small act of reprivatization concerning Warsaw land, which was the one from June 2015. However, there is a lack of a large act of reprivatization announced by Minister Patrick Jaki and the Minister of Justice. The good economic situation of the budget, as the government claims, should be conducive to the adoption of such a law. And the question is: without a law, without fair compensation, will it be possible to end matters of reprivatization, claims of owners, heirs? I have an example from my own territory, from my own backyard actually, about Toru Poznań. This is the only racetrack in Poland. At the moment, the CBA is filing a notice to the D.A. regarding this track. There was a State Treasury inscribed in the eternal book, there was communalization. And the whole process can be reversed again and the end can't be seen. Minister, is this reprivatisation law necessary to bring an end to all matters relating to property matters, claims of owners and heirs? Because this applies not only to the owners, but also to the heirs of the owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u67	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! I think so. The law is needed to complete a certain stage of Polish history, to write, settle, set a deadline for which claims can be made, and to create a compensation mechanism that would, on the one hand, give a sense of satisfaction to people who would be covered by the law and, on the other hand, would be, it could be said, a development impulse consisting of the fact that some land with an irregular situation could develop as if it would be traded. In addition, it would spread the burden for the years to come. I'll tell you what I mean. Maintaining a state where we don't have a law puts the burden of responsibility on the courts. The courts must use general principles and may make mistakes. Those mistakes after a while... Even if the courts act in good faith, then their judgments may later be judged in different ways. The courts can even be extremely criticized for this. Yesterday we even had a debate in the Ombudsman's office, in which Professor Ewa Łętowska participated. It has formulated such a view that the courts in recent years may have been overly seductive to the procedural agents and have taken a little too much of the arguments put forward. It's the danger that exists all the time. This increases not only the state of legal uncertainty but also the imbalance, because some groups or some institutions fully, you can say, have benefited from the process of reprivatization and some have to seek powers in court. Let me give you an example. This situation is a threat. not only for the general functioning of the state, but also for the residents. We recently managed to... We participated as an office in a very serious case that was handled by Director Dołowska from the Ombudsman's office. The case concerned reprivatization in Michałowice near Warsaw, where claims were made by one of the families. The family claimed titles to land and, on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Agriculture, tried to recover them. The matter concerned the interests of 1,000 500 inhabitants of Michałowice. Luckily, the NSA, you can say, stopped the reprivatization claims and these residents can feel safe. I can be happy to be able to help and participate in this. However, by the way, I must tell you that sending 1 000 500 copies of the cassation complaint to the court is a major organisational effort. It's cost us a couple of nice weeks of work to get it ready. But that's by the way. This case shows the problem that we are dealing with here, shows uncertainty about the interests of residents, people who have acquired property titles in the meantime. I think it is worth mentioning the verification committee in this context. I was quite critical about the review committee. The main argument was that in this shape she would not be able to review all properties in Warsaw. After a while, I can actually say that it didn't actually happen that some of the property's cases were only reviewed. As far as the future is concerned, I think we simply need to take advantage of our own national solutions, namely the law that deals with the property in question. In the context of commercial property, the principle of writing all claims up to a certain point was introduced and 20% of claims were paid out. values. You could say that the settlement of all this was a close-up. Of course, in the context of reprivatisation it would be much harder to pay 20% overnight in cash. In my opinion, a solution could be the issue of either Treasury bonds or some vouchers to be executed. They would immediately be traded, but they would be implemented by the state gradually over the next 15 to 20 years, let's say, so as not to charge some large amount of budget for the following year, just to spread it out for the following years. Well, it just needs to be done at some point in Poland, hopefully as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u69	Thank you. I would like to return to the Ombudsman's budget. The last two financial years have been marked by Parliament's decision to lower the office's budget. Well, it's paradoxical, because we know that the state budget is according to those who are in as good shape as never before. Nevertheless, the budget of the institution that upholds human rights and the citizen is limited. The Ombudsman gets more responsibilities, there's more work to be done. The efficiency of handling cases is extremely high because, according to the report, 1/4, 25% of cases have been resolved as expected by the applicant. I would like to ask the Ombudsman whether the reasons why this budget is limited have ever been explained. Or, for example, the chairman of the Committee on Public Finances in the Sejm, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee or the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for drawing up the state budget, explained the reasons why this budget is limited, which directly affects human rights and the citizen's rights in Poland? Has this information ever been communicated to your spokesperson? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, when there is a debate on the budget Whether in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights or in the Committee on Public Finance, the Constitutional Authority does not get, you might say, a full report on why the Ombudsman's request was not approved. There are only some lessons to be learned from the discussion. In short, I think it was all about the fact that the spokesperson doesn't do what he should do, that there are some things that he shouldn't be dealing with. There were such arguments. - No, they've been showing up. I don't mean to increase the power of action, e.g. the criminal law team or the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, that it's all actually going to be the anti-discrimination team, the equal treatment team. I think that, in some situations, some hidden intentions have been sought because I demand more funding. And I also think it is sad that there was no special response to the demands that appeared in the recommendations of various international organisations. In the recommendations of the Human Rights Committee, the UN Committee on Torture and the UN Sub-Committee on Torture, there were such demands that this budget should be adapted to the tasks and requirements that are placed before the Advocate, but in a sense these arguments were not fully understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u71	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u72	Mr. Ombudsperson, do you know that Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro has ordered the prosecutors at the primary level to inform them of matters that might be of interest to the public? It's a very broad set of cases. This does not concern specific categories of crimes, i.e. crimes related to, suppose, terrorism, it does not concern other crimes, the most dangerous ones, but cases that may cause public interest. And this also applies to politicians of all parties, because any case concerning us can arouse public interest, including for example. the speeding issue. Do you think this is appropriate? And do you have any idea why he made that recommendation to the prosecutors?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u73	Mr. Marshal, unfortunately I... I mean, not unfortunately, but I think that if you manage a large structure in which there are various types of cases Is it going to be the Supreme Court or is it going to be the prosecutor's office or is it going to be the Ombudsman's office? This leadership is not able to keep up with what is going on when it comes to the whole structure. And the media reality, our social reality, is that even if you sometimes don't know as a boss about different stories, it's in the end that you're the head of the institution that's responsible for something that you didn't know or that you didn't react quickly enough. I sometimes have to follow what's going on in the media on Sundays, because on Mondays I'm being questioned about what I'm going to do, what I'm going to do, what I'm going to do. And if I don't answer that question, I'm about to be accused of not doing it. So I kind of understand the need to know faster about what's going on in the big structure. Moreover, since we are already talking about the category of media cases, I recall that for example. In the District Court in Warsaw there is even such a special list of matters of media interest and it is sent by a press secretary to journalists, so that journalists know what cases to appear on and what to be particularly interested in. However, when I say all this, I'm going to say that we need to be aware of a few specific things. If the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office has this knowledge, the question arises as to whether it serves him only to be better informed or to use later the possibility which is regulated in the law of the Public Prosecutor's Office, namely the possibility of informing selected journalists, selected persons about each ongoing preparatory procedure. Please note, this is one of the most important new provisions that have emerged in terms of the functioning of the prosecutor's office. It is about the possibility of selective, targeted information of selected journalists, information not generally, not all, not the Polish Press Agency and journalists of all media, but selected journalists. If you have such knowledge, the question arises as to how you use this knowledge and how later you influence the course of the public debate and how some journalists are informed in advance. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that informing certain journalists, making certain investigative material available at the appropriate stage may cause irreparable irreparable damage to those who have been described in this way. So that should lead to a thought too. So when we read that some reporter got to the unknown material from the investigation, and somehow he was the only one who got here, and others, if they get there, maybe they'll be there in six months, a few months, because they won't be able to... I would point out precisely that perhaps this mechanism is used to use the selective procedure to inform certain journalists about certain matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u74	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, Mr. Spokesman! I have a question, or actually 2 questions, which in part relate to the content that has already been discussed here. Well, we as senators are in the Senators' offices dealing with intervention. People come to us on duty with all kinds of problems. So that in a way... well, maybe not just that we're doing a job for you, which is what we're dealing with in the field of similar issues. And I'll admit that half of the cases I'm dealing with in my office are, in general, court issues, unfair judgments, some kind of dragging on, etc. And the other half, maybe 1/4, are issues related to the citizen's contact with the local government. I have not yet met with any case of discrimination, whether because of sex, whether because of sexual orientation or because of race. Do we live in two different realities? [[Yes!]] [[It's true.]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] The question is, which one of these realities is better. You, Mr. Ombudsman, have tried to introduce us here. At the beginning, in your general speech, you spoke a lot about it. That these are matters whose scale is increasing in Poland, that there are more and more of them, that they are even cases whose solution becomes the Polish reason of the state. And I thought there was so much more to these other things, the typical ones that I'm seeing. And now it is. The data you cited here, regarding cases, speeches, I'd call it, in relation to discrimination on grounds of origin... You've calculated eight of them. Of course, there are 100 cases here... But these are mostly things, I would say, online, related to the so-called. A hate speech. As far as sexual orientation is concerned, there is literally one here, and it is about some stickers promoted on the Internet. The cases that came in to you were 52,000, new cases 22,000. Do you think that the percentage that you have tried so hard to explain and present to us here really entitles us to claim that Poland is a country of intolerance? 'Cause that's the impression I got from your speech. Poland is a country of intolerance, progressive racism, progressive discrimination. Is that really the case? Let's talk about quantitative issues here and how you feel, because it could be two different things. The second question is related to the verification committee. You've become famous that in 2017, you went to committee, let's say, with such a motion. I don't know what to call it; it was probably some kind of writing. With such a request to better respect the rights of persons who have been interrogated before this committee. Some of them were house-cleaners, some of them were responsible for this great scandal. In your report, however, I did not find any sign of you intervening in the case of persons. It's not about this one case in Poznan. Which were in Warsaw by these tenement cleaners excluded from all rights, from dignity, from property. It was done at the risk of their lives and health. Are you... How many people who were removed from the buildings in Warsaw did you help? How many cases were there specifically, how many did you help? Because you wanted to help the tenement cleaners, that's what I know. It was commonly described. So those two questions, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u76	Thank you very much. Firstly, please note that in my speeches I always try very hard to avoid such, you can say, large quantifiers relating to what Poland is or what the Polish society is. I would never say that Polish society is, as a rule, intolerant. I would never say that, say, racism dominates. The only thing I said in my speech was that... I told you about very specific things that go into the office of the spokesperson that I'm dealing with that might involve hate crimes, for example. If we looked at... What's more, I would like to stress that the beatings, especially the beatings, are mostly on my heart. It's because we tolerate or allow hate speech. These are extremely dramatic stories. These are stories that are incomprehensible to me if you consider our history, our traditions, our noble tradition of religious tolerance and that Poland has always been or for many centuries been a country of cultural and national diversity. And now, if we look at the report, specific cases, it was in 2017 that we registered 100 different cases, which concerned acts of violence and hate speech, motivated by national-ethical or racial affiliation or religion. So these are the things that we've learned about, which we've dealt with, that people or NGOs have come to us with. If we could look at the report that refers to the article. 32 of the Constitution on the Prohibition of Discrimination, we will read there that I intervened in the case of: assault on a Bangladeshi citizen in Legnica, beating up a Saudi in Zakopane, beating up an Hindu student in Poznań, beating up a Ukrainian citizen in Warsaw, assaulting Israeli athletes in a hotel in Sochocin, beating Chechenka on the Warsaw Wola, insulting and violation of the physical immunity of a Ukrainian citizen in Opole and attacking a dozen-person group on foreigners staying in one of the Warsaw kebab bars. Right? This is an example of a few very specific things that... [[Eight.]] But this... [[Eight.]] If, Mr. Senator, 8 cases aren't enough... [[Talking in the O.R.]] When it comes to beatings, I think we're different grades, because it's a lot for me. Yes? I mean, for me, every time you fight someone because of racial and ethnic origin, it's a shame. It is a shame that this is happening in Poland at all. And I can't understand it. I have to document it, I have to explain it, I have to examine whether these people have... whether the police respond properly, whether the prosecutor and the court respond appropriately. Moreover, in each case, we are also trying to reach out to these people, to talk to them, to think about how we can help them in the situation. And I think it is very sad that such stories happen in Poland. But again, I would like to stress: I will not learn from this. And I didn't make a proposal in my speech that the senator could point out to me. I'm just talking about a number of cases that come up. When it comes to discriminatory situations, let us remember that these situations are different. These aren't just stories like that. It occurs for example. a problem that is discussed in Poland, such as discrimination in accessing various goods and services. Yes? And there are situations that happen again, for example. there is a person who moves in a wheelchair and is denied access to the club for a concert, although the place was accessible to people with disabilities, either denied to a person with disabilities, or are blind persons or persons using a guide dog who are refused to use different services. These are things we're dealing with, too. I think that when it comes to discriminatory matters, the problem is not so much the number of cases as the question whether people are aware that they have legal instruments that they can help themselves with; whether there is again such a phenomenon that they are afraid of the consequences of reporting a case and whether they will actually be able to help them effectively. And that, I think, is one of the major problems with the rights of homosexuals. I mean, they often don't report individual cases because they're afraid that the consequence of that is simply to reveal their identity, their orientation, and they don't want or can't afford it. But that doesn't mean that these problems don't occur because they occur. I am in constant contact with organizations that deal with helping such people, but also with some people who do not necessarily want to talk about their individual problems. Now, thank you, Mr. Senator, for paying attention to the problems associated with the functioning of local governments, because here actually there are a lot of problems and a lot of things that we are dealing with, and which concern the consequences of various administrative decisions. And as far as the verification panel is concerned, it does. under the abovementioned Article. 64 of the Constitution is a whole analysis of everything we've done when it comes to property rights issues. And if we go to the next part of the report, we will find housing policy issues there, under the above mentioned article. 75, there are very extensive, you can say, considerations on the various aspects of the protection of the rights of those affected, also due to reprivatisation. I would like to stress that in the Ombudsman's office in the Civil Law Group headed by Director Dołowska, there are 20 people working on the whole issue of civil law. Apartment law, including various problems related to reprivatization in Warsaw, deals with several people, and I can assure you that we try to deal with these matters on an ongoing basis and respond to all these complaints, take action in relations with the capital city of Warsaw, so that the situations of people whose premises are reprivatized and who are concerned with other housing problems can be solved. I'd also like to... Because the senator pointed out that my letter to the verification committee was excessive or unnecessary. You said, "If we're dealing with certain people, why protect them? [[In comparison with the victims of these people...]] Yes. But I would like to stress that every citizen has a right of defence, including the right to be questioned simply in a way that meets the standards of a democratic rule of law in the case of such institutions. And it was the content of my speech, it was simply a quote of the standards of hearings that result from the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the banking committee. I recommend this judgment to everyone from 2007. Because it is one such, one can say, fundamental judgments, it analyses how to interrogate and at the same time does not affect certain standards of operation of such specific institutions explaining or verifying certain activities. Thank you very much. [[May I ask one additional question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u78	Minister, I asked you to identify those cases where you helped people illegally removed from their apartments in Warsaw. It is about this matter which upsets the whole public opinion, the whole of Poland. You didn't mention a case like this to me. Well, I don't want to say it, I'm trying to be gentle... Your office was designed to defend the weaker, mostly the weaker, those who can't handle the office machine, the legal machine, etc. But in these cases, you didn't defend the weak, unfortunately. Of course, the rights of the interrogated are important, but the question is: what is more important, the right of the interrogated, having 40 million zlotys in his account, or the rights of dozens of people whom he has forced out of the building by force, by means of watering down, taking away human dignity? Mr. Spokesman, tell me clearly whose law you believe... Whose right should you take care of, which of these rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u79	Dear Senator, both. [[Voice from the Chamber: The rights of citizens.]] The rights of all citizens. Besides, I've made it very clear to you that these problems are being dealt with at the office all the time. 5, 6 people who work in a housing law team, they deal with all individual complaints and various other systemic activities that relate to this problem. Forgive me if I don't know all these things by heart... [[In the report...]] This is included in the report under Article. 64 and under Article 64. 75. If the senator agrees, of course I will address the senator with an appropriate speech, in which we will present you with a very detailed list of all such matters. [[If you don't mind, it's about Warsaw.]] Of course. Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! We have spent quite a bit of time today on respecting the rights of people with disabilities and the environment of people with disabilities, and in particular on the scandalous failure of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment in this regard. Nomen omen, I don't know if you know that the President of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities hasn't been appointed for a year and a half. Of course, I add this on the margin, but it also indicates that although it is now possible to appoint him without a competition, there is no person worthy to be in this position. But, like I said, by the way. I am more interested in the question of how you feel, even in detail, the level or state of compliance with the environmental rights of deaf and deaf people, especially in the context of access to public administration in the handling of their affairs, but also in matters relating to access to information programmes, films in particular. Has something changed in this regard recently, or is it still at an inadequate level? And do you do anything about it in your office? I know you do, but are there any other actions planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u82	Thank you very much. Yeah, we've got a whole team in the spokesperson's office, a team that deals with deaf people. We're in constant contact. Director Imiołczyk, who is also present in the Chamber, heads, you can say, this team and is still trying to take action in this area. In short, I'm going to talk about three things very quickly. First thing. The administration is still not adapted, because on the one hand we have a sign language law, but later its implementation in practice, in particular the availability of translations, the availability of video translations, is at an insufficient level. I remember when I was in Człuchów, one lady told us that sometimes with her own private money she simply ordered an interpreter to come because she doesn't want to play all those accounts anymore, just as long as a deaf person shows up, as much as possible to help her. So that the issue of the actual functioning of the administration in general is one problem. The second problem is related to audio transcription in cinemas, in television programs. But I would like to report a problem to you from Wroclaw by the way. Because when I was in Wroclaw, it was one activist, probably the Catarina Foundation, if my memory was correct, reported that she was absolutely outraged, and the environment of deaf people was absolutely outraged, that all programs related to the anniversary of independence were not marked with audio transcription, and that this is exactly the most powerful example as can be ruled out. Celebration is organised, specific financial resources are allocated and there is no audio transcription. To be honest, I haven't written an official intervention yet, but I'm sharing what's been handed over to me. So I think it's worth remembering. The third issue, which I am particularly interested in because it is difficult to understand and take directly, and it concerns perhaps not a large group of people, is the problem of the children of CODA, i.e. the children of hearing, but living in families of deaf people. They therefore become such at a young age, you can say, natural translators of their parents, which has very serious consequences for their emotional development, mental development, such an excessive burden of responsibility, accelerated growing up. And in this respect, I addressed the speech to the Minister of National Education, who promised that sensitive school teachers would respond to this problem. But it is worth remembering that such children are also with us and that they need support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u83	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the employment of football players and their pension security. The Polish Football Association sent you a letter asking you to examine the issue of protection of labour law or pension protection of Polish footballers. But I'd like to ask you a little bit more. Maybe... Because you in this intervention announce that you're gonna ask such a question to all the sports associations of the team games. But shouldn't you perhaps extend this question, Minister, and shouldn't this issue be the subject of the work of the Polish Parliament and the statutory regulations? Because we are dealing with such cases that even great Polish athletes remain without means of life, various types of public collections are organized, various initiatives are being carried out to help these people in such a simplest existence. Shouldn't we just have an influence? to change laws so that Polish athletes are secured in the future and can function properly after the end of their sports careers? Because we know that not everyone is Zbigniew Bońk, Robert Lewandowski, not everyone is, of course, successful according to the athletes I mentioned. What it looks like because you write in the report on page 338 that this issue will be the subject of a meeting with Polish associations of team games The progress of further work in this area? Is there anything you can say about that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u85	Thank you very much. The first information is that it was not a PZPN, it was the Polish Association of Footballers, and this is a different structure and she actually asked for it. The Polish Association of Footballers pointed out two issues: not only the issue of social security, but in general, you can say, to safeguard the interests of the players when they have a career period. Because these standards... They are basically treated a little as if they were entrepreneurs, and nobody especially cares that they may have an injury that they need leave, that transfers should take place in such a way that their employees' rights are respected, because they often play not necessarily on the position of a well-paid assailant in the Extraclass, but on the position of an ordinary defender in a secondary team, which involves normal, such daily employment and the consequences which are related to it. For the time being, I have taken these speeches, I have received answers, but we have not yet organised this meeting. Excuse me, but there's a lot going on. It is that there are a lot of topics that are of interest to the Ombudsman, so we need to look at it again, because perhaps it is better to delegate responsibility to my deputies and to my deputies. If there's anything else I can add... Because the pension insurance issue... You are absolutely right that we now have a certain level of support for the Somalis, for Olympic medalists, and that is actually that. Well, there are those who have achieved so much success that they don't need this support. However, please note that a very similar problem concerns artists as well. We make correspondence with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, indicating that during this career period artists often use different creative scholarships or work on contract-orders, or earn by selling their works and is not created for them such a system that would be adapted to this type of work. And that's also one of the problems to solve. So that I can promise, of course, that I will go back to the subject to take care of it and pull it harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u86	Thank you very much. [[No more questions.]] No further questions... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I still do.]] [[Oh, and you...]] There you go, Senator. Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u87	Thank you. I have this kind of question: is there cooperation between your office and other spokespersons, such as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the spokesperson of the patient etc., etc., in the following case I will ask about? It is very often that citizens are faced with a number of problems, i.e. when they address one of the spokespersons on the case. and them, and the office of such a spokesperson. Is there any cooperation that allows the citizen, in order to seek further assistance, not to start the whole procedure again and to address another Ombudsman, e.g. To you as an ombudsman? The point is that we can pass things on between the spokespersons, so to speak, which would allow the citizen not to start all over again, because all kinds of documents, information, etc. they would have passed away from this citizen's participation. Perhaps it would speed things up if it helped to get her out of the way. Do such practices exist? And was there such cooperation between the spokespersons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u88	Thank you very much. I think there are limitations here, because if a citizen addresses the Ombudsman, it addresses a particular institution and in my opinion it is not possible just to have this complaint. In my opinion, it is rather important to be very clear to what extent another judicial authority could help. At that time, the citizen himself should decide whether he intends to address this institution, for example. He might not have any trust, he might have turned back before, and he might not have benefited... I don't think the use of such automatic solutions is appropriate. It is better just to create such a system, and we care very much that already at the stage of the initial verification of the application, in the Ombudsman's office is the Preliminary Assessment Team, Mr. Director Spiewak is with us in the O.R. At once, respond quickly and provide the relevant information. We are also simply trying to work together by signaling specific problems. If we see that a problem that arises from complaints does not necessarily concern our activities, then we react so that the relevant judicial authority can handle it. Then, in a way, in quotes, we supervise whether this problem is properly solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u89	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: So can I sit down now? Yes?]] Yes, you're welcome. I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Klich was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u90	I was wondering, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, whether tonight at 12.00 to be here, in this Chamber, or at the trial, however, I thought it was my first duty to be here at work. And that is why I am not at the trial which took place today in front of the District Court for Warsaw-Śródmieście, where three people are judged who tried to block the march of ONR, the march of an organization which should be delegated long ago; an organization which uses fascist symbols; an organization which is extremely right; an organization which not only here, in so horribly affected by the war of Warsaw, but also in other Polish cities is responsible for the excesses and events for which we are ashamed. I think the whole Senate room is ashamed of them, without exception, and I can't imagine a senator who could be ashamed of ONR's excesses. The hearing is not the first, because during this meeting, daily court hearings are held in Warsaw. I could present the calendar of these trials, looking back and into the past and into the future. The paradox is that those who should be witnesses are often judged at these trials, and those who should be accused are witnesses. This is the modern Polish paradox. There's more and more of these trials. These hearings are mostly based on the articles of the Code of Offences, but there are also trials based on the Penal Code. Almost all citizens who stand before the courts, whether blamed by the police or accused by the prosecution, are those who demand respect for their constitutional civil rights, those who demand that the Republic of Poland give them the right to assembly, those who, moreover, have the full right to demand respect for their civil liberties, including the right to assembly. Various social organisations are trying to help them, different social organisations have launched types of civic assistance, as well as the Civic Platform has an office that supports the legal advice of those who volunteer. We assume that at the moment there are over 2,000 people who have been subject to repression, starting with the first famous repressions. We've all got that in mind. In relation to those who actively opposed the violation of the law by the PiS in December 2016 and the illegal adoption of the state budget in the Column Hall. Remember? [[We remember.]] Exactly. Then there were other speeches, probably the most massive in July 2017, against unconstitutional, criminal laws breaking in Poland the three divisions of the authorities and the independence of the judiciary. In a moment we will be debating why and in what direction the PiS is withdrawing from one of these compromising laws. Meanwhile, those who today are partial winners because they participated in protests, among others. Against the Supreme Court Act, they stand before the courts, and there are more and more of them. This curve looks exactly like I presented during the discussion. Here you can see that whenever we deal with appearances before the Seym or before the Senate, as many times a month, 2 months later there is a rapid increase in the number of hearings, court orders, in some cases searches, mostly outside the camera, but some are especially shown on government television to produce the freezing effect that spoke of by spokesperson Adam Bodnar. This is what modern Central European, unfortunately, the Polish model of non-liberal democracy is implemented, or so is the model of non-liberal democracy in Poland, much more advanced in Hungary, in order to scare citizens, so that they are not afraid to benefit from what the constitution and international agreements guarantee them, the European Pact on Human and Citizens' Rights or the Universal Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. The last link in all this is the courts, however, because most citizens appeal against court orders or the police or the prosecution brings cases to court. Polish judges, contrary to the assassination of the ruling party on their independence and independence of the judiciary, behave decently, behave as they are ordered by their conscience, behave honestly. Polish judges mostly acquit, largely acquitted these citizens. This is ultimately done by the judges of the appeals courts when a case goes to second instance. And it is important to thank the Polish judges for this, that they adhere to the standards of the ethics of the judge, that they observe what the free Poland has taught them, that they do not behave in such a pathetic way as they behaved. Did they behave themselves in part? The judges of martial law. Well, it's not that these cases go to court. It's not that a policeman has to choose whether to behave professionally and according to regulations or to go after a citizen and break his conscience or his spine. And today we are dealing with police officers who behave professionally, behave properly, behave according to the principles of their service, but we are also dealing with And I know that because I'm watching things with cops who violate these standards. They violate these standards and either act brutally towards citizens, sometimes even using physical strength, or simply behave unprofessionally. All of this is recorded by us in the country, but all of this is recorded by international organizations. The most prestigious, well-deserved Freedom House in this respect We all know her, some longer, I myself have had the opportunity since 1990 to use her reports many times. At the beginning of 2016, she pointed out that, I quote, the actions of the Government of Law and Justice raise serious doubts about the direction in which Poland is going. And then it just got worse. Then in the Freedom House reports Once again, such a specific metro pattern from Sèvres, in terms of democracy and civil rights, was already worse in terms of Poland's assessment. Poland fell on its neck in the Freedom House rating. And not only in this rating, also in ratings of other international organisations. And that's why your spokesperson's work is so important. It is his role to document all this to intervene and to speak publicly about it. And that is why, on the one hand, I would like to thank you and your team for your work and, on the other hand, to mobilise you, although the means you have talked about are less, for the sake of the case, for the opinion about Poland and for the certainty of Polish citizens, that the constitution is not just a piece of paper, it works further and with greater commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u91	Thank you. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Mr Ombudsperson and his colleagues! High Senate! The report presented by your Ombudsman, information on the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2017 and the Ombudsman's activities is a reflection of... It is also a look at the problems occurring in Poland, as the Ombudsman himself said, through the prism of compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and in particular through the prism of problems related to civil rights and freedoms. I fully agree with the comments made in this information. I'll quote a few of them. The principle of social dialogue and cooperation of the authorities, cited in the preamble to the Constitution, assumes that the final legislative decisions, namely the laws on which we are working, will be preceded by a dialogue with all representative participants in social life. We know from the Senate practice that this is unfortunately not the case, and that the quality of the law that we are in Parliament is far from the norm when it comes to the principles of correct legislation, about public consultation. The majority of parliamentary projects, which do not require public consultation, do not foresee the effects of the regulation. And we're also dealing with laws that we rewrite over and over again. The effects of such work can be seen on a daily basis. Well, at least the last laws on bank takeover. The fact that, during the second reading, Members of the Law and Justice, with the agreement and approval of the Minister of Finance, regulate the same subject matter that they had regulated the day before in another law, and then withdraw from it, is an example of chaos and writing law on their knees. I fully agree with the issue that you have raised with regard to the judiciary. Changes in the functioning of universal courts, the National Judicial Council or the Supreme Court significantly increase the influence of politicians on the justice system or the influence of the Attorney General on the courts. It is unacceptable in a democratic state of law for the prosecutor to influence the judges, the appointment of the Presidents of the courts. It is also unacceptable for politicians to influence the choice of the National Judicial Council. These are practices that undoubtedly conflict with the standards of the democratic rule of law. I also agree with the thesis. This was also mentioned in the answers to senators' questions. The fact that freedom of assembly in Poland has been significantly reduced by the introduction of cyclical assemblies. The direct effect of favoring these conventions is the ban on organizing at the same place and time of other conventions. You told the spokesperson that And it was also included in the questions, many such information was provided by the senators. That the participants of the demonstration are monitored at their place of residence, that specific interviews are being conducted with their neighbors, parents, families are pressured. These are practices directly from the Polish People's Republic. Mr. Spokesman spoke about the preventive detention of one of the potential participants before the demonstration on 11 November last year. I go back to the times of the Polish People's Republic and I think it's such a grim déjà vu. I have some personal experience, because in 1978 as an 18-year-old before the 60th anniversary of regaining independence I was arrested for posting leaflets on the city, in Gdansk, inviting you to Mass in the name of my homeland and for the manifestation to take place. Unfortunately, here I see some grim analogy. You also mentioned that the threat to the protection of the right to privacy has not been removed, particularly as regards the surveillance or anti-terrorist law. These rules gave the police and other services broad powers to apply operational control, actually beyond any civil or judicial control. These are cases that need to be said out loud, or else we'll really go back to times we'd like to forget once and for all. Mrs. Marshal, the High Senate, the information presented by the Ombudsman is reliable and professional. Despite the budget reduction, we also talked about this. The office and the spokesperson are working in a truly commendable way. The problem of these matters is, of course, very extensive. These aren't just the problems I was talking about earlier. They are actually very complicated, extensive and multi-dimensional. The very volume of this report, these 900 pages, was only part of the information that reflects the scale of the challenges, problems and tasks faced by the Ombudsman. And I think that this task was done by the spokesperson and his colleagues. I think that the volume of this information is directly proportional to the state of compliance with the rights and freedoms of citizens in Poland. I will also take the opportunity, Mr Ombudsperson, to thank you from this place for the help you have shown my family in an important case for us, but also important for complying with the rule of law in Poland. This is about the exhumation of my late brother Arkadiusz Rybicki, who died in the Smolensk disaster in 2010. The exhumation took place against the will of the family and against the intervention of your spokesman, who also directed the letters to the prosecutor's office in this case, and proceeded to the proceedings which took place before the District Court in Warsaw. Mr. Spokesman also took action before the Constitutional Tribunal, to which the court asked what values were more important: whether the constitutional right to privacy, dignity, or the code of criminal proceedings which arbitraryly ordered exhumation? The Court has not yet met in this case, has not delivered a judgment, but has delivered a judgment in this case by the European Court of Human Rights. In that judgment, he pointed out that Poland, the Public Prosecutor's Office in this case, had broken the rules, granted the right to the family and shared the arguments that the Ombudsman spoke about. I thank you again for this because the Ombudsman was the only institution of the Polish State, which took a position in such a categoric and decisive way in this matter. To us, to the parliamentarians, to the senators... I am announcing a legislative initiative here. We will make a proposal, with a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to the extent that a citizen cannot file a complaint against a decision, an arbitrary decision by the prosecutor's office on exhumation, so that this institution of criminal proceedings will never be used for political purposes again. Finally, High Izbo, I would like once again to commend the Ombudsman's activities, to thank him for the courage and consequence with which he acts in objectively very difficult conditions, in which he follows the call for an erosion of the institutions of the State responsible for democratic order, in which the creation of law takes place, as we have already mentioned, in an outrageous manner, without social dialogue, without recognition of right, without the possibility of cooperation in the creation of this law and in which the basic institutions of the State, including the Constitutional Tribunal, do not fulfil their constitutional role. Thank you again, Mr. Spokesman and all your colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Ombudsperson and the invited guests! High Senate! I will start with this thought, from which you also started, namely the link between the idea of the rule of law and respect for human rights. I share the view that this relationship is very strict. Well, the idea of the rule of law is an excellent, fantastic instrument that allows citizens, people to enjoy freedom, to protect freedom. The alternative is strength. You can force yourself to enjoy freedom, but the gain of our civilization is that it is through the rule of law that we protect the freedom of man and of the citizen. The rule of law defends freedom both colloquially, left-wings and right-wing extremists regardless of their political views. This is also an extremely important matter. It's okay. However, I find it difficult to agree with the thesis that in recent years the rule of law in Poland is threatened and this translates directly into threats to civil rights. Colleagues, opposition colleagues repeat theirs, we repeat ours. On this occasion, I would like to quote some arguments or examples, in my opinion showing that we have some problems with the rule of law in Poland, of course, but these problems have a long history. In the previous... I'm talking about the last, say, 30 years or the period since 1989. Examples, I would say, gross violation of the rule of law, gross... Because the smaller one who later restored the Constitutional Tribunal, and sometimes didn't just restore... Well, there were examples of such a gross violation of the rule of law in this 30th anniversary. At least a few more. I'm talking about gross. Right? The first years... We are not talking about many, because it was a legitimate violation of the rule of law, sometimes in the name of other important values. The first years, even... Ladies and gentlemen, the last death sentence was executed in Poland in 1988. The death penalty was abolished in Poland in 1997. I'm not saying this out of a death penalty position, because I'm abstracting it, and I'm not really in favour of death penalty today. But let's talk about the rule of law. For 9 years in Poland, courts issued final judgments, which were simply not executed. Can you say... Well, it's hard to get a better example of breaking the rule of law. Judgments are issued but are not executed by state institutions. It was only in 1997 that the legal status was changed and we are acting legally. Right? Well, in the name of other values, it was precisely in the name of this European order that it happened. Nobody specifically protested in Europe. You could keep it going. The Law on the Beasts mentioned above. Well, I've checked the Constitution doesn't even say that no one can be convicted twice for the same thing, but it's written in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Besides, it's such an obvious principle of civilization that even if it wasn't written down, it should still be respected. This bill, which you spoke of, violates this principle for other reasons. Right? I don't want to think about that either, but I don't want to do it anymore. A few examples of this could still be written. Perhaps shortening the term of office of the first Supreme Court President is also part of the story, isn't it? But in this context it is not an entirely extraordinary matter, we have also dealt with this before. Of course, it is not that the state of the rule of law in Poland is ideal and we are to become complacent. I share the opinion of my previous speaker, Mr. Spokesman, as well. It is worrying that violations of the rule of law are already taking such forms when it comes to the way of lawmaking... Unfortunately, it's happening. Well, I'm still hoping we'll get out of this, but unfortunately, parliamentary practice is like this. And it's getting worse. That the standards of lawmaking... There's an avoidance of consultation, and so on. And that's not good. There's probably a lot of bad situations like this. I respectfully refer to the work of your spokesperson, who tries to intervene in any kind of infringement, pathology or irregularities. I'll say, from the point of view of common sense... It seems to me that the situation in which the Ombudsman is, to put it mildly, from a different political option than the current ruling option is basically quite hygienic and not the worst. So that, I think, there's nothing wrong with that. Well, it would be even better if, as I say, belonging to a certain idea or political option. 'Cause almost every man has a story. It may have been less visible in direct actions. And she, in my opinion, is sometimes too visible. Yeah, but nobody's perfect. And regardless of the dangers and problems mentioned here... Well, let's not exaggerate with them either, let's appreciate that in the last 3 years, but also in the last 20 or 30 years the opportunities to enjoy freedom are really good in Poland. So let's appreciate it. As for freedom of assembly, freedom of speech... Well, you can get attached, of course. In fact, it is the role of the Ombudsman to pay attention to situations that should not be the case, to monitor and to pay attention to them. But let's not exaggerate. Even if this act on cyclical gatherings, she's a little... It is a kind of social innovation, but, ladies and gentlemen, don't exaggerate. Well, the fact that she's restricting the law of assembly... Places in Poland, places in Warsaw are quite a lot, so even if someone has reserved something, it has a subscription to demonstrate at a certain time and place, it is probably an exaggeration to say that in this way limits the rights or freedoms of someone else. Someone else can do it somewhere else. Etc. etc. So let's appreciate the freedom we have. Let us monitor the situation and pay attention to these problems, and sometimes pathologies that appear, but they appear and will appear. At the end of the day, only a signal was mentioned here. It is about defending or protecting rights in the context of the possibility of total surveillance, not only from state authorities, but also from some strange bodies, individual people. Soon they will be also kindergarteners who will be able to monitor everyone for technical reasons. This is a huge problem for citizens' freedom. So there is something to do in this regard, but once again I say: let us appreciate the state in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. You fit in 10 minutes. Senator Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will not argue with Senator Bobka, but the act on cyclical gatherings has shown that man often falls into his own snares. 'Cause there wouldn't have been a half of that brawl on November 11th if there wasn't a bill. And let me remind you that its amendment was lost in the Senate by only four votes. But I would like to thank the Ombudsman first of all. Concerned about the state of the rule of law in Poland, we have set up a Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team, and on behalf of the entire team I would like to thank you, because you were the only one who has always responded to our invitations and always bet on meetings at which, as far as our modest senatorial capabilities are concerned, we have tried to point out violations of the rule of law. The Ministry of Justice, even though it's always been invited, hasn't been once. Ministry of Education, Police Yes, they did. And violations of civil rights Not just as dramatic as the D.A.'s words, who said that he was dropping the case about beating up women with counter-manifestations, because the manifestation didn't specifically beat... Well, that's reprehensible. But there's a lot less spectacular civil rights violations that maybe go unnoticed. Like the question of a giant crowd of customs officers who have been deprived of their jobs in a way that is incompatible with our country's legal system, or even yesterday's mentioned employees of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, who only because they have to insert new people and change their name, will receive a notice within 3 months and only some will be rehired. Or like teachers who... There wasn't supposed to be a job loss as a result of the reform. Or a deformity of education, and it turns out that more than 6,000 teachers have a problem with their work. I don't want to talk about the Supreme Court. But like doctors and nurses who were unlucky to treat the father of a well-known politician... They've been harassed by the rule of law for 12 years. - They're not the only ones. By those who should settle disputes as a blind Temida. The judges involved are also subject to certain retorts and sanctions. I'm talking about your judge in Krakow. I'm not talking about a debubbishing bill, which may be up to the standards of a democratic state, but the ricochets we've been talking about are hitting, for example. in people who have contributed $20 billion to Poland in connection with the remission of international debt. I'm talking about General Champinski and Colonel Maronde, who are currently getting 1 thousand 290 zlotys pension. .about the people who saved 20 billion for Poland, saving American hostages. I can talk about many other aspects, reducing farmers' rights to own land, etc. Mr. Spokesman is a spokesperson for civil rights. He's not a spokesperson for freedom. Freedom and democracy are to be dealt with by us. These violations of civil rights, both spectacular and shiny in the light of the limelight, as well as less spectacular, though equally damaging to the citizen, are very much. In the end, there's a prose of life. As your spokesperson stressed in his very balanced report, he lacks the resources to fully carry out his office's tasks. And that is why, with a pragmatic view, we need to remember that this important institution needs adequate financial support when working on the next budget law. There are many such areas, ranging from medicine to poverty problems... I don't want to develop this subject. I would like to say that the Ombudsman's institution, which, on a national budget scale, costs micro-money, must be properly provided with financial resources so as to be able to uphold the rights of all of us. From the right, from the left, from the middle Who are the citizens of the Lightest Republic. Finally, thank you once again, Mr Ombudsperson, for your great efforts. On behalf of the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Team, I would like to assure you that as long as we are present, you can count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u97	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grażyna Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko, Professor, if it weren't for you, I probably wouldn't be speaking anymore. You said a very important thing, you said I don't think you've really thought these words through. That we should appreciate the freedom we have. Or what? Because we can get worse? Those were bad words, they were very bad words, for freedom should not have any adjectives It's not better, it's not worse. Freedom is freedom. That's it. That's it. I don't want to remind you that in the century of Poland's regaining independence we should maybe it's too pathetic. Very careful, remember how you can lose your freedom, lose your freedom. I just have a few comments. I will remind you of what you mentioned earlier, Senator Grodzki. Recently, in June, we debated the Assembly Act. There were only four votes missing. You're really... I would like to thank you, also those sitting on this side, the ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of this bill. You wouldn't have any problems with the manifesto on November 11th now. Only four votes were short, so we could all be reasonable. This was the proposal that went as Poles in one manifestation, worshiping the century of regaining independence. Mr. Senator, it is important to remind you that not more than last year, during the debate, you tabled an amendment to the Supreme Court Act. He said it was illegal. It was ignored because you were walking like a roller. Today, for the seventh time, we will debate the Supreme Court Act and change it. We have all observed the behaviour of some officials recently against the people who protested here. They were the guardians of people with disabilities. Did we like that? Here's another line. I think we've all watched, we've seen the hero of my time, the '80s, Mr. Frasyniuk, who was taken from his house in handcuffs. It was a show. We saw the embarrassed faces of the cops who had to go there and say, "I'm sorry, but we have to handcuff you back." And the hooligan who is curled up and aggressive has his hands cuffed in the front. What about beating up women on November 11th and translating the D.A.? I'll say it again, but he didn't say it like that. We've all seen it on TV, ladies and gentlemen. The D.A. said they were beating in vulnerable places, and that the case was dropped. Ladies and gentlemen, that kind of word... I appeal. It's already on the border. I'm talking about crossing the line of freedom. Of course there was a manifestation, of course it was possible to remove the people who blocked the passage, but here it is said that they were beaten correctly, because they were not sensitive places. That's what the D.A. said. I'm pointing out the prosecutor. And Igor Stachowiak? Let's go over it. Would it be Igor Stachowiak's case? The only reason we heard about the Igor Stachowiak case was the TVN broadcast. And what happened? The author of this program had problems and stood before the DA's office. We don't know yet... We know the cops were still working, and we know the case is still unsolved. The law was also introduced. I do not remember exactly its name. . which authorised the dismissal of tax agents, including pregnant women and trade unions, without the possibility of cancellation. From the point of view. As a result of one bill, they went to the tabloids. One woman you know about the case, Senator Wcisla, miscarried. Is that freedom? Did we fight for this freedom in?Solidarity? We fought to make laws that allow someone to be fired with one move? I understand that in any situation you can... There were also cases that needed to be cut quickly. And the judges? What about Judge Zabłocki, who's going to stand in front of the disciplinary committee of the KRS? Ladies and gentlemen, we remember: this is Judge Zabłocki, who performed here before us. The judge, who has not only a beautiful resume, remembers all this. But he also said that it was freedom that free people would create free courts. Let's keep that in mind. What about this hatred directed at people who wear T-shirts that say "constitution"? And for shouting "Walęsa"? Recording and folding. What about the white rose? [[Belarus simply.]] This isn't Belarus. I wouldn't exaggerate. But let's be careful, because freedom is not given once and for all. And we have to watch out for these little concessions, Mr. Senator. Because it's so tiny... Before they introduced martial law - I remember exactly. They were preparing us for this, too. Urban was just saying some very ugly words about Father George. He was preparing us. He was preparing. Little steps. Like today, as in the Supreme Court Act, etc., etc. Are you okay? I'm sorry. Would you... I'd be here right now if I was called to the D.A.'s office... I no longer have a guarantee that this is an independent prosecutor's office. And I don't know what's gonna happen either. Is the freezing effect in the case of courts that any of us can face for some minor misdemeanor or other case... We're just people. Let's keep this freedom safe. And I would also like to bow down from this to the Minister, the Ombudsman, because he has a very difficult and difficult role to play. But thank you for being here and that in any situation people can appeal to you. Also in case of sleep. Sebastian Karpinuk has shown us the way. Because he no longer had a family, and his father's last will was violated. Thank you again. I think I'm doing it on behalf of all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u99	Thank you, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome. [[Beautiful, Grazhka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for a well-prepared activity report, for putting forward this report calmly, mainly on those subjects that, indeed, the Ombudsman, and all of us, should be concerned, i.e. to such areas where free Poland, free, democratic and law-abiding Poland Because this is Poland we see and Poland sees a huge, overwhelming majority of Poles However, it shows some imperfections. And in these areas, of course, we should all act. We should particularly lean on the rules that go wrong there, over situations when poor people, weak people lose to big corporations, to offices, to powerful people who are affected, to rich people who always feel that way. And that's often the way it is. That they're just a mountain. And those poor, weak people need backup. On the one hand, the need to support these people in their specific cases and, on the other hand, Every time something like this happens and fix these rules, those rules that may lead to situations in which they are harmed. This should be our common concern. And I hope that's what it is. I must say that after a few hours of these so-called questions I have some sense of sadness that this opportunity to think about how to protect those citizens who are being expelled from their fatherhood by ruthless developers, how to help those who, unable to cope with the justice system, lose everything they have, or everything that is dear to them, etc. etc.. Instead, for a few hours we have witnessed an attempt to create such an impression that we live in a completely different reality than the one most of us see in every place of our beloved country. Well, both the questioning state and, unfortunately, also the spokesperson in a large part of their speech created or gave us a vision of a reality which, in my view, is largely virtual. This reality just doesn't exist. [[Yeah, in your mind.]] This is a vision of a state that is oppressive, which persecutes citizens who do not respect their fundamental rights and in which some people are slowly no longer finding a place to live. After all, Poland does not look like this, it is completely different. Moreover, it turns out that we are witnessing such declarations, which are even dangerous. The Ombudsman says that he does not address the Constitutional Court with questions with which he would like and should ask, because he is afraid that the Court will decide them not in his mind, in short, he will not share his doubts. Well, you have repeatedly stressed that you are a civil servant, and your actions do not fall within the form of the office you represent. If there are doubts about something, then you have to ask this question and deal with all the consequences that in short paremia are defined: Dura lex, sed lex. According to the rules, it is the Constitutional Tribunal, not someone else, that should resolve such dilemmas. Why don't you do it? I don't understand. One of the debaters thankes the judges for being decent and, above all, the judges should act in accordance with the law, decide according to the law. If they acquit people who have been accused of any wrongdoing or crime, and this is in line with the principles according to which they should follow, then of course they do not need to be congratulated on being decent, just have to note that the system works as it should and very well. But let us not encourage them to act in a certain way, yet with some references to martial law or other times, which some of us, even a large part of us, remembers. It was really different back then. I remember mine, I would say, involvement in public affairs from the 1970s, and I know it really looked different. We used to put our head under an axe at the time. When I was involved in the production of the KOR Information Bulletin, at any time it was necessary to consider that all this, all this fun, would end up so that they would throw me out of school, they would not accept me into college, they would close, or maybe they would kill me. That's what happened. How can we relate to those times and make such comparisons? It doesn't make any sense. Just one look outside to see it. You can see it in this hallway, which is full of freedom of speech. [[And the police.]] Because what kind of media dominates here in this hallway? The media dominates completely independent of the government. Moreover, these are often media that are reluctant to the government or even openly fighting those who rule. Does anybody bother them in any way? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not talk about who thinks it is, but about how it is. The government works in an environment of extremely hostile media, and this is the best proof that freedom is in Poland. Just ask at the Warsaw Capital City Office how much for today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow is registered various kind of demonstrations, to see that in Poland we are dealing with full freedom in the field of manifestation. In turn, if someone wants to hinder others who use this freedom to manifest themselves on the street, then it is obvious that the responsible authority should stop it, because that is not the exercise of the freedom of public demonstration of their beliefs in order to disturb others. That's what it's all about. Freedom is never absolute, freedom ends where freedom of others begins. And this is a typical example of the fact that when we are dealing with abuses of freedom, the state must step in. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to go back to the time of martial law. I remember these demonstrations perfectly well, I also remember in the physical sense, because I once got so hit in the back that I still feel this place today. But you don't have to reach. That far. A few years ago, when I participated, in the horrors, in the March of Independence, with my wife and child, one of the children, I was shot at by the police with rubber bullets. For God's sake, I didn't have a stone in my hand at the time, nor did anybody else have one next to me, and the hail of rubber bullets fell on us. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today nothing like this is happening, there is full freedom of demonstration. Someone from the debaters here said he was terrified after November 11th. I think it's a little bit like we live in different worlds. Those who participated this year on 11 November in this great quarter-million-dollar march in Warsaw I'm one of them. They've seen smiling faces around them, whole families. Ladies and gentlemen, I also saw a man in a yarmulke in this march. That's what happened. I've seen a man with black skin. That's what happened. Anyone could come and we all demonstrated our attachment to our homeland together. Who wanted to, it was there who did not want, it was somewhere else, because on that day events with different political directions and attitudes, ideological, such and so many. This is the freedom that we all enjoy and that we should continue to enjoy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is actually a little bit on the margins of this point today, but I will say this. If we are really measuring Polish freedom in this way, then we must also pay attention to the matter of the courts. Regardless of how we evaluate the whole process of several amendments, amendments, etc., etc., we are today also just before the next item on the agenda, in which, as expected by those who disagreed with previous regulations, these provisions will be amended. [[Time.]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. And let's enjoy it together. I completely do not understand the opposition that votes against this amendment. What does that mean? Do you want to get Poland out of Europe? Is that it? Or, no, because you don't? Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be consistent. If we're gonna fix something, we're gonna fix it. This will be another point which, in my opinion, too much of this topic that is being discussed today, is not related, but I repeat once again: from the discussion so far, it has created an impression whether it has contributed to such an impression that we are living in a country where it is simply very bad. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens' rights spokespersons operate in all the most democratic and freest countries. These spokesmen always have their hands full, and thank God it is so, because it offers an opportunity for us, together with Parliament, also with the Senate, to take care of this freedom at an even higher level. So let us really enjoy this freedom, not because it is small and could be worse, just because in Poland you can enjoy freedom fully, because it is really very, very wide. Today in the churches we all sing together with the choir: "The home of the free blessing, Lord. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! It is not the Ombudsman who lives in a different world, I have the impression that you live in a different world than the Venice Commission, in a different world than the European Commission, than the Council of Europe, than the legal authorities, really. Don't joke in the Senate like that about the reality that's calling for a change that we're going to make, because some senators seem to be defending the changes that need to be taken back on their knees right now. So please do not say that everything is okay with the Polish legal system, with the Polish rule of law. And I have no doubt you're seeing it, too. I leave the question of why you say so. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman's activities prove how many times in Poland the law is violated and requires protection. Of course, it is not only Polish specificity, but it is necessary to be among people, to see neglected, independent, unattended, to know that institutions are needed to claim their fate. You have to use health services on a normal basis to know how much there is to be done to ensure that citizens' rights in terms of real access to medical services are implemented as appropriate. It takes a minority to know how much to do to secure their rights, including women's rights. I really think that the claims that in Poland with respect to the law is excellent are clearly exaggerated. And, Mr. Spokesman, I'm looking at Senator Czerwinski here. Indeed, these are thousands of cases, the specific issues of the weaker people you mentioned, who, thanks to you, have received very specific help. Maybe not everyone, maybe not always, maybe not everywhere, but I met people like this when I asked for an intervention. I could not succeed and these people could not perform their duties, the organisations could not work for the protection of the environment if it were not for the direct involvement of the Ombudsman's office and your spokesperson personally. These are specific issues specific to the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Spokesman, I would like to thank you very much. I think there are a lot of senators who could testify, show these people, name them, show them those things that not only managed to deal with individually, but also move to a higher level so that the law could be repaired. Because in our House, we also need to thank the Ombudsman for all the suggestions that we can take into account when we are willing to exercise our powers and fix the law. This is a good time to inform the High House that I am finishing my work on preparing a draft anti-odore bill. I come from a district where this is a very big problem, an increasing problem. I didn't accidentally ask your spokesperson. And I think we're going to ally ourselves in this case to finally settle this issue, for the benefit of a lot of people. On this occasion, I would also like to point out to the Ombudsman that the energy resort with which you are in dispute about the construction of energy lines when property rights are violated With different results, once good, once unfortunately not He pushed through this meeting, despite our objections, the amendments to the Real Estate Management Act, which now make all the decisions of the seniors in these cases have an immediate feasibility clause when it concerns renovations, modernisation, etc. This is contrary to the Constitution, which is contrary to the Court's rulings, which have been invoked here, and yet, contrary to opinions, it has been adopted here. And there were senators who defended it, disregarding the constitution, disregarding judgments, disregarding people's rights to their property. Unfortunately, these cases will probably arrive because new issues are emerging, e.g. issues of labour immigrants, compliance with their rights. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, we need guests to work, we need to take care of their rights so that they want to stay here and help us, so that perhaps some of them, hopefully as much as possible, would like to acknowledge Poland as their new homeland. But to do so, they must meet here with respect, protection of their rights; not with hatred, not with aggression, but with protection. Surely the Ombudsman can be helpful in this matter and we can also count on the help of the Ombudsman. Mr Ombudsperson, I was looking for words that would reflect your unique role in this extremely difficult time for the Polish rule of law. It came to my mind a quote from a very important work for Poland, I will quote these words: today your voice is a free voice, freedom of policyholder. You and your co-workers are in such a position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u103	Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Dear Collaborators of the Ombudsman! High Senate! I have just returned from a solemn meeting of Polish lawyers at the Royal Castle on the occasion of the centenary of Reborn Lawyer, where they were reminded of boastful cards, lawyers, both from the Second Republic and from the times of the Polish People's Republic, who defended people against the country's machine. These names are written in golden reports in the history of the lawyer and constitute a pattern. The first President of the Supreme Court, who was at our meeting today, also spoke and said that she noted that young lawyers, her students most wanted to choose the profession of lawyer, because they drew energy and patterns from those steadfast, courageous lawyers who had the courage to stand up to the state authority, very often putting themselves at risk, sometimes that their life, but also their career, their existence, because they were removed from the list of lawyers, at best. It also mentioned what was very satisfying for me, about the lawyers who were honoured by your Ombudsman, which was highlighted with a great applause as human rights defenders. They were among others. Attorney Taylor from Gdansk and my colleague from the Koszalin-Słupska Chamber of Bogock-Skowrońska. The lawyer appreciates very much that Mr. spokesperson Adam Bodnar is a man who sees here great analogys It defends citizens' rights, the rights of people who need such assistance more and more during this particular period. As we remember from the work on the budget law: more and more work, less and less money. That's weird, ladies and gentlemen. That's weird. After all, it takes a great deal of legal work to do these tasks, for example, to prepare for an erasing. I would like to add my thanks to the Ombudsman, who not only perfectly diagnoses things, sees things, but also realizes his message in a particular period. I think that your merits will be written in such strong reports that stand out in the history of the Ombudsman's office, an ombudsman in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, why was this office created in Europe? It's just to make him stand up for himself. This is due to the essence of this office. He's gonna fight back. That's his role. Just as it is the role of a lawyer to oppose a representative of the prosecutor's office. Of course, arguments, mostly legal arguments. The rule of law should institutionally ensure that these tasks are carried out as far as possible. And unfortunately, the financial constraints here are as bad as they are about the state of law as we are constitutionally. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make one last example of our senatorial activities, with our senatorial powers, as regards the possibility of submitting applications to the Constitutional Tribunal. We applied for that two years ago. I even had the satisfaction because we did it a week before Mr. Civil Rights Attorney. I was the representative of more than 30 senators who applied to the Court for a finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. He also submitted the proposal, although of course he had a different basis and perspective, Mr. Spokesman. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to withdraw these 2 proposals completely independently after 2 years. Mr. Spokesperson separately, senators separately. Ladies and gentlemen, what did it turn out to be? This bill was referred to a full-time review two years ago. Several times in this composition, I would say, manipulated, and to such an extent that there has not yet been a first hearing, and already several times the composition has been changed. The composition has been changed from full to 5-person, and the 5-person has been introduced, for which there are serious doubts. Most say it is. That's what I'm saying. So-called. judges of doubles, i.e. those whose presence in the composition unfortunately gives a fully substantiated plea of nullity of the proceedings on account of the improperly filled composition. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to show that in this country which is a constitutional state of law, the Ombudsman must withdraw his application precisely because of this situation, because it is difficult to agree with the fact that he should give in to a pre-manipulated composition which should not rule in such a cast. Thank you again, Mr. Spokesman. I would like your spokesperson to continue consistently doing this function so well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u106	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you very warmly for all the votes, both for the positive evaluation of my work and the Ombudsman's office... I would like to stress once again that we are making maximum efforts and we are trying to act with maximum good faith and maximum respect for the Constitution in order to implement the Ombudsman's mandate as best as possible in difficult conditions, and this mandate is to uphold the rights and freedoms set out in the Constitution and the ratified international agreements. As I listened to the speeches, I thought I would like to comment on a few things. The first issue is cyclical gatherings. This is actually innovation. This is an innovative institution, because in the world of democratic countries it is not known to book a place for demonstrations for the future and at the same time prohibit the organisation of counter-manifestations. This simply cannot be done, and this is contrary to the basic standards of rights and freedoms that concern freedom of assembly, which has been signalled by many at various stages of the legislative process. And we can be glad that already these, you can say, cyclical gatherings that are organized are less, but they still happen, even though the Independence March used this status, which caused various legal doubts. The second point I would like to mention concerns customs officers, including the staff of the Institute of Central and Eastern Europe. Yesterday I still had time to send a speech on this matter to the Senate Marshal, perhaps too late. That's the problem that's wider. Namely, it is not possible to automatically terminate the employment relationship of employees. This cannot be shortened and said: from now on, we interrupt our employment relationship and this will take place on new terms. But, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is not only about customs officers, because... here I look at Minister Warchoł, who appeared. I remember that this is what we discussed in the context of the Supreme Court Act in July 2017. After all, the same regulation was applicable to the employees of the Supreme Court, namely, in their case, they wanted to terminate the employment relationship regardless of their status, whether or not. among assistants or specialists at the Office of Studies and Analysis were persons who could be subject to special protection. It was the legislator who didn't care at all, nobody even looked at it. And if it weren't for the president's veto in this particular case, that's exactly what would happen. The President's veto helped to ensure that the later amendment of the Supreme Court Act, regardless of any other flaws, did not contain this provision. It is not possible under the law to treat workers in such a way as to undermine constitutional protection of work. Another point: the Constitutional Tribunal, this plea of withdrawal and the question that an official should not do so. Well, if this official has previously, as the senator said, the full composition, then the composition is changed and it is 5 people, then the changes are made in such a way that you cannot trust that in fact this composition will be fully independent... If I apply to exclude unauthorised persons and these requests are not recognised, then I have no other option. Because I prefer judges, even if the Supreme Court, to settle constitutional problems in the course of their ruling, rather than to leave it in such a way that the Constitutional Tribunal will de facto legitimize a state which undermines fundamental rights and civil liberties. My role as spokesperson This is standing up for civil rights and civil liberties and it's up to me that this is my sphere of independence. What instruments will I use for this: will I believe more in the common courts, the Supreme Court, or will I risk that the Constitutional Tribunal will cause a permanent non-compliance with human rights standards? Minister Radziwiłł said about the media, said that how many journalists here, that freedom of speech. But I remember my interventions, which involved restricting the freedom of the media and their presence in the halls of the Sejm and the Senate, when the plan was to move journalists, preferably to a separate building, so that they deal with contacts with politicians there. [[Voice from the room: We remember.]] It was a big argument. It was a dispute which was the result of protests after 16 December 2016, a dispute about getting journalists out of here, preferably out of the Sejm building. And the fact that they're here, Minister, that's the effect, among other things. protest of journalists, but also among others. my protests, because I said that such a situation would threaten freedom of speech, freedom of information. I will not even talk about the situation in public media, about numerous matters, about the fact that we represented or supported journalists in trials before courts, about the case of Jerzy Sosnowski released from Polish Radio, from Program 3 and other journalists who concluded settlements as a result of public media redundancies. I will not even talk about the fact that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016 was not enforced, the symbolic date of the 2016 National Radio and Television Council. I demand the execution of this judgment, I demand that pluralism be included in the media, but unfortunately it does not come to a vulnerable ground. So that it is not so colorful and so beautiful when it comes to standards of debate, standards of freedom of speech in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for those words. And I'm gonna tell you at the very end, and I wish you could hear this, the first president, that... [[He hears.]] [[He hears.]] ...for me this is the biggest award that I can perform here today, I can perform after a year after these dramatic events in July 2017. And once again, I would like to look Minister Warchoł in the eye, because it was Minister Warchoł who was among others. for this to happen at a time when your first President of the Supreme Court may still claim and be, because all the time it is, he is the first President of the Supreme Court. This is the foundation of the protection of rights and freedoms, that the Supreme Court remained an independent judicial body in Poland. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u107	Thank you very much. I thank the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information. High Senate, I state that the Senate has read about the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2017 and the Ombudsman's activities. Thank you very much, Mr. Ombudsman, thank you to your colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1020 and the report of the committee In print No 1020 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, which has examined the law on amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. It happened this morning. Of course, the entire bill was unanimously approved. I just want to clarify that the aim of the law is to implement in the Polish legal order a directive of the European Parliament on certain ways of using certain works. I do not want to expand this because, of course, we have everything described in the documents, but for public information and for the information of the senators, for the knowledge of the senators, I will just say that the beneficiaries of these solutions will be, regardless of any other dysfunction, including. blind persons with non-corrective visual organ dysfunction, limited ability to perceive or read or other physical dysfunction. In short, people with disabilities will benefit from this law. On behalf of the committee, please be positive... please pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u109	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Mr President. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Lewandowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the Law and Justice Club, I declare a half-hour break until 2.45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 13 to 14 minutes 44]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u110	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, may I announce an extension of the recess until 3:15 p.m. I thought that was good news. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 44 to 15 minutes 18]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The text of the act is contained in print No. 1019 and the report of the committee In print No 1019 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal...]] In what mode does the marshal want to speak? [[About the formal issue.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u111	Mr. Marshal, there are no representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and I therefore request a short break to allow the representatives of the Ministry to arrive. I don't understand why they're not here. They were yesterday. [[Voice from the room: They were here today too.]] There were vice-ministers here today, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u112	Mr. Marshal, I'm explaining to you. The Minister is in the lobby. He's talking to reporters. He'll be present. [[Uh-huh. Then why don't we wait until the minister's done talking to...]] The senator has a voice. The Minister will speak in due course. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, after yesterday's meeting, requests the adoption of a law on the Supreme Court without amendment. The purpose of the Act is to amend the provisions relating to the transition to retirement of judges of the Supreme Court and judges of the Supreme Administrative Court after reaching a certain age. The Act implements the obligation imposed on Poland under the provisions of the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 October 2018. This provision was issued on a case brought by the European Commission against the Republic of Poland on 2 October 2018, in which it was argued that by reducing the retirement age of the Supreme Court judges and applying it to judges appointed to the Supreme Court before 3 April 2018, and by granting the President of the Republic of Poland the right to extend the active service of the Supreme Court judge, Poland failed to fulfil its obligations, etc. That's all I'd say about the scope of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u114	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask a question? Mr. Senator... [[Marshal Borusewicz.]] We have a list. The first is the senator, Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u115	Mr. Senator, what you have invoked is the protection of an action that says that all the movements that have been made in connection with the Supreme Court recently are back... well, they're not back, they're just stopped and they're back to the state before the previous law, the Sixth Law on the Supreme Court. Tell me because there's no judgment, that's collateral, and the sentence is a commitment that needs to be fulfilled. What happened after six laws, and that sixth law decided... [[Voice from the room: 7th.]] ...and this Sixth Law decided to retire to the resting state of the Supreme Court judges who were 65 years of age, at the moment, invoking this protection, not judgment, changing these rules and restoring old principles? Does this mean that the legislator and the majority of the Sejm and Senate are admitting a mistake? Has there been any mistake that needs to be withdrawn or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u116	Mr. Marshal, do you have any further questions? 'Cause if we did, we'd be asking... [[No, I have one question...]] One question? [[...basically.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u117	Mr. Marshal, what you said doesn't apply to this bill at all. I'll say what I said yesterday. She made her statement clearly in this matter to the Registrar of the Court of Justice of the European Union... [[A spokesperson.]] A spokesperson? I heard the secretary. ...that just what we have taken was waiting for the Court of Justice of the European Union, that if we adopt this law, it will be the law that the tribunal was waiting for. Because yesterday someone accused me: why doesn't the tribunal suspend the proceedings? He can't suspend until we're done proceding this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u118	You're asking Senator Klich another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u119	Mr Senator, I would ask you to quote in this House the justifications that you have presented in order to submit this law to the Senate. If I remember correctly, and I even wrote it down, it was said that this law amending the previous law radically, although not entirely, stems from loyalty to the bodies of the European Union. At the same time, the Minister considered that that law, which was to be amended by this law, was in line with the Polish constitution. If I remember correctly, that was yesterday's justification. How, then, does the explanatory statement in writing contain such a statement, and I will quote it: the legislative initiative was inspired primarily by reservations, including constitutional ones? Do you understand any of this? I think it's internally contradictory. [[What were the reservations?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u120	Do you have any further questions? [[No.]] It's one thing, isn't it? [[I've got another one, but it's one thing.]] If so, I'd ask them to be 3 in the block so it might be easier to answer. [[It'll be a longer answer, so maybe...]] Good. [[He'll forget...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u121	I will answer you, Senator, yes: the amendment is primarily the result of our declarations that we will comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and with provisions and safeguards. That's all I'm gonna say. [[And the constitutional objections mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, so what?]] No, don't ask me that question because we're talking about the bill. [[Yeah, about the bill.]] No, no, no. What you're saying is not... [[About the explanatory memorandum to the bill.]] Did you read it? [[I read it.]] Good. [[How do you understand that?]] I read the committee's report, and what you're asking me doesn't concern my report. [[So you don't understand?]] You think it might be. [[I see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u122	You're asking Senator Florek a question. [[I'll have a question too.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u123	Mr President, I see you're in very good shape after yesterday, so maybe I'll be back by yesterday. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall be held within the time limits laid down by the committee itself or its chairman. Well, we know it wasn't set by the committee because the committee didn't meet, the deadline yesterday was set by you. There were no representatives of the Supreme Court, nor of the National Court, nor of the NSA, none of the invited guests. That question came up yesterday. You're invited according to the charter, you've notified... Maybe today you remember because yesterday you didn't remember what time the invitations were sent, and how did it happen that unfortunately these people weren't at the committee meeting? Why don't you remember today after that whole day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u124	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u125	Mr. Senator, as I said yesterday, I will repeat this today. I don't run a buffalery like this, I don't write down who I invite. I usually invite you when I get the information that there's a committee meeting. Then I send the invitations right away. Could've been around 11:00 yesterday. Could've been around 1:00. I can't tell you. However, I always do this right away when I get the information that the committee's meeting is to be held today, I immediately inform the invited guests. Often before, but that's what happens when things happen the way they were yesterday. That's what I did yesterday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u126	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u127	Is it possible to ask the President and the rapporteur to extend his information on the work of the committee to these facts, the events that have taken place? Namely what other positions were, apart from what you presented, and according to which the committee was in agreement to accept without amendment this... [[I don't remember...]] That's one thing. [[I'll answer that.]] Secondly, I would like to know whether you, as a truly experienced senator and conductor, did not consider it appropriate to slow down the pace of work and, for example, arm yourself with opinions, give time to the legislative department and gather other opinions in order to avoid the mistakes that have been made during the previous 2 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u128	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u129	The opinion to this bill was 7 and they were all negative. They were delivered by senators who... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. They weren't members of the committee, but they came to the hearing, which they were entitled to. Well, they were all negative. I forced one senator to file a motion, and he finally filed a motion to reject the bill. As for the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, all the senators have received this opinion and you have been able to read it. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I've been misunderstood.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u130	Then please clarify the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u131	Mr Senator, Mr President, those were not opinions. I was a participant in this meeting. They were senators' voices. [[Voice from the room: Microphone on.]] [[Turn on the mike.]] And I'm talking about the opinion of experts, present or absent. Why haven't such opinions been put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u132	I told you. There was an opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Only that opinion was.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u133	You're asking Senator Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u134	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Do you distinguish between the implementation of the safeguard provision, the essence of which is to return to previous legislation, from the shaping of new legislation, which is what you are doing now? It's not the same. After all, you are introducing a different period when it comes to moving to a resting state. It's 65, not 70 years old. You do not execute this decision, this provision, you do not implement the essence of the decision of the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Do you distinguish between these two issues? These are very important legal nuances and there is absolutely no way to shape a new system right now. [[Mr. Senator...]] This can only be done after the ruling. [[...you're starting to argue.]] No, no, that's the first question. [[The question has been raised.]] Yeah, okay. That's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u135	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u136	Mr. Senator, I'd like you to focus on this orange print. It's written all over it. What you're asking me has nothing to do with this. [[What do you mean, it's gone?]] Well, there isn't. [[You just...]] [[Wait a minute, Mr. Senator.]] I can't help it. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u137	You will speak in a moment. Is the senator finished? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Yes. Senator Rybicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I am focusing on this... [[Please...]] ...what is not in this report. I would like to ask the senator why applicants, Members of Law and Justice, your party colleagues, did not take the opportunity to respond in this submission to all other constitutional objections concerning the Supreme Court, including in particular the Disciplinary Chamber, the institution of emergency complaint, the jury, and the choice of Supreme Court judges by the Supreme Court, whose legality is also contested. Why didn't you take the opportunity? Why aren't all these solutions in this print that has been submitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u139	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u140	Senator, I'll ask my colleagues after the meeting. [[That's a ridiculous response from the chairman of the committee.]] No, that's your answer. [[Voice from the room: No kidding.]] [[This is a joke.]] [[Why, you want him to make it up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u141	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, senators, there's no discussion yet. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u142	Everyone answers how they can. What do you mean? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, Robert can do that anyway. [[Yes, sir.]] Mr. Senator, I'm here about those orange-and-white cards, too. It's about art. 3 (1) (a) 1 and 2. In short, the judge who, in your opinion, has become inactive and will remain inactive in the state you sent him to will receive a 100% wage and should receive a 75% wage. I understand that your attitude towards the judges you sent to the forced... [[Voice from the room: Briefing.]] [[Leisure.]] ...rest... You didn't send them there as a reward. You have the right attitude to them; I will discuss this with you in the debate about the Supreme Court judges. But please tell me: is it that the judges get 100% salaries, not 75% Is he a prize? What kind of formula is that anyway? How did you deal with this at the committee meeting, and how do you, as Law and Justice, refer to it? Why Some Will Have 75% And they're gonna get 100%. ?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u143	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u144	This is a Parliamentary project, Members have adopted such a narrative... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We have not made any amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u145	You ask Senator Borusewicz, the marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u146	Thank you very much. [[Please don't ask questions, because it's a waste of time. It doesn't make any sense.]] Mr. Chairman, tell me... [[What are you doing here?]] ...why this promotion for 100% will the pension only last for 7 days and not for 14? [[That's the record.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u147	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u148	That's the bill. [[Voice from the room: Good position...]] Well, there's an opportunity to submit amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u149	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As you know, I rarely speak. As a man who spent many years in business, every time I had any doubts, I directed my doubts to people who knew things better than I did. I would like to address your leadership, Mr Senator, Mr President, to all the Senators of the PiS with such an appeal. If you remember these six laws and our nightly discussions we've been having... After all, you remember that we have greatly reduced our House's level. I implore you as a man of dignity: let us try to do a little differently than in the Seym when in 3 hours and 15 minutes... [[Mr. Senator, this is an appeal, not a question. Ask me a question.]] Here's my question. Senator rapporteur, could we dare and ask significant legal authorities in our country to issue a final decision? It's just that we don't have to be funny... [[Voices from the O.R.: To give an opinion.]] Yeah, an opinion. I remind you that December 12th is the next Senate meeting, and then we could take it with a clear conscience... I appeal and please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u151	Mr. Senator, you're welcome. I guess the question was, the appeal... But the question was, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u152	There is a draft resolution, if there are any proposals on your part, then please, you can make any amendments. If the High House accepts them, they'll come in, they'll be the law. For today's project is as proposed by the committee, accepted. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u153	Senator Rulewski will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u154	I will adapt, Mr President, to your point, but can you remind me how the Minister explained at the meeting the issue of a sharp decline in the age of judges who are to retire, including gender differences, to men and women... And the second question. Is it true that the only valid argument such as this is that someone is old? This violates the principle of non-discrimination, the right to non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u156	I have a heartfelt request, Senator. I respect you, and I don't want to answer here, I would very much ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u157	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u158	Senator, one question you answered was that the Minister only appealed to European loyalty, not to compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. However, other important arguments in this debate were also put forward by the opposition during this meeting. Is it true that at the meeting of this committee we also talked about the fact that the law is unnecessary because the safeguard provision is implemented directly and that it does not require any additional statutory regulation? Is it true that we have pointed out that this law does not cover all the matter of the previous law, but some parts of it? And is it true? I'll remind you what Senator Zientarski said. That this law introduces new solutions, such as they had not been before, and which introduce inequality between judges going to rest? I mean, it's gonna be 75%. pay for those who go to rest, let's call it a natural rhythm, and 100% for those who decide to retire in the next 7 days. Was this all mentioned at the committee meeting? Because we've been talking about all this, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u159	Don't call for God's mercy in vain. Of course, it was mentioned, of course it was mentioned. But once again, the committee, after hearing all the speeches, all the senators decided to adopt the proposed law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u160	Thank you. Does Marshal Borusewicz want to speak, or... [[I'd have a question, but, Mr. Marshal...]] If you don't have it... [[I'm addressing the Senators of the Platform to show some mercy...]] Mr. Senator, I don't know how you speak, but if there's no question, then... [[In mercy mode, mercy mode.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] No questions. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u161	I will conclude by saying, Mr. Senators of the opposition, as you did two years ago at the Constitutional Court, that's not what you said. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: But in 2016...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u162	Gentlemen of the Senators, allow us to conduct our deliberations. Everyone's gonna talk. [[But...]] Mr. Senator Zientarski, as a dry senator, you understand that we will speak in the discussion. Right? So let's let the next points be realized now. The bill was introduced by Members, but we have a government representative, Mr Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. And I ask, would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki came in first, and the next person will be saved in order. Senator Komarnicki. And the Minister, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we're all light people. We read, we watch, we follow what's going on in the world. You seem like an intelligent man, and you know that... [[Senator...]] I'm sorry, I'm serious. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I, Mr. Marshal? [[You can, but watch your mouth.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I didn't offend anyone, Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. [[Proceed.]] If I've offended anyone, I'm sorry. [[That's very good.]] Minister, in the United States... We are so often modelled on this country, which actually has great merit in terms of democracy... You know perfectly well, don't you? I've got lawyers in my family. In the United States, a lawyer at the age of 70 and 80 imposes a crown in terms of experience. What kind of devil told us about those early retirements? For God's sake! [[Voice from the room: Name and surname...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u164	Minister, you have the floor. Gentlemen of the senators, please hold off on the laughter. We're talking about serious stuff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Article 180. 4th Constitution of our Polish, not American, because we live in Poland It provides that the age of retirement shall be determined by the law. This is defined by the legislator. Well, judges are free to go, but they're subject to constitutions and laws. Therefore, I respond in this way: twice in our history, the latest, after 1989, the age of the transition to retirement and twice in the Constitutional Tribunal, first in 1998 and later in 2013, ruled on the compatibility of such solutions with the Constitution. [[So it doesn't get to 40...]] In the first case, it was a reduction in age, and in the second case it was an increase in age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u166	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, at yesterday's committee meeting, Minister Piebiak said it was about rejuvenating the Supreme Court... [[What's wrong with me?]] Yes. What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? [[There was nothing like that.]] Tell me if this is the position of the Ministry of Justice and what it actually means. And the other thing. Did you know about the Supreme Court since the beginning of your work on judicial amendments? I look here in the text of the statement of reasons - That when you propose such solutions, you violate constitutional laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u168	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u169	Thank you very much. Senator, the discussion was in this room six months ago. [[July.]] July, which was over a year ago. Today we are discussing a completely different bill. I in this bill, which is the subject of our deliberations, absolutely do not see the kind of issues that the senator is talking about. Is there any mention here of rejuvenating the Supreme Court? No. [[What if it isn't? And 65 years?]] This refers to the implementation of the interim measures of the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's all. [[I'm talking about yesterday's session.]] Let us therefore deal with this draft legislative act, a project which implements European Union law. We are the government of the European Union, we respect European Union law... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...and we'll respect you. We therefore feel obliged to implement this provision. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u170	Does the senator want to clarify or ask a new question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u171	Yes. To the second question, the question about the constitution, the Minister did not answer. But I, Minister, told you... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Aha, constitution...]] ...about last night's speech from your colleague in the department. He said it was about rejuvenation, two or three times he said that you wanted to rejuvenate the Supreme Court. [[Didn't he?]] [[That's not what happened.]] Therefore, my question only and only because I can read is this: is this the position of the Ministry of Justice? That's all. And I'll remind you the second question. In preparing this previous amendment, the sixth one, because this one is the seventh one, did you know that it violates the constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u172	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u173	The law we are discussing today concerns the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court, which was presented by your President and which has been in line with the Constitution since the beginning, is in line with the Constitution and nothing changes to this extent. That's most of all. She was needed, she's needed, she's necessary. [[Who?]] Therefore, what we see here, including printing, is merely the implementation of the order of the Court of Justice of the European Union, with which we disagree and which we implement. [[What's the point?]] Respect for the judgment is a sign of respect for the law, even if we disagree with it. It is always, or at least often so, that one of the parties leaves the court unhappy, but the judgment applies. That is the issue of the rule of law, that is the respect for European Union law. We are the government of the European Union, and therefore we respect this law and implement it. [[The government of the country in the European Union.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, allow me, the Minister is talking about important matters, let's listen.]] As for the issue of rejuvenation, what is consistently asked by the senator is... Well, I'm talking about the bill here, not the words of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u174	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask: what moves you to amend the Supreme Court law so frequently? This is probably the sixth amendment. [[Seven o'clock.]] Sorry, seven o'clock. What is the basis for such a frequent amendment? You have told us during the amendment of the Supreme Court Act that these solutions you are proposing are the best, the most important, expected by the sovereign, and it turns out that after the first amendment you are still updating this law six times more times. And, little of this, the changes you are making are in opposition to those you were sure were excellent and necessary for the smooth functioning of the justice system in Poland. And, little of that, you considered that they were constitutionally compatible, and we all had doubts at the time about the compatibility of those provisions with the Constitution. And, little of that, the Court of Justice of the European Union also raises these doubts. I'd like you to, too. Because you too, Minister, personally persuaded us about the rightness of the changes then made... [[I'm sure you do.]] [[It's nothing.]] And today you stand before us again and question what you have persuaded us to do with such power and determination. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u176	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u177	I repeat that I do not agree with the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but I respect it. And I am absolutely maintaining what I said in this Chamber a year ago and later: these changes are needed, they are in line with the Constitution. Art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 clearly indicates that the legislative role is to modify and change the age of retirement. And here absolutely nothing changes in this respect. [[How does it not change?]] I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u178	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: is this amendment exhausting the content of the European Commission's proposal to the Strasbourg Court or is it not exhausting? And if it's possible for a scenario like this... [[Luxembourg.]] [[Luxembourg.]] [[They don't care.]] I mean, is it exhausting the allegations that were made in this motion? And whether it is possible to make such a scenario that the European Commission will not withdraw this proposal from the TSUE, will consider it and e.g. will the judgment be delivered in April exactly, so on the eve of the elections to the European Parliament? Thank you very much... Is this scenario theoretically possible or not possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u180	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u181	Thank you. The provision concerns the suspension of the application of the 3 provisions of Article. 37, 111 and 5 of the amending act. And this scope of appeal is set out in the resolution that we are dealing with today. The Court of Justice of the European Union must not go beyond the scope of the Commission's action in its proceedings. The subject of this debate is therefore clearly defined. It concerns three provisions, the wording of which is restored to this project. That's all. And what will happen in the future? I firmly believe that the European Commission, although it has so far had double standards, is proof of the fact that in many countries the selection of judges is purely political, that I will only point out Ireland, where the Supreme Court judges are appointed by the President at the binding request of the government; that I will point out, for example. Spain, where members of the National Judicial Council are appointed by Parliament; Sweden, where the National Judicial Council is appointed by the Government; some German lands, e.g. Saxony or Bavaria, where the judges are elected by the Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court of Germany is elected by 32 persons, respectively... [[But he has other functions, Minister.]] ...half by politicians, representatives of the Bundestag, and half by ministers of justice of the various states... The European Union cannot therefore act in this way that it will question any other solution, because it would conflict with the systems of other countries which clearly indicate... In Spain, for example, the parliament elects members of the National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u182	The senator wants to ask you a new question? [[Yes, sir. Ask around.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u183	Minister, I wasn't talking about the Court's decision. And that's what you've been focusing on. I was only referring to the content of the complaint which was lodged with the TSUE. Does this amendment exhaust those allegations that were in the complaint, or does it not exhaust them? And whether, therefore, In case it doesn't run out Is it possible, for example, that further action by the EUSF will be followed up by requests for collateral or a verdict, if this is to be accelerated, on other aspects raised in the European Commission's complaint? This is, in my opinion, crucial for the whole of our discussion. What is the view here? Because there was such a presumption in the media that this amendment would sort of close the problem, i.e. not so much the problem as the European Commission's complaint to the Strasbourg Court. And I'd like to ask you here...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u184	Please, Minister. [[...for your position on this matter. Thank you.]] The question is, I think we know now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u185	Thank you very much. It's exhausting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u186	Thank you. The next question you ask is Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u187	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I think it's about art. 3 about the transition... Those who, according to your interpretation, have retired and will not return, in short, will receive 100% salaries. In normal mode you can get 75%. What's at stake, what's the philosophy of this record, why...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u188	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u189	Thank you very much. Implementation of the Article Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 Constitution, according to which the legislator provides 100% the equivalent of judges who are at rest. The content of this provision is the basis for this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u190	Now you're asking Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u191	My question concerns Art. 4. Namely, in the Sejm, at the final stage of the work, provisions were added which make this article applicable also for proceedings relating to the establishment of a service relationship by the National Courts of Justice. Is it true that the implementation of these provisions will oblige the Supreme Court to withdraw its questions about the independence of the National Courts Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u193	I don't know what specific cases of this kind... [[It's about the appeal.]] ...this change concerns. It's hard for me to speculate on what kind of proceedings, specific procedures to cancel them out. I have no idea. The legislator... [[And in the opinion of the Minister, why was this amendment introduced?]] I have no knowledge of the specific procedures to which this amendment would apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u194	Now you're asking Senator Rulewski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u195	I'm going back to a case that's crucial. 'Cause she originally sorted the judges out at the discretion of, let's say, the rulers. That's age. As you would have explained, Minister, it is a great distinction between the age of retirement of the Supreme Court judges... It has been said that it is to be 65 years old, although in the case of those who have been withdrawn, the age of 70 is restored. Next: how can it be explained that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have practically no such censorship, although it is necessary to comply with the Supreme Court's orders, and there, as you can see, this censorship is fluid? And how do we interpret the fact that common court judges still have other age limits for retirement? Especially that everywhere, despite the requirements of the European Union, you apply discrimination against women. Moreover, this discrimination against women who are judges of the courts is more negative than what President Duda proposed in the universal system...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u196	Mr. Senator, you've already gone beyond the question. Ask me a question, and we'll have a discussion later. [[Well, I said that question.]] That means you're done. [[Good. Yes.]] There you go. [[Why such discriminatory practices, different practices?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u197	Senator, the role of the legislator is to shape the age of retirement in every court and tribunal as it sees fit. Differentiation does not mean discrimination. Is the judge of the Tribunal discriminated against the Supreme Court or vice versa? I wouldn't talk about discrimination. The word "discrimination" has certain connotations, it is worse to treat one against the other. Is there any discrimination between one judge and another or a judge of the common court against another judge? Oh, no. It's not discrimination. That's the age difference, because the legislator said so. I can answer the question of this diversity by answering any questions you may have. I listened to yesterday's discussion on the committee, and that was the question. I think it might be done today. What is the reason for the distinction between the age of the Supreme Court judges themselves, those who were in the Supreme Court at the time of the entry into force of the President's law, those who entered the Supreme Court under this law, and those who would enter it in the future? There are three groups of judges. How does that work? Here, of course, I can answer as much as possible, because this is the law. There are three groups of judges. In the case of the first group of judges, we restore the age of 70, and at their request it will be 72 years old. That's exactly what happened. before the change from last year. In the case of judges who have come as a result of last year's changes, this will be the age of 65 years and at their request 70 years old. Those who are yet to come will be referred to as 65 years of age, which is the same as in common courts. [[Not the same, because in common court you can apply for an extension, and here you can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u198	Mr. Senator, you're about to have a vote. Now you're asking Senator Shark a question. [[Don't mislead us, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll remind you... Given the fact that you said it was all constitutional, I'm going to quote the justification. This comes from the state: the draft law goes on, however, as it eliminates from the legal system those solutions which may have caused doubts as to their compatibility with the Constitution. Are you having second thoughts about whether or not you're having second thoughts about constitutional compatibility? [[Everyone set up...]] Yeah, set everyone up. The Constitution is superior, it is above all other laws. Second question. You said on TV, I remembered it very well, with a little smile, of course, that the judges, going to a resting state, would be able to rest and get some good money. Would you back out of those words today? [[What does that have to do with the case?]] Exactly. Exactly. That's what I remember. Would you back out of those words? That's my third question. You have written down that the bill has a positive social impact. So you're confirming that what you've done so far has caused negative social consequences, and you're fixing these things today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u200	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u201	Thank you very much. I'm talking to Senator Rulewski. Women's theme. Art. 37 §5, which we do not change, indicates that the Supreme Court judge, who is a woman, may retire from the age of 60 by making a statement to the first President of the Supreme Court, who shall forward it immediately to the President of the Republic of Poland. The first President of the Supreme Court makes a statement directly to the President of the Republic of Poland. We're not changing anything here. [[That's discrimination.]] [[Mr. Senator, you're gonna say that in your discussion.]] The next question was the senator's doubts about the justification. Let me quote: the legislative initiative has been inspired primarily by reservations, including a constitutional nature, concerning the shape of the rules on the transition of judges to rest, raised by different environments in the country, including certain public authorities. These are reservations which the legislator has not written about, that he shares them. He didn't say he had such reservations. He, on the basis of a reference, cites a historical condition that took place at the time of the adoption and discussion of those provisions, which is well known. The senator had such reservations. Therefore, out of respect for the senator, the legislator included this in the statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u202	Does the senator have a fourth question, or does he want to be more specific?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u203	No, I asked if the Minister would apologize for those words, but I don't expect... The Minister, if he thinks about it, maybe the president can put it in private. So when it comes to this non-constitutionality, then, quoting the classics, you're all in favor and even against it, right? So there are doubts about constitutional records, but basically... [[But they don't have...]] But you don't, do you? [[Talking in the O.R.]] How exactly am I supposed to understand that? Because maybe I'm tired or... [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Are there any doubts about whether they're gone?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u204	Minister, you're welcome. [[Minister, are they or are they not here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u205	I'll say it again... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] ...the constitutional doubts the legislator doesn't have any. The rules are consistent with the constitution, necessary, necessary. And what we are discussing is the result of the implementation of the order of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u206	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u207	I'm glad, Minister... [[With what?]] ...that a man who has no constitutional doubts was forced by those, including us, and those who were on the street, to take these doubts into account. [[Voice from the hall: Street and abroad.]] This is very, very important. And now I want to ask you And I'd like you to answer me as accurately as possible. Did the Minister or Deputy Minister Piebiak or Minister Ziobro or any official of the Ministry of Justice work on this project called the Parliamentary Project? Did it happen or not? I'm asking for a simple answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u208	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u209	Yes, it was consulted with us. [[Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u210	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u211	Thank you very much. I'm gonna be a bit obstinate with the maniac, Minister, asking about it. Your answer to my earlier question. You referred to the article. Paragraph 180 of the Constitution. 4, namely to that paragraph, which states that the Act sets the limit of the age after which the judges are retired. Right? That's what you told me. [[Yeah, it is.]] And I have a question about art. 183 of the Constitution, paragraph 1. 3. I'm asking about the first Supreme Court judge. And that's what we're talking about. I quote: That the first President of the Supreme Court appoints the President of the Republic of Poland for a six-year term from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court. And imagine that the President will appoint the first President of the Supreme Court, knowing that the first President of the Supreme Court will reach retirement age in a month. That means in your opinion that the first president of the Supreme Court is losing his office in a month or that As the Constitution says, art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The term of office lasts 6 years. I'm asking you a specific question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u212	The answer. [[The answer. Excuse me.]] [[This has nothing to do with...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u213	Is this the subject of this bill? It's not like that. We can discuss...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u214	Minister, I'm sorry. [[There isn't.]] Is the Constitution the subject of a law or is the constitution superior to the law? That's a fundamental question. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u215	That's the second question. But let's give the Minister an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u216	I'd ask you to ask questions about the contents of the bill we're dealing with... [[Voice from the room: No!]] ...not about abstract questions, because we can talk about anything... [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] ...about interpretations, different kinds of interpretations, etc., but it's a waste of time. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[How?]] I find this question of the senator completely unrelated to the subject of today's bill, but I will answer you. A judge who has retired may not act as the first President of the Supreme Court. [[Says who?]] That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u217	You're asking Senator Rusiecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A question to the Minister about this novel. I'm interested in art. 2 (2) 6. I'd like an explanation and an answer to the question. I quote here: the judge referred to in paragraph. 1, who has returned to office in his previous post, is obliged to reimburse the benefits received in connection with the transition to retirement. How will this be enforced? And what kind of measures could that be, depending on a particular judge's position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u219	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u220	Thank you very much. This solution is the consequence of the adoption of a certain presumption, which introduces a draft law, that the term of office of a Supreme Court Judge is considered to be continuous. And since the service is continuous, it has not ended, it has not been interrupted, then acceptance of the check-in is unreasonable and should be returned. In the mouth. 7 we read that the Minister of Justice will determine, by means of a regulation, how, how, how, how, how and how and when the reimbursement of benefits will be made. But this is what order These are benefits, I find it difficult to say right now. I think it's a question to the Supreme Court judges themselves who have taken such benefits. Whether these are benefits for unused leave, or are those benefits for checks... It is a question of question and answer from the Supreme Court itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u221	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u222	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to ask you what's not in this bill, and I think it might be possible to extend the title a little bit. Don't you think it's not worth it just waiting for the Court's decision to secure the case or the Court's judgments to take this opportunity? Or is the government already preparing, in connection with this judgment, some legal acts that would normalize the situation of the judiciary and restore the order of the government, which is in line with the constitution? Or is the government going to react, as I said, in a reactive way to judgments? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: I would ask for clarification, because I don't understand...]] Is there work in the Ministry or maybe the Minister knows about the work in the Sejm... Because with this bill, you worked or consulted her. Are there any other laws in progress that would restore compliance in Poland with the constitution of laws such as the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the system of common courts, the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u223	In the senator's question, there's a suggestion, perhaps even a plea of non-constitutionality. So I would ask the senator to justify this question, because it is difficult for me to refer to a general statement of non-constitutionality in a situation where... [[So it's important to clarify...]] ...there was no decision of the competent authority... [[Minister...]] ...to be incompatible with the Constitution. So if someone of this type, very strong, bets, it should justify it. This is the basic principle of the burden of proof. You throw a rock, then don't hide your hand. So please show at which moments the rules currently in force are incompatible with the Constitution, specifically with which constitutional solutions And then we're gonna talk about specifics. Thank you. [[Minister, if I may state...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u224	Please be more specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u225	The Minister is probably aware of the fact that the Venice Commission and the European Commission are questioning these legal solutions which I have mentioned as incompatible with the Constitution and with the rules that apply to other countries of the European Union. It's a mystery. After all, we have been debating this in the public debate for months, even today there was a debate in this Chamber, whether the law is constitutional or unconstitutional. Well, that's the minister's running away from the answer. I ask: are there any ongoing work on amending the laws on the National Courts, on the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the system of common courts and on the Supreme Court to the extent that the laws are challenged by the European Commission, the Venice Commission and the dominant part of the legal environment in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u226	Does the Minister want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u227	I understand that right now I'm going to scan the entire constitution and analyze every provision of the Constitution from the perspective of the potential non-compliance that the senator sees with the solutions that we don't know... This is... Come on, Senator, let's be serious. General question: do you want to change... [[The question is, is there work going on or not?]] ...law, because it's against the constitution... [[That's a very specific question.]] Show me which provision is incompatible, in your opinion, with which provision of the Constitution and I will then be able to speak as a scientist, as a lawyer, but not as a representative of the government, because we are subject to the presumption of constitutionality and presumption of legality of acts constituted until another state is determined by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Minister...]] This is what the rule of law requires, and it is very simple.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u228	I'm sorry, but I'm going to intervene because there's actually a misunderstanding here. The senator asks if any legislative work is in progress. [[Voice from the room: Very simple question. Are they still going on or not?]] Are they still going on or not? [[Are the work going on or aren't they still going on?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Whatever the reason...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u229	Whatever the reason... I'll tell you what. Yes, sir, there are very good legislative work on the revision of the criminal code, the code of criminal proceedings, the revision of the law on the security of mass events, ladies and gentlemen... [[But I'm talking about changing things back...]] [[Wait a minute.]] You've had the opportunity, Mr. Senator, over all these years to amend the security law for mass events. 2002, legal brook, 66 judgments... The harshest of them. 12 thousand zlotys. And in other countries? Let me remind you how it was in France: 4,000 100 judgments in the first 10 years. This situation needs to be changed. We have huge economic problems and we need to pursue criminals, effectively pursue... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...not to wait years for justice! Yes? Twelve thousand... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, sir, there are changes! [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet.]] The next shift... [[The Minister shall respond in accordance with his approval. You can ask...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...in the middle of a discussion.]] There are very good changes, for example. in the Penal Code. Why can a criminal count on, say, a promotion in the event of a theft from one apartment? The same punishment is for stealing from all apartments in a cage. It's obvious that this needs to be changed. The rules on total punishment, the total judgment, the rules on speeding up proceedings... Citizens complain about these changes! We need to reduce the cognition, we need to simplify the procedure... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir! We need to limit the absurd rules on the reading of files, we need to allow the victims to prosecute more quickly in court, make amends... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And such changes are being prepared for us, and I say it proudly. I'm working on them. And I'm sure we'll talk about it. [[Question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u230	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask. I asked a question about specific laws about the National Judicial Council, the system of common courts, the prosecutor's office and the Supreme Court. Are there any ongoing work to restore the former state, in line with the Constitution? Are they still going on or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u231	If you'd care to refer...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u232	There's no work going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u233	You're asking Senator Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u234	Minister, I would like to ask you to take us seriously and give us serious answers. All the time. I'll tell you about it in my speech. You are cynically misleading us, for example, by showing that the problem of the first Supreme Court President is not in this law. Well, you're missing the truth, to say the least. I mean, it's art. 2 (2) Point 1 (4) clearly speaks of the first president of the Supreme Court, and you say that this is not in the bill... [[But the senator's question is...]] Why are you so misleading? [[Question.]] At many moments, you mislead us. Why are you misleading me when you say that regulation regarding judges of the general court is similar to regulation of judges of the Supreme Court? It's not similar, because when it comes to the Supreme Court, there's no way. In this law, This extension that over 65 years old... And in a court of law, that's a possibility. [[Minister, please.]] And one last question. [[More?]] Why... Because you're cynical about the bill. We all know it comes from the bill. We're talking about the principles of rational legislation. If the Supreme Court has so far been so that the judge may be a judge of the Supreme Court longer, which is quite obvious... In the world it is, in the Court of the European Union it is. There are people around the age of 80 or older. Then why do you support such a solution so that the judge can work until the age of 70 in the district court and the judge in the Supreme Court until the age of 65? According to the new presentation...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u235	Before the Minister answers, I will ask the senator to refrain from the invective during the questions. It doesn't work in this room either during the discussion... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[He's misleading...]] ...in our guest's address. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know what I'm saying. And the senator knows what we're talking about. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u236	The question was whether the judge who retired could act as the first president. We debated this question here more than a year ago, this question was discussed hundreds of times and many times the answer was the one I gave today. The President may not be a judge who has retired. It's very simple. The question was not whether the legislator was regulating the first President. If that were the case, I would say that of course yes, it regulates in the article. 2 (2) 1. And his term of office is considered permanent. And the second question... Sorry, I forgot what the senator's second question was. [[Voice from the room: This one more time...]] What is the second question? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Dismissed term...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...the age limit of the Supreme Court judges is the same as in the general court, because it is different. And this despite the fact that the Supreme Court always had a higher age than in lower instances.]] When it comes to the age of judges in the Supreme Court who had a certain age of 70 with an extension of 72 years, we are restoring it. As for the judges who entered the Supreme Court under last year's laws, it will be the age of 70, as it was before. And when it comes to future judges, it's going to be 65 years and... [[Voice from the room: That's what this is all about right now.]] So, to answer the senator's question, I'd like to say that the judges who are to the Supreme Court... [[Senator Piotr Zientarski:...This results from the order.)]] [[But the Minister will answer, and that's it.]] The order of the Court, Senator, does not concern the issue of future judges who will come to the Supreme Court in a month's time, in a year's time, in two years' time. It doesn't concern them at all. This provision of the Court of Justice of the European Union applies only to three laws and judges who are already in the Supreme Court and not to future judges, which is beyond our discussion today. [[Voice from the room: But we will ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u237	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will quickly quote: In Spain, the judges are elected by the General Council of the Judicial Authority, whose chairman is the President of the Supreme Court. The other 20 members of this Council are appointed by Parliament As the Minister said, by a majority of 60% But only among experienced judges and lawyers recommended by the Election Commission, acting at the Supreme Court. This Election Commission is an independent judicial body... etc. In Holland, on the other hand, etc... And now my question is to you, since you've told me what it's like in other countries. I'm asking you a question because you introduced yourself as a scientist and a lawyer. Are you a scientist and a lawyer? This is not an invective, Mr. Minister and Mr. Marshal. Do you, as a legal and scientific person, see the difference between your selection system for the Supreme Court and the KRS and the system in other countries, for example, in Spain that I have read about? Do you think it's the same thing? All you have to do is distinguish between either not or not, or it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u239	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u240	The procedure for appointing judges to the Spanish National Judicial Council and the procedure in our resolution are identically similar... [[Voice from the room: Oh, please!]] ...or environment, I stress... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...environment reports candidates... [[Voice from the room: 25...]] Whether you're a senator or a representative of a ruling party or any other party, maybe... [[But, Mr. Marshal, I've already received an answer.]] ...as if to bring your candidate to the National Judicial Council? [[Let's get this over with.]] He can't. Only colleagues in his environment can report him. [[The Ministry of Justice.]] And that's it. [[Anonymous.]] It's not politicians, it's not parties who report candidates, it's the judges themselves. [[Voice from the room: Anonymous.]] [[Senator Blackbay wants to ask, right?]] [[So I can say in public space that these are identical twin systems?]] Yes, sir. [[Boyfriend...]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u241	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u242	Minister, these are questions from my constituents, I promised I'd ask them. The first question refers to Senator Rusiecki's question, which he warned me about. Namely art. 2 points 6 and 7 and point 7 already stresses very strongly that the issue of reimbursement of benefits received by judges will be dealt with by means of a regulation. Am I to understand that the draft regulation is not yet in force and is already mentioned in the Act? However, if a regulation is being prepared, I cannot imagine that the Ministry of Justice has no knowledge of the scale of these benefits received. In a completely non-binding form... I certainly don't have that kind of knowledge, but there are opinions about unimaginable sums, much, much bigger than e.g. the sum of the awards given by Mrs Beata Szydło to the ministers who returned them in connection with this decision. Is it imaginable as an execution of benefits that are probably much, much larger? And like this execution... [[Mr. Senator, questions.]] Did you see that? On the basis of a regulation that I think should be? Is it, or is it not yet? That's the first question. And the other. Namely, to my knowledge at least, the Court of Justice of the European Union had no right de facto to engage in our internal affairs concerning the processed... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[This is the senator!]] ...Procedated here a bill. The question is therefore: who do you think is more responsible for this opening of the door that has been made and which can continue to be used? 'Cause once it opens up, I'm afraid... Well, the pendulum can be repeated... [[This is the senator!]] Is it more responsible for a government that... [[Mr. Senator, it's been too long.]] ...tonight, in your person, is he working with us on this bill, or is it more of an opposition that has launched paths leading to European structures? [[Voice from the hall: Professor, please don't go this way...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u243	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u244	Thank you very much. Yes, the regulation is being prepared, Senator. It will specify the time limit, the way in which these benefits are reimbursed. As for the amount of these benefits, I really don't want to Please understand me, too. Please specify any amounts, such as amounts or others. It would be associated with different consequences later, because it would be said that the sum was such, not so, smaller, bigger. Right? Well, there's really an astronomical amount of money in the media, and I don't remember exactly what it is right now. I think it's best to ask at the source. The Public Information Act is probably the best tool for obtaining such information. As far as the position of the Court of Justice is concerned, that position indeed goes far beyond the existing scope of the case law of the Court of Justice. The Court of Justice goes, as lawyers say, into an unknown area, even using the term "terra incognita." Unfortunately, some ideas are being tested in our country, ideas related to the superstate, the creation of a transnational system in the form of the European Union. This was indeed earlier by the opposition and by various people associated with the opposition of experts, as it were caused. That's for sure. In the public debate we have all seen this, we have seen these pilgrimages to the various bodies of the European Union ..and not only that.. During which sanctions imposed on our country were mentioned, such sanctions were demanded. This is very sad and actually comes to mind as the worst associations of our history. I don't need to talk to your professor as a historian about what kind of association is involved. I repeat: I am saddened and embarrassed by the fact that the representatives of our country, the representatives of the judiciary or any other body, institution, lawyers, experts may demand financial consequences on their own country in a situation where and here I refer to the first part of your question. The treaties do not in any way allow for the control of the law of a sovereign country in the field of justice. That is the question to the Constitutional Tribunal, the request made by the Prosecutor-General. It concerns whether the Polish courts may submit questions for a preliminary ruling in the area of justice. And let me repeat: the German Constitutional Court clearly pointed out in 2009 that there is no way that the justice system of a Member State can be assessed from the perspective of certain EU regulations. So that it is in no way a matter of European Union law to assess national justice reforms. Is this sentence caused by this kind of narrative, harmful to our country? That's what you're gonna answer for yourselves. Unfortunately, these speeches, often disgraceful speeches, I must say this directly... [[Voice from the room: No...]] ...which I have witnessed in international arenas, which urge sanctions on my own country, unfortunately make me sad and embarrassed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u245	You are speaking to Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u246	I heard what the Deputy Minister said, and it appears that the Deputy Minister knows what he's doing, and he knows what he's saying. Minister, tell me this case. You said that the 2002 solution was a legal issue. What can you call 6 successive laws that come out of the ministry and concern the Supreme Court, 6 laws... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...in a situation where the seventh causes you to retreat from the previous six... That's not bullshit. The six previous laws? That's a rhetorical question. Now let me ask you a question that voters are asking, not my constituents, but the voters. What if the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg finds that your regulations were appropriate? What's gonna happen in this state of law? [[They'll be happy.]] [[Another amendment...]] It's not like there was a tribunal ruling. There's only a safety claim. [[Of course. And he says the other way around...]] What's gonna happen? Will you make the ninth amendment? [[Seven o'clock.]] Eight, yeah, eight, but it'll be nine. [[The Vice Minister said he was going to go...]] [[Don't bother the marshal.]] Could this be the case from a legal point of view?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u247	Mr. Marshal's done, isn't he? [[Yes.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u248	Thank you very much. In answer to this question, I will immediately warn any further questions, because today there was a question to the rapporteur about why this provision does not work directly. Yeah, I was just... [[It's not working.]] If it worked directly, it wouldn't be necessary to change it. [[Of course...]] [[Voice from the room: Why then...]] In other words... [[...is unnecessary.]] This provision does not work directly, there are no direct effects on specific judges. Why? If, uh... this is directly due to the content of this provision, which clearly indicates that the transition to resting has resulted in an effect, the bill has worked. Therefore, we must take such steps that will be justified in the light of the constitutional order in force in Poland [[Voice from the room: It's hard...]] [[Mr. Senator, don't tell me. Let the minister finish. We'll discuss it. We still have plenty of time.]] Then I'll get back to my thoughts. [[Please.]] This provision requires legal changes. Why? Because otherwise, if such amendments had not been made, and this is a provisional provision, the name itself indicates: the provisional measures This provision shall expire at the time of the judgment of the Court. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And now let's imagine the situation that you're suggesting that these judges are directly returning to their previous functions. The order shall expire, the judgment shall render it ineffective and all judgments given by those Judges shall be invalid or subject to an absolute appeal. That would be the consequence. This provision is temporary and a legal change is therefore necessary and necessary. It is introduced to ensure legal stability in the situation and to enable these judges to return to their previous positions. It's a legal change, nothing else. Any real action would expose us to a legal disaster at the time of the judgment. Such a judgment is an inexhaustible provision. The judgment does not in any way concern the matter described in the order. These things work side by side, independently, these are two decisions. [[Whose opinion is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u249	Mr. Senator, you'll have time to ask that question. [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]] One at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal for some peace, let's relax a little. It's my human appeal. Everyone will have time to ask questions. That's a serious, interesting legal statement, that's what I think. Let's hear it, see what we can find out. Are you finished with the minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[I'm sorry, but...]] Now the question is... [[...the Minister didn't answer.]] ...Senator Zdrojewska. [[But the Minister didn't answer my question.]] Excuse me, just a minute. [[The Minister didn't answer my question.]] Please clarify.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u250	I asked what would happen if the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg gave its judgment and he was different from that law. [[The judges will come home.]] Yeah, I get it. Are you, Minister... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Those ministers who took...]] ...does he think the sentence will no longer refer to this issue? Are you sure about this? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't hear your marshal's question. Please refrain from commenting. [[I'm done.]] Well, let's let the marshal tell you, 'cause this is important. I think this is a very important question. Minister, you're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you...]] [[Because it's a temporary arrangement.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes.]] Yeah, I get it. [[There was no verdict.]] Mr. Minister, I think you're... [[I understand, but I'm saying it again to get an answer.]] The Minister will answer now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u252	We'll talk when there's a verdict. [[Oh, that's right.]] The statement that the sentence will be different from that provision means everything and nothing. [[What do you mean, all of it?]] To what extent will he be different? What else will it involve? It is to be said that every sentence is crazy important in them and in the operative part and in the justification. This provision raises a number of important issues, including: That you have to make the right changes in the law. What's the verdict gonna be about? How will it be formulated? What's he gonna wear? This right now is fuss reading, multiplication of hypotheses. There'll be a verdict, we'll talk. [[Thank you.]] Now it's absolutely premature.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u253	Now, Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u254	I will actually ask a question similar to the one asked by Marshal Borusewicz. I mean the second question that Marshal Borusewicz asked rhetorically, Minister. I would like you to think about it for a moment and not address us directly to the senators, but explain it to the citizens. How would you explain this to those people who are the recipients of the law, the recipients of what's going on here, what are we discussing here? They're watching. They're not professionals, they're not people who make up the law. What would you say to those citizens who have the right to expect from the state, from the government, from the Ministry of Justice certain stability of the system, certain competences, some intellectual discipline in the creation of the law? If on such short notice... Today we will take the seventh decision to amend one law. What would you say to the citizens? Don't you think they deserve the word'sorry'? Don't you think there's something bad going on and there's something wrong with the Ministry of Justice? Isn't it the Ministry of Justice's responsibility that we change the law so often? Once again, the citizen has the right to the stability of the law and to the stability of the state. Don't be ridiculous, don't be court-martialed, just think about how a citizen is supposed to take it all. Tonight, at the very end, you're making a bill that is completely contrary to those... [[Senator, there was a question.]] ...and yet you say you disagree with her. [[Then tell me if there will be any further questions. Because you can ask three at a time.]] No, it's gonna be one thing... [[The only one.]] ...the only question. [[Well, I guess it's already been done.]] And yet you're giving us a bill that you're saying you disagree with. This is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u255	That's an assessment, not a question, Senator. Let's let the answer be. There you go. [[May I ask, isn't this a joke?]] [[Is this a joke?]] But there was no question. [[Is this a joke?]] [[Is this a joke?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u256	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm gonna say. The changes you're asking about here all the time... Let's go back to them and read what they were talking about. These changes concerned a dialogue with the European Commission, a dialogue aimed at a specific resolution. We have the right to reform our justice system. We also have the right to expect the European Commission to respect our sovereign decision. But that did not happen. The European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has been playing dirty cards from the very beginning. These 7 changes, which you mention and you mention, have been addressed in the vast majority of the many compromise solutions to meet the expectations of European Commission officials who questioned our country's right to reform the justice system. That's what they were about. Yes? [[No one questioned that. That's a lie.]] On our part, there were good intentions, there was a desire for dialogue... [[When?]] ...there was a desire to talk, but unfortunately each time we met with deception and messages which in no way met any previous assurances, arrangements, expectations. All these solutions served the dialogue. The European Commission, seeing that it will not be supported by the countries of the Council of the European Union, has suddenly changed the front, has started action before the Court of Justice of the European Union and has used the Court to gain support for itself. That's all. If the senator asks me to speak to the citizens, then I can say that citizens receive a justice system that works smoothly and quickly. Look at the reform of the D.A.'s office. Today someone was expecting me to withdraw from the D.A.'s reform. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. The prosecution closed almost a million cases last year. That's 20%. more than before our reform, and the reform is from 2016. Up to 20% More. And that's where the same prosecutors are. [[And the courts?]] Over PLN 2 billion 500 million have been recovered, among others. in the context of an extended confiscation, for which the High House has voted. Thank you for that. In 2017 there were more than PLN 40 billion of VAT revenues to our budget, after the governments led us to have a huge VAT gap. [[It's not about that. It's in this bill?]] Let me remind you: at the end of 2015 it was over PLN 40 billion. How do they know that? From the Supreme Auditorium report. World record. From 19 billion in 2011 to over 40 billion PLN at the end of 2015. [[Get to the point.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] A good change is precisely these changes: 25 years for VAT, expanded confiscation, efficient, fast processes... [[Minister! Ladies and gentlemen!]] ...a million completed investigations last year. It's a good change. [[You're talking about the D.A.'s office, not the courts.]] [[It's not about that. It's about the D.A.'s office, not the courts.]] That's what I have today to tell our citizens. [[Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Let's let the Minister answer.]] They have the right to expect efficient, good courts and quick prosecution of criminals. And that's what they get. [[You're talking about the D.A.'s office...]] [[You've made a mistake.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u257	I'm sorry. The Minister's done. Let the temperature of our emotions drop a little bit. Now the question will be asked by Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u258	I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that you are mistaken for court, but that is by the way. It is not true that the European Union or anyone disputes Poland's right to reform the judiciary. That's slander. I'd like to ask you something else about this bill. Namely, Minister, you realise that the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Court concerned not only those issues which are now covered by safeguards, these three issues, but also the National Courts Council. My question is: why aren't you proposing changes that would also regulate this issue? Do you really want to confront the Court with all this concerted attitude in this matter? Or is it like this? That's what I asked you before. That this is why the amendments to the article were made. 4 to force the Supreme Court to withdraw this part of the preliminary question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u259	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u260	If you're asking me, I'll answer again. Courts in the context of preliminary questions have no right to ask about the justice system. And that's it. And I would like to refer to the German Constitutional Court's judgment. [[But we all know that.]] And this provision is not just about the National Judicial Council. And here the answer is very simple. This provision concerns only three points that we are talking about here. And we are implementing the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u261	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. [[But you didn't answer, Mr. Marshal, that wasn't the answer to my question.]] The answer was what it was. The senator can say it again if you want. [[You're still missing the questions.]] Does the Minister have anything to say to the senator's question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u262	The question was about the article. 4. About the art. 4, these cases are dealt with because they are unobtrusive. But there's absolutely nothing here from my point of view... Unless the senator knows there's a connection to the questions for a preliminary ruling. I don't see that connection. If you can see the senator, I would ask you to extend that justification. I don't see that connection. And I don't know. I repeat what I said earlier, which specific procedures, from the signature, may be remitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u263	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u264	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, the provisional order was issued by the Vice-President of the Court on 19 October, the day before the start of the election silence. And after the election, after the first round, the president The Court was pleased to state that a country not taking decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union is in a process similar to Brexit. Let me remind you that we were scared of polexit during the election campaign. Do you think these two facts 'Cause these are facts. This temporary coincidence is an attempt to influence the political situation in Poland by the leading representatives of the Court? In such a case, how should the question of impartiality of the Court be treated? And second question, second question. In its letter to the Court, the European Commission refers to Article. 47 Charters of Fundamental Rights. Tell me: does he have that right? I mean, the law always does, but does it make sense in terms of the British protocol that we signed in connection with the Charter of Fundamental Rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u265	Is the senator finished? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u266	Thank you very much. The UK Protocol does indeed exclude the use of the Charter in this area That's the answer to question two. And the first one... The case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe, has repeatedly stated that the judge who speaks on the matter under consideration is excluded from such a case. This is a fundamental guarantee of the principle of impartiality, the principle of objectivity, which assumes both impartiality towards the parties, a lack of prejudice against the parties, and a lack of directional bias towards the subject matter. We have heard the statement of the President of the Court quoted by the senator, who said that he should say the most visually, politically. He expressed a political position, prejudicing certain decisions in the future, speculating on the future, discussing issues that are completely inappropriate, i.e. the question of some polexit or various other political phenomena which are not appropriate to be judged by the power of his authority. The judge should keep his distance from the case being heard and his distance from the parties themselves. That's the role of the judge. However, such an interview, which, moreover, was outrageous by European lawyers, as we have learned from the media, can indeed give rise to suspicion of bias. It may cause, I repeat, suspicions of bias in connection with the subject matter of the case under consideration. In me, it brings up the sadness of this kind of position, this kind of taking up a position even before the verdict. As for the temporal coincidence... Well, actually, it's a big one, I'd say, by coincidence, the fact that on the eve of the election this kind of decision is going down. So, unfortunately, we are dealing with a number of things that cause sadness, which may give rise to suspicion of bad will. However, as I said earlier, we are not discussing such provisions and, in order to respect European Union law, we are forced to implement it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u267	You're asking Senator Dobrzyński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u268	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, from your statements and from these questions... I'm sure it's clear to all of us. Even for the opposition The fact that this provision is purely political, because the treaties, various types of provisions in the agreements, do not allow interference in the reform of the justice system in the countries concerned, including, of course, in Poland. The fact that this is how some of our country's politicians behave, of course, can be tried to understand, while the scandalous behavior of some of our judges is: these trips abroad are rebellion, instigation. It is known that this also had an impact on and on the time limit, and such a form of decision by the Court of Justice of the Union. I understand we're creating a precedent. Minister, don't you think that compliance with this provision is dangerous for our country because the Court of Justice can claim more and more rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u269	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u270	Thank you. I don't share that opinion, Senator. Adherence to this provision is an expression of respect and respect for European Union law and for the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[But it's lawless.]] We are in the family of the countries of the European Union. We are the government of the European Union, and therefore we are forced to respect it, despite all the legal and non-legal reservations that the senator mentioned here and the whole context of this provision. And that is the essence of the problem to make such a decision, even if we disagree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u271	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm a little over it, but, Minister, if you'll excuse me, you're not exactly hovering, because this response from you... Well, unfortunately, that statement was really... Talking about shame... [[What do you do all the time?]] ...that they drive, encourage, etc., etc., it just doesn't fit. This is a testimony and confirmation... [[But this is a statement...]] ...he'd rather do polexit. [[Mrs. Senator...]] You confirm my conviction. [[...this is a statement for discussion. Ask me a question.]] My question... There should be attention. Because... [[It's always in the discussion you can report.]] ...what does it mean to be intimidating? [[Your behavior.]] You can't judge that. [[Please.]] Here's my question. You have talked about this, and we know that this bill has been drafted by Members. Who gave you the right to judge parliamentarians by talking about this disgrace and that you disagreed with it? Let me remind you that the bill has been drafted by Members of the PiS. Will you please answer us, or do you agree with this bill? Do you support her on behalf of the government? Are you absolutely telling us right now what you've told us that she's constitutionally compatible, but you're proposing solutions that are not in line with your opinion, which is the government, which is conflicting...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u273	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like an explanation, because I don't really understand. Do I agree with the bill? Of course I agree with this bill, which is why I'm standing here in front of you. I fully support this bill. [[But you say she's incompatible, that your solution was constitutional...]] [[You have to listen to what the Minister says.]] [[But he doesn't agree with the Court.]] [[Well, that's not true.]] [[He's for it, and he's against it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to discuss. Let the Minister answer. Do you want to say more? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[God, you see and you don't thunder?]] Is there anything else the Minister wants to say in answer to this question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u276	I fully support this bill and I ask the High Senate to vote for it. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u277	But no more questions, ladies and gentlemen. The question is, Senator Rulewski, it's written down. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u278	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to continue with the thread that Senator Augustine has taken, but has not received an answer. As you know, the proposal to the EU ETS was presented by the European Union, perhaps by the European Commission, yes? As I know, he contained a wider... Not the application to the TSUE, but the procedure towards Poland is wider than the application to the TSUE and among others. includes, as Senator Augustine, also the National Judicial Council, perhaps other problems, only I forgot. And the question is, Minister, to you, what will happen? Will the adoption of this law result in the withdrawal of the European Union's proposal from the EU's TSUE, or do you believe that this will not end the case and will continue the proceedings before the European Union in matters other than the Supreme Court case?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u279	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u280	Thank you very much. I'm answering. Thank you very much for that question, Senator. I am happy for him because, finally, a specific question about what we do, but I can always count on your senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply saying that this provision concerns only what is in the complaint and what is in the complaint is closely related to that provision. Procedure concerning Article 258 at neither point nor iota is wider than what is in this provision, which is apparent directly from the substance of the provision itself. Allow me to quote point 3: these requests have been presented in the context of an infringement complaint under Article. 258 TFEU, lodged by the Commission on 2 October 2018 and seeking to establish, firstly, that by reducing the retirement age of judges of the Supreme Court and applying it to judges appointed to the Supreme Court before 3 April 2018, and by granting the President of the Republic of Poland a discretionary right to extend the active service of judges of that Supreme Court, the Republic of Poland has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second paragraph of the TEU. And that's just what the complaint is about. Nothing else. [[But, excuse me, you haven't answered the fundamental question of whether this will end the dispute.]] Yes, sir. He's ending the argument. [[And procedures with the European Union...]] [[The Commission.]] [[...not with the European Commission...]] That's right, he's ending the dispute with the European Commission. [[...in all matters relating to the judiciary and the rule of law, including the National Courts?]] Mr Senator, you asked whether the decision we are implementing today completely exhausts the Commission's complaint. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] I answer: yes, it fully exhausts the Commission's complaint. [[No.]] And this bill... [[Oh, no.]] ...is the answer to this decision. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u281	Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Senator Rulewski will be fine on his own and he'll tell you what he really wants, and the Minister will answer. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There you go... [[What do you mean? Didn't I tell you?]] If you want to clarify, go ahead. Because if... [[I'm asking you one more time...]] [[Turn on the mike.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u282	Minister, we know that there is a dispute between Poland and the European Commission about compliance with the rule of law in Poland and it covers not only the Supreme Court, but among others. National Judicial Council. We understand that the dispute which the Commission brought before the Court, the TSUE, was only about the judiciary, but remains open the case of the National Judicial Council and perhaps others... And my question is precisely whether this law is already exhausting this dispute with the European Commission, or whether proceedings and procedures against Poland will continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u283	Now please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u284	The provision that this law is implementing is a provision that we have before us here and which we are analyzing. [[I know that. I know.]] As regards the matter of the dispute concerning Article. 258, that is entirely exhausted in that provision and in that law, which fully implements that provision. And the questions about some other stuff that's going on... There are, of course, questions for a preliminary ruling... [[KRS.]] There are questions for a preliminary ruling. There is now a matter in the Council of the European Union that concerns... This is a political process, I stress: political. This is not a legal process, but a political process. The Court of Justice of the European Union is not involved in this process. [[That's what we know.]] But I can tell you. I have such unofficial information because I have visited several countries of the Council of the European Union The fact that many representatives of the departments of justice in these countries actually wiped their eyes out of wonder when they heard about the real changes we've made, because... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...media has sometimes misled public opinion. And all of a sudden, they said that there was nothing else in them... [[Or they were trying to mislead you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...than what's in our house. Example: Spain. There's nothing out there but what's in our house. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore, I answer the senator's question... [[Senator Jan Rulewski: I'm going to Spain.)]] ...the political processes, not the legal processes that are going on, are completely different from those that we are discussing here today. This draft law ends the dispute with the Commission, the main legal dispute at the moment before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u285	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! But I'll change the question. I'm not going beyond what you said today from that bleacher and beyond the bill. So that I don't move new threads. I'm changing two questions about your speech, which is... Because I'm fighting for independence... [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] ...with what's going on, I don't want to say that it's not true, but some of the misunderstandings that have been thrown into public space. And now you're talking about Spain again, about the twin systems. I'll read it to you because I read what they do in Spain. Twinity means equal, identical, made up of two identical parts. Twinity is synonymous with analogy. So I understand that, as a scientist, you say that Spanish and Polish systems are similar? Yes or no? Yes? Yes. Okay. Thank you. And second question. [[Twins.]] No, because maybe twins are... You know, it doesn't ring a bell, and the analogy's better. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now you've said the Minister a little bit before that, a little excited... But it's fun when people get excited in the bleachers, and I always admired those early secretaries how excited they were. On May 1st... So I want to say yes. Minister, tell me, the 40 billion VAT sealing you've been gracious to say is in what time period?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u288	Thank you for that question. That's a very good question. In 2017, compared to 2016. [[Oh, good.]] And going back to the Spanish solutions, I'm going to say absolutely yes. System in which the Sejm is called In the case of Spain, Cortesa invoking 20 out of 21 members of the National Judicial Council... They are designated by the legal community. In our country they are also designated by legal environments and only by them. No party may report its representative as Judge to the National Judicial Board. [[Voices from the hall: How not? What if it isn't?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Only the legal community reports the judges... [[Ladies and gentlemen, we're jamming, jamming...]] Only legal environments report judges of members of the National Judicial Council - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. This is a system similar to that in Spain. Note, too, that most choices are made So 3/5 is the same thing. So it's not just the application system, it's not just the decision system, it's who chooses, it's also the majority that chooses. 3/5. Exactly, you can say, we've rewritten the Spanish solutions. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u289	Wait a minute. Senator Czarnobaj still has a voice. Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u290	Minister, I'd just like to, if you don't mind me asking questions later, if you'll allow me to inform you... Because certain understatements in public space are very dangerous. I will read you the report of the Ministry of Finance on VAT sealing: in 2016 and 2017, during these 2 years, VAT increased by PLN 33.7 billion, of which it is at 17.4 billion. And I think it's a success because every seal... [[But it's not 40 billion...]] Sealing by 17 billion in 2 years is really a very good success. But since, as the Senator rapporteur recently said, the Platform has started this fuss with the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and that is why there is such an effect, I would like to say that VAT sealing has started the Platform and now there is such a fuss with this sealing. I would also like to say that the government anticipates that, Minister, I say this so that you know when you talk about it publicly, as a scientist, I would like to give it to... Well, the government plans that in 2018 there will be 10.6 billion of them, and in 2019 there will be 5.9. And I think it's... [[That'll give you 40...]] And that's about 40 billion. This is a huge success, Mr... [[But that's not about it, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But there's no question about it.]] The question is: does the Minister know that? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: Now yes! He already knows!]] And is that how they save in Spain? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, Minister... I'll verify it at the committee meeting and send you a letter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u291	Is the senator finished? [[Yes.]] Is there something the Minister wants to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u292	I don't think there's anything to comment on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u293	Thank you. You're asking Senator Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u294	Minister, I understand that the Minister, the Attorney General, and you have your opinion today, as to how this is the only way to comply with the safeguard provision resulting from this provision, but you do not agree with it. Therefore, do they exist because it interests me very much Opinions, opinions of law professors dealing with European Union law, as well as constitutionalists who would assess... Because we speak here, among other things. the first President of the Supreme Court whose term, in accordance with the Constitution, has never been interrupted. She's never been constitutionally interrupted. Are there any opinions? In addition to the opinions of authorities such as yours and the minister who here ex cathedra are... Are there any other opinions? Because I, as I believe and present, absolutely disagree with your assertions. I have spoken to many constitutionalists and experts of EU law, and they have a completely different opinion. Therefore, I ask: in such a serious case, the precedent consent, consent to this still wrong, negatively judged by the government... Why, then, the government? 'Cause I'm not talking about MPs anymore. Didn't he send an expert opinion on EU law or constitutional law? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u295	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u296	Thank you. You will remember that here, we have discussed this many times, and we have also talked about these solutions. Of course, I repeat, these solutions are in line with the constitution, needed and many experts supported these solutions... [[Like what?]] And the discussion in the scientific community is going on, that's it. It's a good thing and it's desirable. There are opinions for and opinions against each law. [[I'm asking for those opinions.]] It's natural. [[I'm asking you these opinions, which is... because we'd like to know.]] In the case of the laws that I praised just now... in the case of the law on the 25-year penalty as regards VAT, do you know how many negative opinions there were? And you know how many there were in the so-called law. You're confiscating an extended one? They were almost negative. But the practice lied to these experts, of course, because it is not the experts who change the law in Poland or even the most outstanding professors, but the state, the sovereign... [[That's it.]] ...sovereign representatives, you're changing the law. A little more confidence in yourself and, you can say, appreciate your own role. You are the representatives of the democratically elected... [[But you don't have to tell us what role we're playing, because we know it.]] ...not experts, professors like you or others. There are hundreds of different opinions on every bill. As I say, there have been many negative opinions regarding our criminal law laws. With regard to the Alimony Act, which has also been a great success, because it is... [[I'm asking you...]] [[Wait a minute. You're gonna ask me a question.]] ... 100% there was also a lot of negative opinions about child support to the maintenance fund than it was early. For every bill, this discussion is quite natural and there is nothing wrong with it. But should one of the ten opinions be followed? [[Yes.]] This is a legislative decision, free and sovereign. There's always a lot of opinion, because there's so many people, so many opinions. [[Mr. Marshal, isn't that a ridiculous answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u297	Mr. Senator, you have the right to ask if you're unhappy. There you go. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I understand that actually praxis, the theory didn't cause you to change the seventh law on the Supreme Court for the seventh time and to withdraw from what you've done before. [[Voice from the room: What caused it?]] Praxis. Because you compare and believe that the system concerning KRS in Poland at the moment is the same as in Spain... [[Twins.]] ...the twins... [[Voice from the room: That's nonsense.]] I don't think you're taking into account a certain practice, a practice that differentiates it. Don't you think that a comparison and a statement that this is a twin system is the same as saying that a chair and an electric chair are the same... [[The twins are here.]] The twins? Both have the same name, etc., but they have different functions. [[The higher and higher flights... you're about to break that ceiling.]] Don't you think so?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u299	Mr. Marshal is done, isn't he? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u300	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Let me take this question as a substantive question, because I have already answered the point, and this is only a certain position of the senator and I think we will remain in our positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u301	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voices from the room: No.]] If there isn't, thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, President of the Supreme Court, is taking part in the sitting. [[Applause]] Does the president want to take the floor on this? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me. In the invitation there was my function of the First President of the Supreme Court, although this law was not yet published by the Sejm. I'm grateful for that, but I find... [[Applause]] ...that this status of mine has continued invariably since my appointment as the first president of the Supreme Court, because... abstracting from the Constitution, since I have a 6-year term guaranteed in the Constitution and was not allowed to change the ordinary legislature during my term of office of retirement, to reduce to 65 years... I was 66 last night, so I'm already fired... [[Applause]] [[Best wishes.]] You weren't allowed to change that age. I would therefore like to say that neither I nor any other Supreme Court judge have received a decision from the President to move to a resting state with the countersignal of the Prime Minister, and this was necessary to put out our service. Now, back to this bill... Of course, I cannot say that I oppose it because it would be an exaggeration, but I would like to present to the High House certain shortcomings of this law, which I believe exist. Very briefly, because I know you're tired. In our view, this law at this stage of the trial of the European court is unnecessary, because the safeguard is sufficient to stop the execution of this, suppose, or defective act. Security is something normal in the process, you can secure various things, alimony, but also the application of certain standards. And that was enough to get me and the president of the NSA to ask the judges or call the judges to inform the judges that they could return to their duties. And that's what happened. It was easy to wait for the final judgment of the Court in Luxembourg to see what the case really was. Another issue that upsets the judge's environment is the rapid pace of proceeding on this matter. We've gotten used to this kind of procession, but I wish we didn't get used to it forever, because it's not normal for the bill to pass in 3.5 hours in the Seym and for the next day here in the Senate... She needs some reflection, you should need some reflection here. Suppose that was the need for a moment. I strongly condemn the proposal that judges who are at rest or who are able to declare that they will be at rest get 100% your salary. It's an immoral proposition, so I'd say gently. I also believe that Article. 4 a little bit comes in because it talks about the dismissal of proceedings in the jurisdiction of the judiciary and indicates that the executive authority does not see the difference, does not see the impropriety of entering the powers of the judicial authority. Either way, the court will still have to decide to drop the case. But he could have done it himself, considering it. In a word, we believe that this is not absolutely necessary, but because it has permanent solutions, it eliminates the most serious reservations expressed by the Supreme Court regarding the solutions in this Law on the Supreme Court. I am only very sorry that so much time had to pass, and so much discussion and negative emotions had to be expressed, in a situation where this law could be implemented immediately, after the first opinion of the Supreme Court, indicating that the intertemporal rules should regulate the situation of the judges who are ruling at that moment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u303	Thank you very much, Madam President. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's query to the first President of the Supreme Court relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u304	Madam President, in these preliminary questions, did you also question the functioning, impartiality of the current KRS and whether the wording of the article. 4 will actually force you to withdraw from this part of your questions to the tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u305	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u306	These questions for a preliminary ruling have been asked by the warehouses, not by us as the Supreme Court. In the background they had the KRS, the correctness of the appointment of the KRS and probably disciplinary proceedings. Except they've already been asked, they're already in court, so we're gonna eventually just cancel the proceedings in these cases, and what's gonna happen next with these questions for a preliminary ruling, I don't know. Anyway, I can give you that answer for today, because it's a pretty difficult interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u307	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u308	Madam President, I'd like to ask you a question. It may amuse colleagues or opposition colleagues again, but I would like to ask for a very serious answer. I take this question very seriously. You are convinced and expressed this repeatedly, and verbally, and through actions that the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, which shortened the term of office of the first President, is unconstitutional. My question is: why, if the President had such conviction, did you not take advantage of the possibility, or, in fact, of the obligation imposed on the institutions of the Polish state by the Constitution, to refer it to the Constitutional Tribunal at a time when someone found the bill to be incompatible with the Constitution? There is a list of those who have the possibility and, in some cases, an obligation. Why didn't the professor take advantage of this opportunity and fulfill her duty in my opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u309	I don't think there's an obligation to ask questions to the Constitutional Court. I didn't ask that question because I thought the answer was obvious. I have no confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal in this composition. I didn't ask him either. I'm very sorry to have to say this, but you wanted a serious answer, Senator. I believe that this law on the Supreme Court, because it reduced the age of judges, did not concern me at all, because my status as the first President of the Supreme Court is governed by the Constitution. It was a basic thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u310	Mr. Senator Klich. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Ah, yet, Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u311	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much for your perseverance and consistency, to express your respect for your attitude and to express your satisfaction that, apart from the fact that you are a professor, from yesterday or the day before yesterday, you also began to be the first president of the Supreme Court... [[Voice from the room: It was all the time.]] But it came out of the mouth of those who currently hold power in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] That's what I'm talking about. The Act, which is now being amended, introduced two new chambers to the Supreme Court: the Extraordinary Control Chamber and the Disciplinar Chamber. And the President, as the first President of the Supreme Court, will be in charge of a substantially changed Supreme Court. How do you consider the possibility of the Supreme Court to function with those 2 chambers which have been established and will not be amended by this Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u312	The Disciplinary Chamber is like a court of law. I don't have much force for this chamber. We just need to make an exact arrangement on organisational and financial matters, because the law is very imprecise in this respect. It is supposed to give separation and financial separation to the Disciplinary Chamber, but, on the other hand, the Public Finance Act takes away this distinction because there can only be one public finance manager. So we have to settle down. And we're doing our best to sort it all out. The Extraordinary Control Chamber is, let's call it, in quotes, the normal Supreme Court Chamber. And she'll function just like the other chambers at the moment. The problem for the Supreme Court is that we don't have rooms for these chambers. I was convinced that these rooms would be secured by the government and that under decent conditions these chambers and all the judges would be able to function. And that's an additional 36 judges, 36 assistants, luckily they're not all here yet. and the entire organizational and personal office of the Disciplinary Chamber. So this is a lot of people who don't have a place to put them. We're pressing ourselves, but we're trying to figure it out. So I guess we're gonna have to rent some buildings in town. And that's the problem, which also prevents good functioning and some good relationship between all these judges, because it's starting to get very unbearable, just like one sitting on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u313	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u314	It is good that I can just continue with Mr Klich's thread. I'm the only one who disagrees. He thanked you for what you've already done, and I wish you well for what's going to happen. And that's what the question is, so simple, so human, I'm sorry about that. Are you going to find yourself in this new situation where this court has been slashed on various sides with barriers to distrust, agents' influence, some macks of the Minister of Justice... You're talking here, Madam President, about the financial matter. What do you want from the Senate to help you get back to normal? [[Voice from the room: Rulewski for president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u315	Mr. Senator, those challenges I faced a year and a half earlier weren't expected by me either. I was a normal professor who wanted to be the first president. It's a very honorable function. And work quietly. Well, life decided differently. I got by there somehow. I'm from a long-lived family, my grandmother lived 101 years, so I can do it healthyly too. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, there is no doubt... [[Voice from the room: Applause!]] [[Voice from the hall: And my mom...]] [[Voice from the hall: Worse for you.]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll wait.]] ...definitely these difficulties with rooms, apartments... They're, I'd say, unnecessary. It seemed to me that the designers who wanted to set up these chambers should take care of this. It is difficult to say that the Supreme Court is to take care of this before the law enters into force. Yeah, but we're gonna make it. [[Don't you need help?]] Not yet, but that doesn't mean it won't be necessary. It's still working for now, but... I've got to say right now. In the 2018 report, it will not be fun.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u316	Mr. Marshal, half a question, if you don't mind. What's the current status of the court in relation to... [[That was the whole question.]] Half. [[All of it.]] [[Room voice: 3/4.]] [[Knowing the senator, I'll say a quarter.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u317	No, no... Supreme Court judges? [[Yes.]] There is not enough 4 in the Disciplinary Chamber, i.e. 16 in the Disciplinary Chamber, and 1 in the Audit Chamber is not enough, 19 in the Disciplinary Chamber. Fifty more... I don't remember exactly. [[Senator Żaryn...]] But there's no... I'm so sorry I'm gonna have to do this again. Journalists keep asking if there's any doubles. Well, we don't have a double at all. And there's no such supertat. [[I understand it's okay now. Yes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u318	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u319	Dear Judge, you asked me to say: I have no confidence in this composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. I understand that you also assume that some may not trust you and some of the judges. That's why I'm asking. I ask for a clear answer on behalf of myself and those judges. If this amendment enters into force, you will comply with the rule in paragraph 1. Article 7 2 and in accordance with the Regulation will they reimburse the benefits received?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u320	I can only speak for myself: I didn't collect any benefits, so I don't have to return anything. Even before this law came into force, asking the judges to return, I prepared such an agreement to settle this matter. Because it was obvious to us. There are six-month briefings here, which each official gets at the end of the job, and possibly, if someone has taken, the anniversary award. I don't know how many people have taken this anniversary award. And we've prepared such an agreement that either they're all giving up Very many judges He's already reporting to me that they want to give it back. Or they'll have it in favor of a future check-in, because they're gonna end up working. And then they'd get laid. I thought you were. I'm a specialist in labour law. That's all right with regard to labour law. It was obvious. Most of them wanted to give it back. This bill introduces a slightly different situation because it gives 7 times this Black Friday and you can choose 100%. I don't know what it's gonna be like right now. I hope the judges don't take advantage of this extraordinary offer. You don't know, but I won't. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, but this promotion...]] Yeah, big one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u321	Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u322	Madam President, two questions. First question: how do you judge We don't have an opinion from the Supreme Court. This is the future solution proposed by this law, according to which the Supreme Court judge retires from the age of sixty-five? We're talking about the future. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: For the future, yes.]] Yes. And second question. What is the situation in the Supreme Court, i.e. how do the judges feel about this differentiation, with this House's award? It's 40 percent over there. more... How is it judged by the judges?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u323	Thank you very much, Senator. Bringing this sixty-five-year-old to the future in the case of judges... Like I always said, it's possible. The legislator has the right to introduce such an age. [[That's what we know.]] But from the state's point of view, It's about using the creative forces of top-qualified lawyers. It seems to me in the 21st century... [[Exactly.]] ...it's a little weird. Well, if that's what you want, we can't say anything from a legal point of view. I would just like to remind you that the age of Poles increased by an average of 7 years. The argument that all Poles concern the retirement age of 65 years is not an option here because they can and do not have to retire. As regards the higher remuneration of those 40% That's what we're looking at as discrimination. [[Voice from the room: Privilege...]] Yes, the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber as those judges of the Supreme Court who have a higher salary of 45%. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Impossible...]] How is that impossible? At the moment, the chairman of one of the departments of the Disciplinary Chamber has a salary higher than the first President of the Supreme Court. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm not talking about the president because there are other configurations... [[No, this is unbelievable.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u324	Calm down, please. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u325	Madam President, I'd like to go back to my previous question and ask you right away. I'll admit I'm not sure I understood the intention, the essence of the answer. I understood that the President said this: because I did not trust the Constitutional Tribunal, I did not address him. I understand, because there's no obligation to go to court. If somebody doesn't trust the courts, then maybe... There's no obligation in any case to speak to the court. Well, I guess that doesn't mean it's okay to give your own judgment and announce it. On the basis of their judgment I pronounce because I do not trust the courts that the judgment is so and so. I understand... Did I get that right, Madam President? If that's what the citizen says, it's still pal six, but if the first president of the Supreme Court says that because of a lack of trust in the courts, you can pronounce a judgment yourself in a case where you don't have constitutional competence, then... I think I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u326	I didn't give any judgment in this case. I behaved in accordance with the Constitution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's clear.]] [[And the constitution is higher than the bill.]] I've interpreted the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u327	Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u328	Madam President, I would also like to refer to this statement by the lady in which you spoke about a lack of trust in the Court. I am a Silesian raised in a culture of respect for the law and observance of the law, and I am very surprised that a lawyer can say such a thing. I have a question. You're a guest in the Senate. Do you have any confidence in the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u329	The Senate has been elected by citizens, it is one or another, but it is elected by citizens. He is a legislative authority and, of course, I have confidence in the Senate in this regard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u330	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Just a quick question. And I would ask for specific answers. You have used the wording in your statement that standards can be secured. I understand that every standard. Please indicate to me when the Court of Justice of the European Union has secured the application of the rule of law in which country and whether, in particular, those standards were related to the judiciary in that country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u332	I'm not gonna point out to the senator. [[Please?]] I won't point. [[Yeah, but why?]] I won't point, because I don't know. [[Oh, you don't know? Wasn't there a case like this?]] I don't know. [[I see. But you said it was okay.]] Because it's theoretically possible, but... [[I see.]] ...there were no examples. 'Cause why would you even reach out to a guy like that... [[The voice from the room: Of course, it's just...]] [[Don't tell me, Senator.]] ...normal? [[Can we move on?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u333	Question two. You claim that the article has absolute value. 183... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Constitution?]] Please? [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Constitution?]] Yeah, yeah, the constitution. ...in the election of the first President of the Supreme Court for a six-year term. Suppose you resigned from your term of office... [[But she didn't quit.]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] But it's not a discussion, it's a question for you. You can speak later. Madam President, let's assume you're resigning from your duties. What about that six-year term? [[What does that have to do with anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u334	Well, if a man resigns, it's obvious that his term of office is shrinking. If he dies, it shortens too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[So it's not ruthless, right?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There are certain...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There are some cases...]] Mr. Senator, these aren't the same lines of reasoning. This is a categorical shift of what you're talking about. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] The legislator can't shorten... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...this term of office by law, as you say, is ordinary because it is a constitutional term of six years. You could've waited six years for this whole fight to go away, 'cause it's only been a year and a half. [[Death is ruthless.]] Well, I'm healthy, unfortunately, but I still have a disability. [[I wasn't suggesting that. I wish you at least 102 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u335	Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u336	Madam President... [[Voices from the room: Madam President.]] Madam President, thank you so much for being here and for being here. Actually, my questions have already been asked, but... [[Thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But, but... [[Applause]] ...they're not that kind of thing. I just want to dispel my doubts. Because if the President is a six-year term guaranteed by the Constitution, then you don't have to go to the Constitutional Court so they can confirm it? [[Finish it, Vast!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: No.]] But that's not my question yet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the question I was gonna ask the Minister, but I don't like to argue with the Minister, so I'm gonna point them in the air, but you're gonna judge, so... I was at the meeting of the European Commission in Brussels, during the meeting with Vice-President Timmermans and the meeting of the Venice Commission, so that I witnessed all this. And I was surprised that in connection with such an important issue for our country and for legislation there was no representative of the Polish government. And now my question is this: Well, he's not really here. Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u337	It's hard for me to comment. Maybe he was afraid to go to Brussels so he wouldn't be suspected of being an informer. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u338	Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[And that's the smart answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u339	I've been... [[Voice from the room: What about me?]] [[Voice from the room: Give him a voice.]] No, I can't decide that. You're the marshal. I mean, it's actually about the same thing all the time: women. Do you think, from the point of view of your practice, that there is a need to differentiate between the retirement age of men and women judges, of course, in all courts? [[Retirement status, not retirement age.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u340	Mr. Senator, there is no such differentiation now in common courts, but there is an opportunity, and the possibility is not discrimination. Discrimination would have been if they hadn't... It was, but it changed. So that there is no discrimination against men and women at the moment, while in the Supreme Court there is discrimination against all judges and judges of the Disciplinary Chamber. It's just as immoral as the proposal to go into these 7 days at 100%. salaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u341	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u342	Madam President, my question Because many times in my life I've done, as the head of the company, reorganization is so... Because I don't understand something. I've always done reorganization from downstairs, and at the end of the day, I've been doing reorganizations at the company in management. That's why I can't understand where the reorganization of the mountain itself comes from today. My question is simple: how much during this period of fighting that takes place, and how much division in our country In fact, in this House, is it clear that we have gained from this reorganisation? How much did we speed up the courtroom? What time volume did we gain? After all, all the wise men and politicians say: after all, we are making a great reorganization. How much did we benefit from it after all these years? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u343	Mr. Senator, I'll repeat what I've said many times before. At the moment, we are not dealing with a reorganization of justice at all, because a substantive reorganisation, which is undoubtedly needed Because procedures need to be accelerated, the cognition of the judiciary needs to be narrowed down, i.e. Many minor cases should go elsewhere to settle, not all of them to court, because this would speed up proceedings, because there is a flood of cases, especially in regional courts, which the courts cannot deal with at all. And from the data shown by the common courts, probably by the ministry, it's probably 30%, but I'm not sure, a slip. The same is true of the Supreme Court. That means there's a very big drop in judgment. In our view, this is not so much due to any actual reorganisation in these three chambers, but to the fact that there are no judges and there are no delegated judges, which the Minister of Justice constantly asks for. So it has nothing to do with reorganization. So far, there are no projects that indicate that there will be this real reorganisation in civil, criminal, cognitive proceedings. It only expands. I don't know yet if this emergency complaint that's being filed... For now, there is one emergency complaint that has come in, but if there are a lot of them, they can cause cases to return to first instance, which is to increase these delays even further. And yet I always say to students: nothing can last forever; one day this process must end; one is always satisfied; the other is dissatisfied. Of course, we have a sieve here, mostly the Minister of Justice, so I hope that these complaints will not be very, very much, but there may be some. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u344	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! I'm gonna cut it short. If the president can answer, I'm asking for an answer, and if he can't, maybe someday. I am referring to the question of comparing these identical models of the functioning of the judiciary in Poland and Spain. [[KRS.]] Yeah, a call to the KRS, but also the whole system. The Minister was talking about the same models. Well, we have the Minister's opinion as a scientist. But I wonder if the professor can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u346	I can't get any closer, but I'm sure I'll write as soon as I know myself. However, as I looked at these models so quickly, I saw that there are actually sometimes models that the national judicial council chooses parliaments. I think that's what it's like in Germany. But there the group from which one chooses is always very selected, these are top-ranking politicians. It's not so much done on the head that someone gave something there, sixteen were, sixteen were chosen. Besides, the National Judicial Council has very serious cases to settle, to protect the judges. I'm sorry to say this. Before the other authorities, it is to demand proper treatment of judges in every dimension, and it cannot be so that it is not chosen from among very qualified judges. And when it comes to Spain, it's certainly not the same. I think we have it in court. We have a section on European law and we will show it all. Of course, the former KRS had all of this very carefully analysed. I'll send it to the senator. I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u347	Senator Warzocha. [[Leszek, so they're twins, but they're not identical.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u348	Dear Professor, we are dealing in Poland with a political discourse, which concerns the Supreme Court, which is being conducted and which is still being carried out reform. This is a political discourse. Let's call it euphemistically. Although he often takes on different, uninteresting faces. And there are 2 different, opposing opinions, there are supporters of the current regulation and its opponents. But let's get back to the basic law, to the article. 180. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Excuse me. But it's the Supreme Court, right?]] We're talking about the Supreme Court. It's a fundamental law, a constitution... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Well, I know, it's a constitution.]] I mean, art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 in which it is written In the event of a change in the system of courts or a change in the boundaries of judicial districts, a judge may be transferred to another court or at rest with full payment. In turn, the article. 183, which is often referred to by the opponents of the current regulation, says in the paragraph. 3) that the first President of the Supreme Court appoints the President of the Republic of Poland for a 6-year term of office from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court. And there's a clear difference. There's an art delegation. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 of the Constitution, and there is this provision in paragraph 1. Article 3 183. Since there are different interpretations, I'd like to ask if the professor could say... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Of course.]] ...what it's all about. What arguments do you believe are in favour of this interpretation of the opponents of the current rules, i.e. not posting these issues to the law? Do you understand what I'm asking?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u349	I understand. I just think we're dealing with some sort of misunderstanding of matter. Art. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 talks about At the moment, in the Supreme Court, the reorganisation was only within the scope of the Military Chamber. And those judges from the Military Chamber who were retiring just got a hundred percent wage, but only up to the age of sixty-five, because that was the rule at the time. In turn, the article. 183 is talking about calling me for a six-year term. And so far no one has said that there's been such a reorganization that I can be sent to a resting state. [[Thank you, but let me ask you this: how about a change of system?]] There was no change in the system of the Supreme Court, no one called for it. And now, when it comes to these 100% , it is also in the explanatory memorandum that no one claims that this is a change in the system of the court and that it is therefore possible to remain at rest with a 100% remuneration. Well, let's call it that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u350	Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, I would like to express my opinion first. You've made such a joke about the Prime Minister here, and I don't think that's appropriate in the Senate. [[What premiere?]] And my question is this. In reply to the questions, you said that you did not refer the law to the Constitutional Court because of a lack of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal. There is no doubt that we have certain responsibilities towards the State, belonging to certain offices and functions. And I am so convinced that the lack of trust cannot be the reason for failing to act as a result of a duty to the State. If you didn't think that law was working, or even suspected that it didn't... then it should be sent to the Constitutional Court. So this is, however, a strain of duty towards the State. I would ask you very much to answer the question as to whether you feel that way about this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u352	If you don't mind, I'll ask you to remind me when I jokingly said something about the premiere. [[Well, about the fact that he didn't go to Brussels or...]] He's not the Prime Minister, he's the Minister of Justice. [[This was about a representative...]] Not a government representative at all, God forbid, oh... But it was still... [[Sure, I'll check the transcript. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. I can't relate right now.]] No, I'm sure it was a government representative... [[Voice from the room: But no problem...]] ...but you can check. The Constitutional Court, according to my judgment, also has doubles, so my trust may be a little strained. In any case, I am not obliged to ask the Constitutional Court, there is no obligation at all, but I am obliged to apply the Constitution. If the constitution told me that I had to stand up for the justice system for six years, and I also swore before God that I would do it, that's a determinant for me. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, however ad vocem, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u353	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u354	Because maybe I shouldn't have introduced this first thread, he may have caused some confusion here. Nevertheless, you said that the direct reason for not referring it to the Court was a lack of trust. At the moment, this interpretation that it was such a conviction and there is no obligation, is a completely different matter. I am using the strict quote that has been uttered in this House in the last two hours. That's why I'd ask you to take a stand on this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u355	I gave you two reasons. The first one is that I don't trust you. Now I add that there are doubles sitting there and I have the right not to trust. But that doesn't determine the order, that this one is the most important, and the other one is the less important one. The second reason is that I respect the constitution and I believe that the legislature could not change my term of office. That's what I think. [[And that's it.]] [[This is the last time I'd like to ask. It follows that there is a possibility of selective treatment of the legal system of our country, if the President so interprets it...]] Absolutely not. Excuse me, absolutely not, Senator. In our country's system the constitution is first, then there is a law and it is not possible to violate the constitution. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[There's still a lack of trust. Which in order is a lack of trust, because this is where...]] [[There's always...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u356	Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u357	Thank you very much. As far as I understand it, our democracy is based on these three pillars, namely the government, the legislator and the judiciary. Well, I'm sorry, but if most of us don't trust the Constitutional Tribunal, then I'm not surprised the others don't either. But now I'm talking about two things. And he would like to ask the president not so much because of the senators, because they probably know, but because of public opinion... I found out myself, took it with surprise, about such a detail that normally a man shouldn't... I'll ask about the Disciplinary Chamber. I'm talking about... I have two questions. First. In European countries, does such a disciplinary chamber exist in this system? And how have the judges been disciplined so far? 'Cause there are cases like this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] Well, don't bother me, 'cause I can't concentrate. Why don't you guys just... [[These are your friends at the club...]] I'm so sorry. Two questions. First: do there exist such institutions as the Disciplinary Chamber of Judges? Who are they subject to? Can't their judgments be challenged or appealed from them? And if that's okay, who do I appeal to? And a third. Is there such a disciplinary chamber somewhere in any European democracy? So what's been going on so far? How were the judges punished? I'm saying this very seriously because there was a meeting with a civil rights attorney, a lot of judges are now under... and the Disciplinary Board is taking care of their affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u358	Maybe I'll answer from behind like this. So far there has been a disciplinary department in the Criminal Chamber and he has dealt with disciplinary proceedings of judges, prosecutors and other legal professions. And for some time, too. Doctor's degree. At the moment, the Disciplinar Chamber was made. But that's not important because whether there's a department or a chamber, it doesn't matter. Here, it's what's important at all. And that's probably what the spokesperson was talking about. The Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, has as much authority in disciplinary proceedings. Or maybe he's bringing in his disciplinary agents, maybe he's ordering them to act... And it is worrying that the Minister of Justice, at the same time the Attorney General, has such great power in the case of primary disciplinary proceedings. And in the Supreme Court, this is an appeal procedure. What is it like in other countries? I don't know. But here I can answer again. Although undoubtedly such disciplinary courts may be It is not about the existence of such a court or the absence of such a court, it is about the whole procedure which gives the Minister of Justice very much power, but at the same time to the prosecutor general. That's what's unhealthy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u359	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Judge, I must address the subject of trust, still to you and to the Supreme Court, since we have already agreed that some institutions in the Polish State may not be trusted. My question therefore is as follows. Given what you're saying, could you name the laws and their specific records, as well as the institutions that you'd describe as Sorry about the word, but I can't find a better one. - Normal? - Mm-hmm. And on the other hand, you mean abnormal? And would that mean that those in your classification of abnormals are unbelievable enough that you will not abide by the law of their existence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u361	I've never done that kind of classification, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u362	I'm sorry, but... Now, I'm gonna ask Senator Bobko a question, and then we'll ask for an answer. [[Can I do it now?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u363	I promise this will be the last question. I don't want to be pushy. I'd like to ask you this, Madam President, Professor. Because I admit that I am able to accept, let's say, such a position that in the matter of shortening the term of the first President of the Supreme Court theoretically, because it is actually written in the Constitution, literally You can stand in the position that we apply the constitution directly. But I would like to... Here, colleagues from the opposition say that the problem of the Polish judiciary and reform is not only to shorten the term of the first president, but also on a whole range of other things. It's all ruined. Right? We have an unconstitutional National Judicial Council, we have incorrect... we have a law against the constitution of common courts. Other records concerning the Supreme Court are also contested. [[The Constitutional Tribunal.]] [[Quiet, please. Question, Mr. Senator.]] Now, here's the question. Does the president share that view? According to you, the National Courts Act and the General Court Act and other provisions concerning the Supreme Court are also constitutionally questionable. Because maybe you think that only this one provision concerning the term of office of the first President is unconstitutional If so, why did you not refer these other laws to the Constitutional Court? I share Professor Wind's opinion here. If the Constitution gives the institution or body the right to ask questions to the Constitutional Tribunal and that body, the person sees something wrong in the matter, he has not only the right to, but also the obligation to ask the Constitutional Tribunal the right question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u364	Okay, Mr. Senator. It's been a minute. [[Thank you.]] There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u365	As regards the incorrect regulation of the KRS... The Supreme Court Act is already partially improved here, let's call it. There were a number of Supreme Court opinions that are on the website. We showed very clearly what it was like, for example. the lack of constitutionality of the Act on the National Judicial Council. As far as the Universal Courts Act is concerned, here is the fundamental issue that I was talking about, i.e. the administrative supervision of the Minister of Justice. This oversight goes far beyond the balance of the authorities and makes judges not... may not be unimpeachable. That's what it's all about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u366	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me...]] Would you like to ask? [[I'd like to ask, if I may, because...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u367	Since the professor confirms that a whole series of laws are inconsistent with the constitution, I repeat the question. Why was this not addressed to the Constitutional Court? As far as I'm concerned, the powers of the Supreme Court are not... [[...directed to the Senate among others.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] The Supreme Court has no jurisdiction, as it is termed, to rule over constitutional disputes. He can express his opinion... [[There's no need for that.]] ...but there is no authority to decide whether or not the bill is constitutional. If you are aware that these laws are non-constitutional, why have not the relevant questions been addressed to the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u368	Mr Senator, the KRS Act was addressed by the previous KRS to the Constitutional Tribunal and then withdrawn. As regards the assessment of all these changes, which were made for a year and a half or two, they were very carefully analysed in the opinions of the Supreme Court. I think that Parliament has the greatest responsibility for adopting such solutions. Don't accuse the Supreme Court that he hasn't filed a case with the Constitutional Court yet, because we've really spent a lot of time showing what mistakes are, not only in our bill, but also in other laws, let's call it judicial. This has never been accepted and I regret it because it could be improved. The senator himself knows that the Supreme Court Act could also have been improved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u369	Thank you very much. Now you ask Senator Czerwinski a question, and then you ask Senator Żaryn. Yes? Again, Professor? Good. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Is...]] I know, Madam President, but the senators want to ask questions. That's their right. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: They have the right. Good.]] There you go. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u370	Again. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Continued issues related to the relationship of the law to the Constitution. Well, in the Supreme Court Act in Art. 75 in §1, which speaks of disciplinary penalties for judges of the Supreme Court, in point 4, there is a penalty for removal from the occupied function, and in point 5 of the statement of resignation of the judge, of course, after very acute, I would call it disciplinary delicts. The question is, then, according to your reasoning, what is it like? Can the first President of the Supreme Court, of course, speak abstractly about the law, and not about individual cases, punish disciplinaryly by removing from the occupied office or by submitting a judge from office? Because if so, what about a six-year term? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, I've heard all the time that it's ruthless. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because I remind you that art. 75 on punishment is an article of the bill, not a constitution. And that question is a continuation of the previous question. Madam President, there were different people who expressed different positions, but generally tried to avoid journalistic jargon. Well, the term "judges of the doubles" is journalistic jargon, which is offensive to the judges, i.e. the people of your profession. I'll admit we don't use that kind of jargon even in such an intense discussion in the Senate. [[What do you mean, no?]] [[We use it all the time.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u371	Are you done, Senator? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, I know you're Professor Żaryn... But I would ask for such a less natural reaction, because, ladies and gentlemen, you may disagree with the question, with the senator's statement, but mocking the senator during the sitting... [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] It's really not very elegant. Professor Żaryn, and then Senator Zbigniew Silence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will group questions of three, ladies and gentlemen. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Judge, I am referring to my previous question. I understand that you don't classify the laws and their particular records from the point of view of normality and abnormality, but you know perfectly well that I didn't ask you that question. 'Cause unfortunately, I don't trust that. In fact, the Supreme Court judge will comply with all the laws in force in Poland today. You tell me a lot. here to us today that there are such records and such institutions that the Supreme Court should treat somehow differently, according to a key other than the key of the internal rule of law. Give me a chance to trust the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u373	Thank you. Mr. Senator Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u374	Madam President, since 23 judges are involved in the case, could you tell the President what more or less the number of cases these 23 judges dealt with each year? Because if that's the fight we've been fighting, months or years, it always raises a question. As the Romans said, "De minimis praetor non curat" is worth the whole war that has been going on for so long. Because it could have been a little different at the beginning. I have, moreover, drawn attention to the dangers that have now occurred in the proceedings before the Luxembourg tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u375	There you go, Madam President. I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u376	Senator Czerwiński is talking about my jargon. I think maybe my language is often less elegant, but I think it's rather university language. I've been an academic teacher most of the time, and that's my flaw, that I'm cutting back on these conversations, which I'm sorry if I offended anyone. If I were convicted in disciplinary terms, then, of course, I couldn't be a judge by judgment, and I couldn't be the president of the Supreme Court or the first president of the Supreme Court. But it would be by judgment... [[Voice from the room: Act?]] No, the sentence. Sentence. And here the bill introduced for no reason something that is contrary to the constitution. Senator Żaryn doesn't trust me. Well, I'm very sorry. I've never been so accused that I misjudged that I was doing something wrong, wrong. Well, 23 Supreme Court judges... How many cases could there be? I'd have to go in chambers like this. How many different cases a year are there in one room? Well, for example. Seven thousand. And there's 40 judges in there, so split it up. I don't know how to divide it. Forty, twenty... Yes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u377	Are there any more questions for the president? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[One quick question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u378	All I'm saying is whether an emergency complaint exists in other democracies and if it's not... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...an element of political pressure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u379	Mr. Senator, you gave yourself the floor. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Oh, sorry, I thought your marshal was looking at me.]] Oh, no, I was looking at a professor who wants to ask a question, too. [[He's more handsome.]] [[Well, it's gone. I'm sorry.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u380	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam President, thank you very much for stressing your confidence in the Senate because we are making very difficult and important decisions here. And now I have a question for the president. If we have taken a decision in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4, which says that the bill defines the age limit, after which the judges are retired, if we have determined the conditions for remaining in office... Tell me why these judges didn't trust us and our bill. Part of it questioned this law, part of it filed the relevant documents according to the law, took advantage of the possibility of staying. I don't do art anymore. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3, referring to the first Supreme Court President. I'd say it's some sort of controversy, all right, but I don't understand why the judges didn't trust us. [[Thank you very much...]] Because if... [[Yes?]] ...have confidence, basically this bill today wouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u381	Okay, thank you. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Act...]] Madam President, just a moment... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Sorry.]] This is a block of questions. There were already two questions. The third one you want to ask Senator Arthur Warzocha. Yes? [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: One question. Only your senator...]] Senator Fedorovich... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: But he withdrew...]] [[It's done.]] All right. I didn't give the floor, but... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: I will write down...]] Okay, Mr. Senator. I think it's gonna be the last round of questions. [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u382	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Professor, I have a question for you. You're watching what's going on in this room today, the behavior of senators from the Civic Platform who allow themselves to... Well, of course everyone has the right to applaud, everyone has the right to express, also in a nonverbal way, their emotions and feelings, but nevertheless a certain canon of behavior here, in this room, applies. And the Senators of Law and Justice are trying to behave within this canon. We've heard it here... Maybe it was a little off the record, for example. Senator Czarnobaj was not polite to turn on the microphone when he referred to the physical characteristics of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice when he said that everyone from there was the same... [[Ask me a question about that, Mr. Senator. Please, it's late tonight. I'd like to ask you a question about something.]] Well, the Civic Platform state already has some work to do. Your leader also used a language that dehumanized people like us, comparing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Treacherous faces...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Okay, I'm almost done. [[I'd like to ask you a question, Madam President, about the bill or its appearance.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] He called us PiS locusts and many senators present then, at this convention just clapped, applauded their leader. You didn't back out of this. [[Question, Mr. Senator...]] So the question to you is, do you agree that public discourse, among people of public trust, should be of such a nature, and do you think that on this basis you can build the authority of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court, since you have the support of people who can behave in this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u383	Good. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Will there be any more questions for the president? No. Good. I'm closing my last round of questions. Madam President, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u384	Let's start with the last question. The Supreme Court's authority is indisputable and I am not building it on any political option. As for the emergency complaint, the question of Senator Fedorovich, there is one emergency complaint in the Supreme Court. This, of course, is disrupting the case-solving system, because this is the fourth instance. Such instruments are not likely to be envisaged in the broad European law. Senator Stanisławek asked why judges do not trust the laws that you have passed, the Supreme Court laws, and demand work until the age of seventy. That's how I understand it. Those who were in the middle... [[Some do, some don't.]] Some do, some don't. Some have adapted and requested the President's permission to continue to take office. And very good judges, the distinguished didn't get that permission. They probably regretted applying for it. There were 2 truly outstanding judges of the Supreme Court who, without any justification, received no consent, also from the National Courts. Some of the judges canceled. As for those who have questioned it, who have decided to contest it... Judges are not in their nature to contest the decisions of authority. Really. These are people who work in the silence of the cabinet and who express their opinion in sentences. It's been going on for years. And here's the thing... We wrote in the opinion of the Supreme Court Act that it is impossible, so to speak, to change the rules during the game. It was possible to introduce a lower retirement age as it is now, but in the case of these older judges it could not be changed, because the judge, according to the Constitution, is inextricable. Changing this rule of the game completely unnecessarily caused such a judge to be removed, to be removed. Hence there was such a difference between the actions of the judges, but also such an assessment of the bill. Judges often say there's a bill that's not quite complete... and that there's an interpretation to be made. Not all laws are perfect, but in the case of some you can make an interpretation, and in the case of some you can not. So that it's not a lack of trust in Parliament, it's just cold legal knowledge. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u385	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal. Thank you for your attention.]] Yes, sir. Another question? [[No, God forbid, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, if your marshal will allow me... Senator Warzocha's lips have my name, and I'd like to correct something.]] You're welcome, but quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u386	Yeah, sure. Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask you a senator. The ladies here write down what falls out of the hall, and there's a sound system. I'm talking about finding a fragment when I, Leszek Czarnobaj, say anything wrong with anyone's qualities. I'm not talking about the Prime Minister anymore. I'd really ask for that. [[You were talking about mine.]] [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u387	No, you can't. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is adjourned. We move on to the next stage of the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first President of the Supreme Court has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, please speak to Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It's a good thing we're past the questioning phase, because at least we can share with our guests what we think about this bill. I've already thanked you, Madam First President of the Supreme Court. I wanted to join these wishes and wishes for the future: that you remain faithful to these values and principles for which the judge's environment has fought such a fierce fight over the past few months, opposing the PiS attack on the values of an independent judiciary in Poland, but at the same time, so that you can avoid being involved in a political game that will try to get to you, as you can see in this Chamber. Of course, trust in justice, in particular the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal, is crucial. It was in the words that fell both from one side of the room and from the other side of the room. But can you have confidence in the justice system, when the Constitutional Tribunal Act changes several times, when the General Court Law changes several times and when the Supreme Court Act changes for the seventh time? This is destabilization, not stabilization of justice. And that's not justified by any reform, because it's not reform, it's political submission to justice. We've been dealing with this process on the part of the PiS for three years. And that's not normal. And this bill is a step backwards from that jump to justice that you started doing at the beginning of this term of office. I'm addressing the politicians of the PiS. [[Voice from the hall: It's in that term of office.]] But you are also experiencing exactly the same at the moment, Mr. Senator, as you experienced in January this year, when you adopted, despite our warnings, despite the warnings of experts, despite the warnings of one of the Senators of the PiS Club, Senator Anders, the IPN Act, from which you later had to immediately withdraw. This is exactly the same situation, the one with the Supreme Court Act that was in January this year. Despite the warnings, knowing that you were making a mistake, a big strategic mistake, you made a mistake, and then you had to eat that frog you grew. And the exact same situation is with the Supreme Court. The question for me right now is just one thing: why all the show with the amendment, with the seventh amendment of the bill? After all, contrary to what Minister Warchoł said, the safeguard provision applies directly. It suspends the implementation of certain provisions. The text, which everyone can read, clearly states what the Court of Justice of the European Union expects of the Polish Government, the suspension of the rules that it expects until the final judgment is given. So don't tell us that the reason for this bill, and it's at such a rate, is to enforce a safeguard order. Well, of course, it's not your concern for the rule of law either, because no one's gonna believe that you've converted to the rule of law in so short a time, since you've been breaking it for three years. Well, he's not even more concerned about the constitution, because you haven't done a conscience check, nor has there been a strong resolution for improvement, nor did you say you're going to respect the constitution. Besides, I didn't accidentally ask that yesterday at the committee meeting, and today at the committee of ministers. And they both think it's not about the constitution that the non-compliance of the bill with the constitution is the reason for its amendment. They think that that bill you're trying to repeal at the moment is constitutional. That's still what the two vice ministers think. So not concern for the constitution, but, as they say, loyalty or submission to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Well, that's a pretty complicated argument I have to say because you've been accusing the current opposition that she's been on her knees for years, which wasn't true, but just like you guys are lying in front of the Court of Justice right now, I don't think anybody's been lying... [[Applause]] ...on your own request, at your own request. And just so you don't admit that you want to take a step backwards because of the compatibility of the Supreme Court Act with the Constitution, you prefer, out of pure pragmatism, to comply with this safeguard arrangement. So it's not about the rules here, it's about pure pragmatism. It's just a clean policy that's coming out right now. Well, I think it's the success of those who aren't behind our windows right now. This is the success, above all, of those who, during all the attacks on the rule of law that you have been using for 3 years, stood here under the windows, day by day, night by night in July, November and December. This is the success of all those who are citizens aware of their rights and aware that they expect these rights to be respected. And I think we're gonna be able to do the next steps with them. Therefore, I would like you to know that we will not stop here, that we will fight for the return of the National Judicial Council to act as the constitutional guarantor of judicial independence, because now it does not work that the Constitutional Tribunal should once again be able to properly and objectively rule on what is either in line with the Constitution, and not just the extortion of this new political system. I assure you that on this one-off success we will not stop the rule of law in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u389	Thank you. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is impossible to begin with except by thanking all those citizens who have been taken over by the ongoing law-breaking process, especially when the bombing has already gone so far that they will reach the Supreme Court. I think we're still hearing this: Senator, you can still hear it. We hear these people. And what I'm saying is that there wouldn't be the determination of many politicians if it weren't for the support of ordinary people. This victory is their victory, and that's why it's important. But we must also appeal to them and tell them that it is a little joy that it is a victory that is not happy, because this should not be done in our homeland. Also because it is only a victory in a small battle during a huge war that will still have to be fought with those who here And tonight, too! They insisted that what was evidently a violation of the Constitution, in their view, did not have such marks. This means that they do not draw any conclusions and that they will oppose to all the movements that will aim to restore the rule of law in Poland. So this will not be an easy task. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this whole process of making instalments, slice by piece, piece by piece... The destruction of the justice system is embarrassing for Poland and for Polish legislators. This is a great harm that will be difficult to repair, also in the eyes of a society that has the right to lose the rest of its trust in us, too, in the Senate. What we have witnessed here is Parliament's instrumentalization, which, especially on the part of the majority, was used to push through, often at night, regulations that now need to be rapidly withdrawn. Why? Just out of fear. Where's your courage? Where are those who stood here and defended these laws? None of them stop here today. They ran away from the gym. And rightly so, because it's a shame! Ladies and gentlemen, there are such curiosities that, in the case of the bill that we have before us, we must convince everyone and ourselves that white is white. Well, how's that? The term of office of the judge who has been interrupted shall be deemed to be continuous. The terms of office of the first President of the Supreme Court, who has allegedly been interrupted, shall be deemed to be unbroken. I mean, it's like a complete psychic! Something that's different is considered to be different. So that's the kind of absurdity you're bringing in. And reversing the effects of these changes will, unfortunately, still require such legal violations. I would like to put it this way: a long way ahead of us, this is just the beginning. For, after all, the building of the rule of law is founded on the foundation of the independence of the courts and independence of the judges, on which the pillars of the rule of law, our state, are based: the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Council of the Court of Justice, and below the common courts. The executive power was determined to hit these pillars. One of them was knocked over by the Constitutional Tribunal, strained the others. We're just repairing one of these pillars. The others are dysfunctional. That is why there is still a lot of work to be done, a lot of effort to restore order in Poland. Finally, the corrigendum. There is no minister, and I would like to correct his words. It is a slander to say that the European Union has ever questioned the right of Poland or any other country to reform its justice system. Someone who says something like that and is Vice Minister of Justice is embarrassing himself because he's lying in front of the High House. How can you do that? How can you do that? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that it is a disgrace to reprehend, intervene in the European Union on the restoration of the rule of law in Poland. The disgrace is the destruction of the rule of law! This is a disgrace! [[Applause]] And it is the duty of us to insist wherever we can on giving Poles the right to a fair trial. And it is not true that the European Union does not have the power to intervene on the violation of the rule of law in Poland, because we are part of the European legal system, we are Europeans and we cannot have less powers, less ability to assert our rights than everyone else in the European Union. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Minister has issued himself today, not for the first time, as the worst testimony, as a testimony of what moral qualifications he has to influence the justice system in Poland. That's very sad. In other countries, someone who would say that publicly, in front of a parliament, would have to resign within an hour. In Poland such standards do not apply at present, but they will come, I believe it deeply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very important bill. At the same time, we have a curiosity situation. I was wondering, and you could see, there were signs in the PiS that after the local elections, which by the PiS were lost in all the big, medium and smaller cities, there would be some reflection. And there was this reflection. And it was clear that the PiS wanted to withdraw from this conflict with the European Union, I was just wondering how it would do it, how it would write it down, and what those who said was all that was done with the Supreme Court, and before that with the Court, with the National Judicial Council, with the prosecutors who supported the taking over of the courts, because that was the case, the courts of all levels... What would they say, how would they justify a change in their position? Will they say that those who criticized were right? Will they say we broke the constitution? Will there even be any reflection, any embarrassment? Well, we heard voices that responded to our doubts and our allegations that you were breaking the constitution, that you were taking over the courts, that you wanted to run the courts, that you were breaking the three divisions of power. And this is really quite informative, because I hear and hear: there is no problem, there was no problem. And it was when I heard and we all heard how the president, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice said: Judge Gersdorf is a retired judge, he is no longer the first president of the Supreme Court. Because a retired judge cannot, by definition, be the President of the Supreme Court. Well, a retired judge can't be president of any court, he can't serve. The Act now states that the first term of office of the President of the Supreme Court has not been interrupted. Is that it? If so, why the bill? What's the bill for? This reminds me a little bit of a bill that we've already passed, like a year ago, about the publication of the Constitutional Tribunal judgments. We all remember that. We remember the demands of thousands of people and remember that here is a provision of a law that says: judgments must be published, but they have no legal force. And I was wondering, what's this for, what's this empty bill for anyway? The safeguard provision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg shall apply directly. And it would have been enough. You should have waited until the verdict. What's the point of doing all this shit? Well, unless those who made these previous 6 Supreme Court laws realized that in normal legal terms these laws would not be accepted and would be repealed. Interruption of the six-year term of office of the President of the Supreme Court, and in addition termination of the term of office, shortening the term of office of judges on the basis of a pension law, which brings retirement five years earlier than in the current... Of course, that wouldn't last at the Court of Justice because it couldn't last. Every lawyer knows that! Well, only the lawyers at the Ministry of Justice don't know that. They don't know that. I must say that I am shocked by this, but not only that, because also with this relationship to the European Union, to the European Commission. There, in this Ministry of Justice, the European Union is still treated as a foreign body, and not even as alien, but as hostile. Gentlemen, we are members of the European Union. If that's how you treat her, if it's the environment that treats her like that, then of course she does it consciously. He wants to get Poland out of the Union because that's how things are. If the rule of law is violated, and in addition to those enshrined in the EU Treaty, Poland is being moved out... The Union from Poland. It wasn't, and there won't be. And you didn't have to make a bill, a scam act, a weird bill, which isn't your bill. This is a bill passed because others had a different opinion about the fact that the constitution was being violated. I thank you very much for admitting that we were right, that those people who protested were right, thousands of people were approaching the building of the Sejm, under the Senate. That the judges of the Supreme Court were right to pass resolutions on this matter, that the judges were right to ask questions to the European Court of Justice... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] This is a right for those who say, "Do not break the law, do not break the law!" I want to thank all those judges who weren't prepared for this situation. I want to thank them because they're not men of war, they're men of justice. I want to thank you for the resistance they resisted for not being afraid. [[Applause]] [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sure the other judges won't be afraid either. It's gonna be just like it used to be. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u393	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! First of all, I would like to remind you that at first this was about judicial reform. I would also like to remind you that no one on our part questioned the need for judicial reform. But no one expected what happened after that. The Minister would probably like us to congratulate him on his seventh success in turn in such a short time, because it will already be the seventh success, but seriously speaking, we must say that we are really dealing with the devastation of the judicial system in Poland. Please note that the promotion routes related to the substantive criteria have been destroyed in the courts. There's been a politicisation, and there's a stubbornness of the courts. There has been liquidation of the European authority of the Polish justice system. There has also been a development of negative patterns for the youngest generation of lawyers. Unfortunately, they looked at it, just as our generation once saw what lawyers were doing in a state of war. Such frequent amendments, and there were 7 of them, prove not only arrogance and instrumentalism, of course also lack of professionalism, but also lack of responsibility: responsibility for the state, liability for the law. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have often adopted laws without amendments, mostly without amendments, as I recall, almost all of these amendments were adopted without amendments. What does that mean? This also means the devastation of the position of the legislative offices of the Sejm and the Senate, which paid attention to this, and these comments were completely disregarded at all. Of course, I am no longer talking about our comments and other comments that were. What else? The judges, as Mr. Marshal was just talking about, were forced into non-professional activity, to defend the courts against devastation, and they should be dealing with what they were called to do. Advanced judges with problems I won't go into details anymore. The recent promotions in various groups of judges with problems mean that corporals without knowledge and authority have become generals. We're dealing with this. And today, unfortunately, Poland is, together with Romania, Belarus, Hungary and Bangladesh, on the wallpaper of the European Union. That is because in those cases there were resolutions similar to ours. I will no longer talk about it, because I have talked about it several times, about the economic consequences, ladies and gentlemen, about the lack of trust in the Polish legal system by entrepreneurs, courts in other countries, about these extraditions, etc., etc. 3 postulates now will be a quote memorable and known to the state. Free courts, free elections, free Poland are in fact inextricably inseparable. Remember that if our vote turns against any of them, free courts, free elections and, above all, free Poland will be remembered by free people. Says who? Mr... [[President Zabłocki.]] ...President Zabłocki, Stanisław Zabłocki, the judge, here, from this place talked about it. And that worked out because those free people decided it. They came to the Senate, they went to Brussels, they fought for it with our help. I'm talking about the senators on this side. And these people, free people, should be greatly thanked. Of course, thanks should also be given to judges who set an example of extraordinary courage, fortitude of spirit, who set an example of excellent citizenship and were an example to all of us as to how we should behave these days. Those judges should be thanked. Judge Zabłocki believed in the Senate at the time, expressed his hope that the law was more important than the political agreement, and said that the term of office of the President, without any kind gesture, was enshrined in the Constitution. He expected us to change our minds about voting differently after all. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. He also talked about the speech, not mentioning by name, Mr Peterowicz, who spoke about judges, that they would have a service mentality towards the state. He said a servant was a butler or a farm boy, and he asked if this service was about us. He asked where the citizen was in all this because there was to be service to the citizen, not to the state. Because the servants to the state were judges. or senators at different times that we would like not to talk about and forget about today. And unfortunately, it turned out, ladies and gentlemen, that some of us misunderstand this service. And that also applies, Minister, to officials. Officials also have a duty to serve the citizen, not to serve the state or, God forbid, to serve a party or a president. And at the end of my speech, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen... Because today there was a lot about the Constitutional Court: why we didn't address it, why the President didn't ask and so on. Anyway, it's all been cleared up. And I will remind you, what Prime Minister Szydło did, that here, in this place, we protested, wrote to the Government, publish! What did Prime Minister Szydło do? She hasn't published a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's when we heard about the Constitutional Court that these are opinions over coffee and cookies, you remember. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Oh, yeah, that's right. That's what happened. And President Kaczyński then said that the judgments of the Constitutional Court are considered non est because they are not published. [[Yes.]] That's what it looked like. And that was the attitude to... [[To the Court.]] ...the Constitutional Tribunal. And now you're suddenly reminded of the Constitutional Tribunal. What I think of the Constitutional Court, I said here, when the President of Przyłębska was here. I told him what he was doing and how the Constitutional Tribunal behaved. Few people in our country have confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal, unfortunately. So that the whole list I mentioned concerning the judiciary and the devastation of the judicial system has to be accompanied by the devastation of the Constitutional Tribunal, which no one trusts anymore... [[And KRS.]] And, of course, the KRS, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u395	Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Plato, in the seventh book of his dialogues entitled "Politeia," or "State," presented the world as an unrealistic game of shadows. These shadows according to Plato are a twisted, corrupt image of our flaws, a reflection of reality, and the true reality is a world of ideas which these shadows, like shackles, bind. I think that for PiS Poland it is just such a platonic cave, in which everything that can be associated with you is just a shadow, a dummy and only a PiS, and perhaps even only the president of PiS can see the real idea and put it out. Well, maybe Minister Warchoł could put it out. The atrape is mainly the contemporary polytheia, or institution of the Polish state. A trap is a three-part division of power. After all, in the PiS model it cannot be so that the elected Member or Senator will not be able to decide the fate of the judge, including the fate of the Supreme Court President. The trick is the constitution, which does not know why it is written that politicians cannot rule above all, first of all they cannot rule the courts which, at the head of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Supreme Court, do not know why and why they are to be independent, and therefore not governed by politicians. A dummy is the European community, which, like every community, has established the principles to be respected if you want to be a citizen of it. A dummy is the Court of Justice of the European Union, established in order for there to be one final judge who will determine and declare who complies with Community rules and rules and who does not comply with them. [[And he should.]] It's a trick to even think about making rules like that. After all, everyone is a free man and there will be no one in Brussels or other Luxembourg telling a Pole who loves freedom above all else, how to act. Today we are witnessing the creation of another dummy. It is claimed that when we adopt another law on the Supreme Court, we are executing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the EU. Your Senate, the question arises: why is the government and why do you, Senators of Law and Justice, keep these impostors in social memory and consciousness? Why don't you just talk about your ideals? The fact that the three divisions of power, the constitution, independent Polish and European courts are worse than the party authority. And if you can't say it for some reason, why aren't you taking note of the ruling of the Court of Justice today, just trying to distort the reality of an unnecessary and crippled act? I know, High Senate, why. Because you are ashamed and afraid to admit that despite the warnings sent by us, by the political opposition, but also by experts, constitutionalists and academics, you expose Poland and Poles to billions of losses. And I'm not surprised that you're ashamed and afraid of it, because where there's real money, that's where the world of fakes ends. Billion-dollar punishments can't be stunned by stories about a mandate received by a sovereign. Billion-dollar punishments or inevitable polyxit in this policy will hurt like a dog bite. They'll hurt your constituents too. Your Senate, the Supreme Court Act has no substantive reason. It is unnecessary and even harmful, but it is not pointless to not show the nation that the government must withdraw. It is necessary to keep telling Poles that we are not cracking before the Union, but we will improve something for the picu, because we waste time translating to those from Luxembourg or Brussels who did not survive, like us, heroes in the mirror, 50 years of communism and do not understand that although communism fell 30 years ago, we are still at war with communism. And it is known that war justifies everything: the application of war laws, the restriction of civil rights, vigilance in tracking enemies in every environment and the application of other customary solutions, so to speak. And I regret to say that you may yet succeed this time, but I speak with hope, and with reasonable hope. Not for long now. In Elbląg and many cities of Poland, judges on the occasion of the celebration of independence appeared in shirts that PiS disliked with the inscription Ten days later, the Deputy Minister of Justice arrived in Elbląg. He had the courage to come to them, he probably wanted to yell at them, but he didn't have the courage to face the Elblążans demonstrating under this court. Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I hear you invited the President of the Supreme Court, but the contents of the invitation the committee chairman did not want to reveal any more. And no wonder, because how can you invite someone when the date of the sitting is known half an hour in advance. The senator can be informed in this way because he is in place, but not the President of the Supreme Court, who will not wait a few days in the hallway. That invitation was just a fake, too. The senate's motto as a House of reflection is also a trap, the reality is more and more often the slogan "The Chamber of Reflections." These facts, however, show that you already feel the breath of reality and are afraid of it. Speaking of fear of EU penalties, I just said that you're afraid of those punishments like dog bites. I didn't mean to offend anyone. I used this comparison because there is a legend that when Plato explained his vision of shadows to another philosopher, the dog attacked him. What did Plato do? He ran from him to the tree. And his adversary shouted, "Before what, Plato, are you running away?" It's just a shadow! You can't run to a tree. You can't escape responsibility. She's not a shadow. She's gonna hurt you. Like a dog bite. It will be the end of building a dummy of democratic and law-abiding Poland, Polish shadows, Poland from the Platonic cave. We'll get back to reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u397	Senator Jan Rulewski, you're welcome. There's gonna be some happening. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u398	I won't take my clothes off, Mrs. Marshal, because I don't want you or the High House or the public to alienate myself. I'd like to say a few words as the author of the amendments and the author of the two-year struggles that started on the black night of November and sort of rolled the wheel. After two years, history returned to, unfortunately, the black night of November. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no dispute over the reform over these two years. Instead of polemics, it certainly fell from the mouth of the highest representatives of the executive authority, but not only, the words that the judges of the Supreme Court are thieves who should not judge. That's what Minister Ziobro said. Mr President, undoubtedly in favour of pension systems, emphasized with all his power that your first President of the Supreme Court is a long story, she is already a retired woman, although she did not grant her pension rights, which she granted to all people in Poland. The official of state television, the largest liberal in Poland, supposedly the only editor of Ziemkiewicz in appreciation for his column said that the caste of the judge went to rympal and that he organized rokosz in Poland. Even worse: many ordinary people spoke about us abroad, marketplace, street, traitors. Senator Zaryn asked. It was the only question he asked, full of concern. Whether these thieves will give back the money they collect within a few months. Senator Żaryn, I promise... [[He didn't use the word thieves, Mr. Senator.]] But the others from his political camp used it, Mrs. Marshal. I promise, even if these judges don't pay back, we'll pay those bills, but only if you pay the bills for the two years you lost. [[Applause]] As long as you wash away the shame, how the foreign opinion expressed itself about our rule of law system. And even if there are no more illusions that you fed your electorate. We're gonna pay for this! [[Applause]] But you can't just live in the past. The act you are presenting to us, I am even willing to support in the name of goods, in the name of the interests of ordinary people who are arguing before courts in Poland and abroad. I am able to understand that even the donkey who is going to the dark valley will turn back where the manger is waiting for him, the European strong manger. He gets it. I understand the fact that it is better to communicate with the European Union, which wants to communicate and, you can say, forgive, than with those who have to kneel before and who are insistent. I understand that, and in the name of this truth, I am able to adopt a reconciliation attitude, but there is a condition that everyone puts here. After all, this is not about the joy that you are again expressing because of the instant mastery of the topic, this time in the case of the KNF scandal. I had a friend whose apartment was attacked by cockroaches. No one came to him, and he declared: guests, come because there are no more cockroaches in my house. They're not here today, but I'm not sure they didn't assault him again later. And this is what I would like to say about those things that I consider to be a condition. The first condition is to respect the constitution, the whole constitution... [[Applause]] ...not some interpretation of this constitution. She's already X years old, and she's been flipped and checked multiple times on all sides. Besides, why are you presenting the Polish constitution in opposition to the European Constitutions? Of course, we're not monarchies, other constitutions don't have recitals, but in all European constitutions. 'Cause there can't be any other way. There are human rights, the right to court, the right to access the court at the right time, the right to its independence, so that you do not put the matter so that the Polish constitution is in opposition to foreign constitutions. This is the same constitutional area that is defined by the Vatican, and by the atheists, and by the innocent as the laws based on human dignity. A man's dignity consists of... There's no permission to prosecute, to challenge people, judges from thieves. I think this time is the beginning of a new time. That's what my colleagues were talking about. I consider the first necessary condition to be not so much the fulfilment of what this European Court has just recommended... Because that's his job. I think they're behind... First of all, Poland is behind cases relating to the whole rule of law, including the National Council of Judicial Affairs, including the avoidance of this massacre, which was carried out in common courts, etc., etc. And such a declaration neither here, in this room nor in that hall, so I can assume that this is an occasional action. In this situation, I cannot raise my hand behind this bill or even abstain from voting. High Izbo, at this point we must say that it is a constitution, that it is the law that people have succeeded. We must thank all those who have come to you, to you, and have come to us, although sometimes they have been lonely, like those two women in Grudziądz, still standing before the courthouse today. And there were these great masses, there were these young people, but there were also experts, both in the country and abroad. And let us turn to our legislators, who constantly, not without problems Time and not only They had to write independent opinions that you couldn't read. Learn to read people who can write and write wisely. [[Senator Jan Rulewski presents a poster with a mask from Greek comedy]] In this understanding I believe, High Izbo... In order not to prolong, Mrs. Marshal, we send a smile to these people. It is not yet a joy, but we send these people our smiles, smiles for the coming years, for a peaceful Christmas, the birth of the rule of law of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u399	Mr. Senator, this mask motif is haunting you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski. [[This is another mask, Mrs. Marshal.]] I know it's different, but it's a mask. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a talk here about the logic of this bill. I'm looking for logic in the justification of this bill. On the one hand, the government says this: what we have done so far has been constitutional, it has been correct, and we will convince the European institutions that we are right; we will fight to the end, because we believe to this day That the security issued by the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the European Union is unfounded. I don't mean to say that it doesn't make any sense... That's what law enforcement is talking about. I've been trying to figure out, I've been talking to constitutionalists... I am only a doctor of constitutional law, but I have contacts with very experienced constitutionalists, with representatives of science dealing with EU law. My questions to the Minister were not without a goat. I asked if any authority in this precedent situation, when the vice-president of the European Court said that there is absolutely no need to implement legislative initiatives here, that the resolution is a legal basis, and by its very nature it is necessary to act... And that was the basis for your first president of the Supreme Court and the return of the judges to work. I mean, what kind of logic is that if you don't need it, if they're coming... Because it's not a sentence. It is a judgment in the form of a decree, not a judgment. We don't agree. I'm talking about the government. At the same time, we overzealously and completely without any... contrary to this statement of reasons we accept such a thing, we shape such a law. The law should be shaped only after the final judgment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, really... I asked you in a serious tone. Mr. Vice-Minister, did any of the constitutionalists comment on this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Supreme Court Act, which is the greatest authority and foundation of the rule of law. This is the Supreme Court Act! So, seventh amendment? On a whistle in a couple of hours? Well, ladies and gentlemen, where are we? Even the opinions... Today we had this opportunity, the Members of this luxury did not have The first President of the Supreme Court who expressed his opinion. Well, negative. That the bill is unnecessary, that, above all, storms... She's immoral about this seven-day period, which is the promotional period in which you can... This is how we want to encourage the judges to remain at rest and differentiate them, which is to act against the constitution again, on those who will have 100%. salaries and those who, in normal mode, pursuant to Article. 56 laws on the Supreme Court will have 75% his pension at rest. What is it, I'm asking. This is the execution of the decision of the vice-president of the Court? Do we see how old the judges of the European Court of Justice are? What's the logic? See Vice-President of the National Judicial Council, Judge Johann, is 79 years old and functioning, and no one is disturbed by this age... [[Voice from the hall: For it is its own.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Voice from the room:]] Because he's his own. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, and I support that. Legislator, ladies and gentlemen. They're the rules, that's the doctrine. It should be rational, and the doctrine is a presumption of constitutionality. This is not a constitutional provision. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no presumption of constitutionality of a provision that will regulate the matter differently than the constitution, because we have a system of sources of law. The most important thing is the constitution, and who, if not the judge, even the district court, not only the Supreme Court, is required to apply the constitution directly. And here there is no need to go to the Court, because it is the duty of the judge simply to behave in accordance with the legal basis. The legal basis is a higher-ranking act. And that's it. There's just a contradiction. What about the Constitutional Tribunal? The Constitutional Tribunal shall only, in a definitive manner, remove the provision in question from its legal order. But here was the situation that there was a higher order rule, which is otherwise normalized, and there is a lower order rule, created as a result of the joyful work of a group of Members who did not consider it appropriate to follow a normal procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Senator Wczyła talking about various kinds of para-institutions or facades. Ladies and gentlemen, so far in every ministry there have been codification committees composed of legal authorities. What's going on today? Well, there isn't. There is no codification committee, there is no criminal law, there is no civil law, because the authorities are the incumbent ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we? Where are we? I'm asking. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that you are smuggling back to 65 years, because it was 70 years old. So some judges are going to be 70, some are going to be 65, some are going to be new. Some will have 100 percent rest, others 75% rest. Ladies and gentlemen, we've already heard that some Supreme Court judges have 40%. more, others less. What are we getting at? I, ladies and gentlemen, make three amendments. The first, to reject, considering that there is no need, because the judges act, and the first President of the Supreme Court, in accordance with the Constitution, continues to act on a continuous basis. She was in charge of her office. So creating superfluum, once again... [[That he thinks he's...]] ...to write in the bill that it is continuous, is a complete nonsense. So... And, of course, for reasons of internal injustice... unconstitutionality. That's the first motion for rejection. And if this proposal doesn't go through, I'm applying for amendments to at least amend the bill to make it the same age... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, to be... [[Time.]] Then I'll take another five minutes. Unless your marshal gives me another minute, I'm done. [[It's a minute, please.]] Good. Because I want to make these amendments briefly. [[But one minute, Mr. Senator.]] These are the 2 amendments that make it the same age, or seventy years of age, as it has been so far. Well, because it can't be that the Supreme Court judge is to be 65 years old, that the district court judge may be extended to 70 years old, and the Supreme Court judge doesn't. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what is the logic? I'm not going to talk about certain patterns in the world anymore. I'm talking about what's in Europe. Yeah, it's completely absurd. So it's still, in my opinion, because of age, inappropriateness, to put it mildly... [[Okay, thank you very much, Senator.]] ...constitutional. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u401	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with a quote. Because, actually, about this substantive part, about the need for this law and other legal aspects, there's been so much going on here that I, let me quote... And I would particularly like to address the few Members of Law and Justice here... [[Senators.]] [[Senators.]] Sorry, senators. I'm sorry. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Apology accepted.]] Thank you. I would like to ask the senators to tell us who told us this and why this quote: "The creation of law cannot be an express, interventional response to current events." The amendment must not be chased by the amendment. Do you know who said that? [[Kaczynski.]] No, these are all candidates for Law and Justice candidate for the Polish Parliament who signed the Law and Justice programme. [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] [[There you go.]] [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] This is... [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: We support.]] [[We support...]] This is the clou of your program, ladies and gentlemen. I've been following you from time to time, reading these programs of yours, because I hope that's the second time you won't fall for the chaff. That if you write that the amendment can't be chased by an amendment, then you can't say "sorry," but a force higher than that, we have to do it. That is as much as your strategy is concerned. If we read, ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministry's explanatory memorandum... We have seen here the attitude of Minister Warchoł: light, free. And great, I like that attitude. Except not in relation to fundamental laws. Following the Constitution as one of the elements... That's what it sounded like: there are certain environments that we need to locate that say there may be constitutional problems. Well, of course we disagree, because there the Union, abroad, said something, sent us directives here... [[Traitors.]] Traitors, etc., the whole range of names. Well, we've prepared something like this, but I don't agree. In fact, our system is, as you remember, twins to those in many countries of the European Union. [[It's like Spain.]] [[In Germany.]] But there are also many positive elements. Because it's not like a human being is a thing that has all negative things. And here you have to see a positive thing. Namely authors And as I understand it, the Senators of Law and Justice support this. They say, however, that this constitution must be respected. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Well, in some way, but maybe it's worth thinking about. And this is positive: after 3 years you have noticed that some elements of the Constitution might be worth following. [[Applause]] And anything to say, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen tremendous progress in relation to what was 3 years ago. After all, three years ago you were so loaded here that the constitution was us, that the nation was us, that the constitution was us and the law was us. And today you're talking a little different. And when you see the polls after what you're doing right now, you're gonna be quite soft and talk about how different we are... And then, like, later... As far as the transition to rest is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, some will get 100%. , other 75%. Yeah, but who gets 100%? ? The one who's gone and won't come back. [[Or he'll go away.]] Or he walks away and gets a 100% reward. Well, you guys are good at giving out state money. Well, you're not the worst at taking, either. You're not the worst at taking. [[Applause]] But in giving public money... These institutes, this is all you guys are making, this is a fantastic thing, well, the European front. What I'm trying to say is that Machiavelli is the little thinker in front of you, the little man. The fact that the end justifies the means was... I don't know why he did it. Well, you're just applying the statement that the goal sanctifies the means. If you have to drag someone to your side, both of them, then the minister the other, the third, brings gifts for his wife, for his daughter, who wants to, asks: and who else do you have in your family? He says I have a wife. This one's asking, does he have an education? No. But it's right, it's right. Come on, then. [[A voice from the room: It will learn.]] ...the Vice Marshal. He'll learn. [[Mr. Senator, are you sure this is about this bill?]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. I assure you, Mr. Warchoł's philosophy is about this bill. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now the question of torpedoing the preliminary questions. I would like to say that today I listened to the speech by Professor Handka, who said this: the European Union's community of views is a value that no one is able to destroy today. And it turns out that there are people in Europe, in Poland who say: and no, no, we will agree that all these questions for a preliminary ruling at the time of the President's signing of the resolution no longer matter. Well, the NSA's already asked questions. As a result, the lawyers are gonna find... That's what I always say. Well, there's no law against which wise people wouldn't find a bypass. So don't bother too much, because I'm sure there will be bypasses. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few quotes on the judiciary. It's raining here, so I'm just gonna say... And here's the question, because you might know who said this: President I quote this, I would say: Mr. President signed the Supreme Court Act and ended communism in Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Isn't it beautiful? Minister Błaszczak. Minister Błaszczak. That's when communism ended. Well, I think those communists with that bill are coming back, well, they're coming back. As the President of the European Council said, the Bolsheviks are also returning. Mr. Senator, I'm just quoting, I'm just quoting, so far I'm quoting. And I would like to say that the face of these changes is Mr. D.A. Peterovich It was already raining, who blocked these laws, said: a few dissatisfied block changes, we must do everything to ensure that the thieves in the Supreme Court do not rule. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Well, that leads, ladies and gentlemen, to what? Well, it leads to the fall of authority, because in every group of people there are people and such and such, and you can probably find among those hundred people who can be said: well, maybe he's not as good as he should be. Yeah, I'm sure so, but the generalization and the heavy charges are a little out of order. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether this reform is working. The question is, does she give anything to the citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, I give. It's longer, more expensive, worse, longer expected. Well, did it work? [[She did!]] [[Voices from the hall: She gave it!]] Perhaps unexpected, but, ladies and gentlemen, gave: destruction of the judicial system, adoption of illegal resolutions This is a really high-end action. And, of course, the last thing: destruction of the image of Poland. Well, certainly what we do in Poland, which makes especially Law and Justice, does not affect the beneficial image of the Republic abroad. When I listen to a discussion on TV today and someone says that this bill is surrender, it's senators or politicians of the PiS who say, "No! What kind of surrender? What kind of surrender? [[Time's up.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, that's why I'm finishing up. Last sentence. What I'm trying to say is that I agree... I rarely agree with PiS politicians, but I agree with that. This isn't a surrender. This is the retreat of an army tripping against its own legs. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u403	Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In the times of the past, there was such a singer. You must remember because the Senate is a mature chamber called Joanna Rawik. Joanna Rawik has launched a hit whose title was "Why did we need it?" [[Joy in the Chamber]] And maybe I'll just bring up a fragment, slightly paraphrased. Why did we need that? Why did we need that? It barely started, and it's over. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Giving bitterness to the hearts and contempt to the eyes. Why did we need that? Why? Why? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this question requires an answer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That question needs an answer, and I'm gonna rub it right now, that's what I'm saying right now. I will rub it because I do not think that the politicians of Law and Justice, and especially the Senators of Law and Justice, are people who will accept everything, will not fully see the changes, the need for change, etc., etc. I know, I understand: Party discipline, etc., etc., but there are limits. Well, to get an answer to that question, why? And I am directing this to my colleagues right now, to a large extent, Senator Martynowski as a man who is responsible for a lot of things here. This question must be addressed to Minister Ziobra. 'Cause I don't know if you've noticed that Minister Ziobro every once in a while, as you say colloquially, puts PiS on a galloping horse, from which later The piss is falling and it's just gonna break. That was at the beginning when he came up with these laws that President Duda then vetoed. It has been argued here that everything is in line with the constitution, and then President Duda declared that it was not in line with the constitution and vetoed it. There was undoubtedly an internal crisis at the time. He's barely finished it, he's invented an IPN bill that shakes up our foreign policy, our relationship with important allies. It was not long ago, he sent questions to the Constitutional Court, so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal asked whether the EU Treaty is in line with our constitution, putting this Court in a completely, absolutely fatal situation. And it happens all the time. It's Mr. Ziobra's pompous ego that keeps coming around every once in a while. This is of course harmful to Poland, but I stress that it is harmful to you, it is harmful to the Law and Justice. So how long will you tolerate this gentleman and his will? Now, as far as the substantive issues of this law are concerned. Of course, this bill is not necessary, it is not the slightest doubt, but I am not as critical as e.g. Senator Zientarski. I mean, I think this recipe that's in it, about these 65 years, it's just ridiculous. Well, it's a shame to even talk. Why should a Supreme Court judge at the age of 65 retire? This is ridiculous! There's also some sneakiness in this bill. All cases pending in connection with the elections, as well as appeals, shall be dismissed. So this is a way to make these questions for a preliminary ruling go away at all. Well, they won't, but there's a sneakiness. So I don't like this bill. However, the fact that the government wants to stick it by law may be what I'd say. That what is in the Constitution is true and right... That's not enough, in the explanatory memorandum, he's referring to the constitution. I think it's a positive change. Well, if the explanatory statement says it was an inspiration... which was an inspiration to write this bill. In the first moments, when I read about inspiration, I thought that the first point would be the Court of Justice's reservations, because that's what sound sense looked like... But no. The first point contains numerous constitutional reservations, including the position of the Supreme Court. Well, ladies and gentlemen, for months or even years, we have learned that all these positions are pointless: Supreme Court, Legislative Offices, etc. We now learn that constitutional reservations were an inspiration. May this state of spirit remain in the Law and Justice, in the government, and may it also be so in the future. This is Minister Warchoł... Well, Minister Warchoł presented many of his scientific and legal concepts here. And this is a discussion that has already been held here in this Chamber. We've already exchanged all these arguments. Nevertheless, Minister Warchoł is persistently repeating the same arguments. So, yeah. First thing... But it was also in the questions and this is a permanent leitmotiv, you can say, the argument of PiS politicians on the court case. Namely, the point is that the European Union has no right to interfere in the reform of the courts of a given country. Indeed, not until the reform of the courts. And do you, for example? Did she interfere with the fact that the Military Chamber was shut down? No. Did she interfere with the establishment of a Disciplinary Chamber or public affairs? No. This is less what we like, because we know that it is primarily about the role of the Attorney General, but the European Union does not question it anymore. That's not what he's questioning. Not a reform of the judicial system, but a hit on the ground of the rule of law, on the basis of the independence of the judiciary. And this principle is simply at the heart of the European Union. I would have asked Minister Warcho a question like that if he had been here... I know he's in the buffet resting, but maybe he's watching. Well, I would ask a question. Let's just say that in a country of the European Union, Parliament adopts such a law, simply a short act. That all the judges are retired, and in a moment we will elect new judges. Could the European Union interfere with this, or would it have to swallow it? Well, of course not! After all, that would be a blow to the full foundation of the rule of law. This is unacceptable in the EU country. So it cannot be said that the Union has no right to interfere in these matters or to refer to them. Question: Which one? Yeah, what were they doing with us? And that brings me to the second point. They're talking retirement age. First of all, it's not a retirement age. The Constitution speaks of the age of retirement. He is distinct from the general retirement age. This can be combined, of course, but these are separate issues. And that's why you can't use the retirement age as a way to eliminate uncomfortable judges. It is not for this reason that this age is written in the Constitution to remove judges by means of it, because judges are indeterminate and that is in the first paragraph of this article. So here it is made out of a recipe that is simply useless and absolutely incompatible with the constitution. That's not what this age is for. It is also used to argue that the Constitutional Tribunal had spoken in its own time, and in 2007 I apologise, perhaps in 2002, because the retirement age of the judges was reduced at that time. Indeed, the retirement age has been reduced and the Court has said that it is possible to reduce the retirement age, but it is necessary to leave the possibility of extending work and this should be decided by the National Judicial Council. This law states that it can be extended, but it is decided by the President, which is the executive body. At that time, the Court stated that there could not be a decision of any implementing body. It is therefore simply unfair to use such arguments taken out of context. Senator Czerwinski asked... I don't know if Senator Czerwiński asked, maybe I'm wrong, but the question was, were there any examples of such interference? The professor replied that she didn't know such examples, that there probably wasn't. But that's not an argument. Poland has simply done something extraordinary. If she's done something unusual, it's interference. Now about this Spain and this KRS. I absolutely cannot refuse Minister Warcho's intelligence, this is a very intelligent man. So if he says these are twin systems, then he's just a cynic. He's a cynic, I'd say, on a large scale. Because in Poland... What does it mean that in Poland the judges have selected candidates? Which judges? Could I find out which one? Well, I can't find out until today. After all, this law, which was adopted in Poland, concerning the elections to the new KRS could also be applied in the extreme case as follows: the same 25 judges could have selected all candidates, and in a number not too large, slightly exceeding the limit so that they were elected. Right? Is that possible under this law? It's possible. Is this the judge's choice? Of course not. Yes, I would say that if it were said that the judges elected candidates in the larger number In this regard, it would be necessary to specify how many I must say that I would not protest because I would consider that the candidates had finally been elected by the judges in the democratic procedure. But that was not the case, so it would be good for Minister Warchoł to give up these comparisons of dishonest and simply untrue. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I would also like to mention the Constitutional Court. We have incorporated the Constitutional Tribunal into the Constitution, which is to be this final determining authority, whether the laws are in accordance with the Constitution. Such a provision means that this Constitutional Tribunal must be an institution of special trust, because it has great power. Therefore, the way of choosing, the credibility of those who are there, cannot be subject to such doubts as those which are currently taking place. Three people are just out there illegally. At least two persons are not fully qualified to sit in the Court. So don't be surprised that if you get a little bit of trust in an institution like this, then you'll get it. It's just... it's all falling apart. Once you pick them up, there's trouble. It's the same with the Financial Supervision Commission now. Trust in this institution has been ripped off, it's going to take a long time to rebuild, I don't know what it's going to look like, and I don't know what it's going to do. But in the case of the Court, it is absolutely unacceptable what was simply done there. Finally, there were such questions here, arguments that, after all, the constitutional termination of the term of office had to be submitted to... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...to the Court. This is really the last... That's it. That needs to be reported to the Court. Well, the President was right to say that there is no obligation to report to the Court any laws which are considered incompatible... But there's a rule in law. Mr. Senator Silence will confirm that. The obvious thing is that you don't lecture anymore. Right? Well, since it says in the Constitution that the term of office lasts six years, it is clear. And there's no point in going to the Court. And if someone introduced the bill and wrote that every newspaper editor before printing this paper had to report to the appropriate clerk and get a stamp... So that would be censorship, right? Yet the constitution clearly states that preventive censorship is forbidden. So what? We will go to the Court to determine whether it is true or not? [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm suspending my statement right now, but I'm warning you I'll be back. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u405	But then for less than five minutes. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe two notes, so hot. Well, to the statement of my previous honourable speaker... As far as the question of distrusting the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, I understand that when excesses were chosen, promotions, backups, members of the Tribunal, it was complete trust. Yes? [[And they didn't go to the Court.]] Was there full trust then? And then, when PiS took over, that trust no longer existed. And the second point, à as to whether a law or any other secondary act should be passed to the Court for consideration. No, it's okay. Of course not. But you shouldn't... I mean, a citizen can do anything, but the office... the person who does this office shouldn't say that the bill is unconstitutional. For what reason? Because if it has not been addressed to the Court and the Court has not yet dealt with it, it is called. a presumption of constitutionality. Everything is constitutional, in line with the Constitution, until the Constitutional Tribunal touches it. And it's very simple. That's the stability of the law. Of course, everyone can say for their own use: I think it is different. Okay, maybe, but not as an organ, not as an institution, especially so highly placed in the hierarchy of state authorities. But let's get back to the point, which is the bill. In fact, most of it has already been said about it, although it is not always true. This is a stage, or actually the end of a stage. There is an end to a certain stage, unfortunately also to disputes with the European institutions. And what do we see? One of the participants in this dispute was the Court of Justice of the European Union. I was convinced to some point that this was an institution that could actually be trusted. In quotation marks Everything, because it will always be fair, as it has it in its name. And it's ruined my trust. I'll remind you two facts because you don't discuss facts. First fact: provisional provision The vice-president of this Court issues them in the whirlwind of our election campaign the day or the last day before the election silence. The question is, who was it supposed to help, and who was it supposed to hurt? Maybe it was an accident. Yeah, the cases are in grammar, not politics. And that's what it says... and the second fact that's been confirmed here. Well, the President of the Court has spoken. I'll quote you. Yes: a country which does not take decisions of the Court is involved in a process similar to brexitu. Who were you scaring? Who did he warn? [[Those who don't follow the law.]] The question is, who uses the concept of "polexit"? And what is that concept? Up to a point, those who were uncomfortable were simply called Fascists. It was enough that someone said the word "nation," "Homeland," "Patriotism," and yet, God forbid, had a white and red flag in his hand, and he was already a fascist. Well, we had 60,000 marches of fascists. But this is no longer enough, because 250,000 people come to march and they see who on these marches is what the Fascists are like. So now there's another cep that you're supposed to load on your head, such a dull tool, and it's called a polexit. The Union must not be criticized, so when it rains, the Union is not the umbilical cord of the world, it is: oh, it's polyxit! When the Union is not the best institution, o, polexit! I'm gonna get some air. Oh, polexit! Ladies and gentlemen, this is absurd. This absurdity is therefore built to frighten the opponent, the political opponent of course, to label him and force him to explain that he is not an elephant or a camel. That's what this is really about. And the President has just threatened: we will make you camels, dear Poles, if you do not follow the rules we impose on you. So the question is, can we impose these rules on you? No, the treaties are clear: there are national competences, there are EU competences and there are common competences ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is national, national competence. There we go. End of discussion. So we have these two facts: one is this weird temporal coincidence, and the other, even more eloquent, is this statement that's supposed to scare us and tickle us. And they clearly testify: the Court of Justice of the European Union, unfortunately, is no longer an independent body in our eyes. It's becoming part of a political game. It may be, of course it is, but don't pretend, just don't make a mimicry. Well, the institution that was supposed to be the last bastion of justice, like the Constitutional Court, is no longer the bastion. He's becoming a tool. In whose hands? About that in a minute. The second element of this puzzle is the European Commission. A few weeks ago, I used here, from this bleacher, the notion: let's wait out the frustrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not offended anyone because frustration is a mental state. He's exactly described. Frustration is a condition occurring when there is long-term stress that affects the body and cannot cause this stress to be eliminated. Frustration comes from three ways: either by aggression or by apathy or by fixation. I will explain this third, because this is the element, this emphasis on Poland. This is a fixation, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, how does that work? Well, you do things that have nothing to do with the right ground, with the right problems, just to forget. The European Union has a Brexit on its head. What's he doing? He is referring Poland to the Court of Justice. The European Union has an uncontrolled influx of immigrants. What's he doing? It shall initiate the procedure with Article. Seven, because of course that'll help. The European Union has terrorist attacks on its territory. What's he doing? He's suing Poland because it will help. The European Union now has an independent Italy which dared to design its own budget! And what does he do? Well, of course she will sue Poland because it will help. Tomorrow's gonna be a big demonstration in Paris, France. What will the European Union do? He's gonna sue Poland for the Court because it's gonna help. Yes? Will it help? Of course it won't help. And why is it about waiting out? 26 May there will be elections to the European Parliament. And it will be another Parliament, certainly not so much controlled by forces How could I name it nicely? On the left side of the political scene. Then there will be another European Commission. Those gentlemen who are so tired of us now will go away politically, they will be gone from October 31st, and Poland will breathe. [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]] [[Which Poland?]] Poland will breathe. The question is, he's gonna make it to us by now. The European Union force? Well, right now we have this bill. Question: Will it change the direction of change that we offer Poland in such a fundamental way? I don't think so. I don't think so. This bill is not an admission of error. Someone here said very nicely: this is a step aside. We will continue to reform and judiciary, and Poland as a whole organism... [[We've been waiting three years...]] ...and whether we do it right or wrong will not be decided by the European Union or the opposition, it will be decided by the nation by throwing the ballot in the urn. There's been a referendum recently. Maybe not a referendum, I said wrong. A mass survey of the public, because this is also the function of self-government elections, carried out on a full trial. The numbers speak for themselves. We're just gonna keep doing our jobs, no matter who gets in our way. And finally, last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Why are they bothering us? What's going on? Well, that's the start of 2 civilizations. Poland actually has in its genes that it respects the family... [[Yeah, in the genes...]] ...values based on religion, prefers the national state. [[Some people have...]] And those who now rule in Western Europe, unfortunately mostly, although nations wake up, do not have it in their genes, have the opposite values. And it's actually a civilization run. What tools are used, whether it will be the European Commission fixing to change, whether it will be a tribunal, it does not matter, because it always wins the truth. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u407	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today could actually be a quiet day in the Senate... [[He's here.]] [[Voice from the room: It's about to start.]] In the morning we were supposed to listen to the report, we had a few hours of discussion about everything, and now we have a little revision of the bill, which, in principle, was almost no critical vote, well, in any case there were very few, and again we are discussing everything, about the Constitutional Court, about various other things, to be honest, not very related to this law, and certainly not regulated by this law, which lies before us. By the way, the country on the left used the time to ask questions, and then the debate, to do a show here. Well, I have to say that when Minister Warchoł asked by one of you whether there were any plans for changes in other laws, let's call it a matter of justice, he mentioned some achievements, as well as some plans for reforming the system, the state was screaming, screaming, etc., even accusing him of violating good customs here. And I've been here for hours. Well, now it's getting a little quiet, because everyone's tired... [[Not yet!]] ...I hear the constant laughter, yes, the laughter, not the laughter, just the laughter, the screams... [[Hello, hello, I don't think so.]] ...interruption, etc., something that is completely out of line with the seriousness of this House. [[And the Minister is...]] Unfortunately, at the same time, we have seen a lot of things here that shouldn't have happened at all on the part of President Gersdorf. [[Oh, my God. And the minister's good?]] Well, I have to say that this subject, which here was the subject of a few questions from the Senators of Law and Justice, about what came out of her mouth, what I was personally shocked about... a lack of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal, which is declared by the President of the Supreme Court? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, trust is something that is attributed to people rather than authorities, but it does not appear here as Mrs Gersdorf, but as the President of the Supreme Court. Is there any lack of trust at all in this situation? And a few people pointed out that, regardless of whether the President of the Supreme Court has a duty or not to prosecute suspected regulations to the Constitutional Tribunal, he certainly cannot interpret whether something is constitutional or not. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to be a lawyer to know that there's a rule of presumption of constitutionality in law. Well, he's an elementalist. And the lawyers who are here, I'm sure they're nodding their heads that there's something like that. Until it is established that the Act is unconstitutional, it shall be deemed to be constitutional. And the only authority that can say that is the Constitutional Tribunal, not the Supreme Court, not the President of the Supreme Court, or anyone else. If it's something like this, I'm personally shocked, because it's just the president who joined the show that you guys did here. At the same time, although this did not concern the Prime Minister... Indeed, I was listening. But no one noticed that the President openly mocked the representative of the Polish Government, specifically the Minister of Justice, who did not come to the hearing in Brussels. Well, it doesn't suit that kind of person, especially then... [[Oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh!]] ...when he's invited to... Please don't disturb me. [[And the minister is fit?]] [[Calm down, please.]] It doesn't suit the person who stands before the Senate as president of the Supreme Court, not as a private person who can... explaining that he has a habit of being a professor at the university, he shortens his distance... Well, what kind of words are those? It's shocking to me when someone like that in a place like this talks like that. [[He doesn't know...]] She also talked about understudy. Then she kind of backed out of it or apologized, but not really. But basically You can say that to yourself, can't you? Ladies and gentlemen, you can't just do that. And going back to the law, because basically it is her that we should talk about, and not about all these other things, we have to say yes, again: this law is implementing the EU Court of Justice decision and basically nothing more. Simple. Why are we doing this? Because we feel, as Poland, a loyal member of the European Union. I pacta sunt servanda or Dura lex sed lex, as anyone prefers. Right? We're just in this community. And, as it happens, people sometimes don't like judgments, such ordinary courts, but they have to be executed, there's no other choice. And we're doing this not because we share the idea that it's wrong... It is simply what the community we are in, in which we want to be in, so we adapt. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like every law is either bad or good. There are just different variants. The same is true of the call for votes doubting the constitutionality of this solution, which has so far been in force. You don't need to share that view, but it's an expression of responsibility and care to cover at least a little bit of these horrible ditches that are between us. It is very good that it is said that not only because of the decision of the Court, but also because of those voices which doubt the constitutionality of this solution, we are changing this solution. That was constitutional, according to our best conviction, but this new one is also constitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, left-hand or right-hand traffic has no advantage at all in relation to the Constitution. You can choose. And we just chose on the right, but there are those who chose on the left. And both solutions are acceptable, aren't they? And this solution is also acceptable. It seems that the issue of our responsibility, the responsibility of the government and the political formation that I represent is that we just... Well, we agree, okay, we will. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, at the end... I understand that every opportunity is good enough to make a fuss and try to score some points in this fuss. And you're past it today, twice, like I said. Once in the case of the Ombudsman, and twice in the case of the Supreme Court. But in my opinion, This is the last thing I'd like to say. It would be worth considering whether this is not an opportunity to try to rise above emotions, rise above political or political ambitions and simply think about what is good for Poland today. I have no doubt that this amendment is good for Poland, both for the Supreme Court itself, to resolve concerns about the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the previous solution, as well as for our being in the Union. What are the arguments against this? There isn't one. Let's all vote together. It's not like any of us are serious about polexit. A vote against would mean some vote of distrust towards the European Court of Justice, which calls for these changes to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, even at some stage, without reading this provision, most people did not read it. We did not know certain things, it was Minister Warchoł who told us today that it was clearly written there that steps should be taken to make this an executional arrangement. And that's what we're doing. Nothing else. That's it. That's it. Let's be together for a while. I completely do not understand why your colleagues in the Sejm voted against. The Senate is a reflection chamber and I think that after reflection it is possible that, regardless of what we think about reforming the justice system in Poland by the political environment of Law and Justice, on this matter we can give a clear signal inside and outside that sometimes we can be together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As usual, I'll say it in a cost-effective way, I think I'll even finish up in time. I would like to see the countries who are so triumphant that there has been a ruling to protect the tribunal, to cool it down a little bit and put it upright on the ground, so that they look around and hit their chests. Ladies and gentlemen, this case concerns 23 judges. And how many cases were there in which, although not the Luxembourg Court, there had not been such cases against Poland before Only the Constitutional Tribunal stated... that at the time you ruled, you issued laws that didn't hurt 23 people, but 80,000 people. I would like to remind you, for example, of the absidal law from my term of office, when I was a senator, 2007. Provisions have been introduced that at least one day's work must be released to obtain the right to a pension. Otherwise, retirement was suspended. I've had the pleasure of running a case like this as a proxy. I wasn't a senator of the next term. Who previously, even as a senator, collected 30 signatures. Ladies and gentlemen, we have won the case and no one has been singing praise hymns for the benefit of the PiS, but at the same time condemnive for the Civic Platform. It could be said that it was even relatively quiet, but the legislator had to issue the laws that fixed the infringement, and had to pay people for 18 months, because so much has passed since the entry into force of this ridiculous law until the date of the amendment, which introduced the provisions on compensation for damages. Another case, ladies and gentlemen. I'm talking about the things I know from the autopsy. Excuse me, I'm an intern. A similar case, which also involved 80,000 people, namely the case of Zabużańskie property, this time from Strasbourg, the first pilot case against Poland. I had the pleasure of running this case. Well, ladies and gentlemen? At that time, no one condemned Poland and the people who issued laws that were contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. I wouldn't be so happy if I were you, but I admit it. And I think I have a moral title for it, that I unfortunately expected such a judgment. As you will look at my comments during the debate on this law, you will notice that I raised legal doubts about whether or not we are risking going too far, because the principle of expetition, i.e. the expected legitimate right to the operation of those judges who were appointed, until the 70th year of life, as well as the Constitutional principle of the six-year term of office of the President may be compromised here and this may cost us a bit. And that's what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no reason to gloat here. The fact that we are now taking a job to fix this, I believe, should be met with your acceptance. Of course, as with legislation, laws are never perfect. I see certain flaws myself, among others. relating to what I believe has already been mentioned here, that it is unjustified for those judges who find that they are not returning to the profession, to be paid 100% , not 75% Just like everyone else. Well, it seems unjustified and unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, the man who comes back to work will be working, and then he will retire here, called the beautiful retirement... Honestly, I've always had that term measured, but it's hard. This is the case in the laws on the system of the courts and on the Supreme Court. And the thing is, the guy who worked gets 75%. , and the one who didn't work, gets what you don't know The reward in the form that will be 100%. This seems unjustified to me, which is why I am making an amendment to these two articles. The point is to rule out this principle, it's not unreasonable to differentiate. Other issues, ladies and gentlemen, also need to be focused on the legal aspects. I know that it's always easier to talk about politics and to move arguments using higher terms and accusations than specifically. Legally. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that such a decision has been given in a protective manner obliges us to do one thing. - to comply with that judgment But it also obliges us to do something else that you are forgetting or saying is not necessary at all. Because another thing is to apply directly, i.e. to assume that these people are to return to functioning, and another thing is the derogation of the rule. There can't be a situation where they're gonna restore the relationship between these judges... Excuse me, vocations, for they, these 23, are called. They're not on the employment contract. ... And at the same time, there will be a rule that we find contrary to the principle that they will continue, because this is actually about continuing... Because so the law is formulated, that this is the continuation of their previous occupation, or functioning as judges of the Supreme Court. I ask you, who, like the undefined country concerned by the ruling, in this case Poland is a derogation from the rules on which we consider that they would be contrary to the ruling of the tribunal. Well, it's a simple rule. We apply here, as I say, to the principle of protection of acquired rights, i.e. this expetition. This leaflet was last approved in {MM/ YYYY} {MM/YYYY}. At the time of the appointment, the judges expected to function there until they were seventy years old, and here this age was reduced to sixty-five years old at the same time. And we also believe that President Gersdorf is still the President. I, I ask you to propose that we here as Poles agree on this and pass this bill, possibly with the amendments that I propose here. And I'm just wondering about that Senator's amendment... [[Voice from the room: Zientarski.]] ...the judge of Ziientarski, who believes that it would be possible to consider whether this age would be restored to 70 for all, i.e. also for those appointed after the adoption of this law on the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that in humanistic sciences, and especially in the law, which is a combination of humanistic science and craftsmanship, because that's what it looks like... The longer a man does this craftsmanship, the more perfect he does it. Therefore, as time passes, experiments and their kind of excellence are acquired. And we know of cases that are very often ruled by judges of age. I remember doing a legal internship in the United States and in Chicago we had a meeting with the judge, by the way, of Polish origin, master, nomen omen, Wachowski, but he had nothing to do with this Wachowski, whom we all know. And it was an old man of 90 years who ruled on family matters. And he had such incredible listening and respect that everyone would envy him. That is why I, ladies and gentlemen, call on us to hide our ambitions and our triumphant attitudes and to pass this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give up our ambitions, especially since I would like to remind you Last night was the beautiful anniversary of winning Lviv after World War I. There these young people, these eagles, sacrificed their lives. And all we can do here is sacrifice our ambitions, our party interests. Let's get over it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u411	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I loved this rhetorical figure of the senator, Counselor Silence, that anyone could stumble. There's a joke about how the police interrogate witnesses of the incident and they all say, "This man tripped and fell on a knife." What do the police ask, yes, but seven times? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] You tripped seven times on that knife. And you, Counselor, do you think this is all right? I don't think so. I don't think you've tripped seven times, you've stabbed seven times. And you can't explain to me that it wasn't. Senator Czerwiński said: how many times can you go back to a case that has already been decided, the presumption of constitutionality, the stability of the law... Then answer me, Senator: who has not published the judgments of the Court? Because what I said right now... You said that the presumption of constitutionality of the tribunal's judgments... Remind me who didn't publish one of the most important judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal for six months or a year. [[Those weren't sentences.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Calm down, please.]] I thought, Mr. Senator, if you were in any way serious... [[Voice from the room: We treat.]] ...we treat it, you won't want to say it now. Those were sentences. So, of course, such sophistication can be practiced. What's the point? There's gonna be a second person who's gonna say, "I'm checking." You said fascists. It's about this kind of marking of opponents. And the traitors are cooler? The Lord said that you're being used to stigmatize, so that I'm asking you... [[Sounds coming from a mobile phone]] [[Voice from the gym: What, a game?]] [[Voice from the room: Advertising went on...]] [[I'm sorry.]] How much is it, Marshal? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Seven minutes.]] Do we win or lose? [[Applause]] [[Room voice: 27 to 1.]] Stigmatism, Mr. Senator, is on both sides. Because to talk about the men who appealed to the European tribunals... Those were your words. And today Senator Radziwiłł says: well, we listen to what the Court has said. And you say, "Well, we go backwards because we listen to what the tribunal says." And as people referred to European tribunals, you said traitors. So don't tell me about the fascists. Senator Radziwiłł talked about the lack of trust in the Constitutional Tribunal, the fact that our party does not trust him. Yes? [[No.]] Yes. [[I was talking about President Gersdorf.]] It's about the president. [[And this is one of you?]] No, I'm sorry, I was wrong. You were talking about the president. What did you say about Rzepliński? That it's a politician, someone... [[The voice from the room: Well, it was.]] Oh, okay. So just one way It's working. It's so symmetry... It's not even symmetry. How did you make the Supreme Court laws? Remind me of all these brilliant, courageous arguments for having to be 60 or 65 years. It was equally brilliant to have only one nationality. So what are we supposed to tell our friends who are over 80? Well, you guys raised your hand behind it. What can we say about friends who have three citizenships? Is it possible in this situation to be a law in the Republic of Poland, and it cannot be applied? Come on, somebody tell me what the difference is. No one's gonna say. You guys are so great at talking about this bill, so I'll remind you... Because I started with a joke, and now I want to continue. Marshal Borowski spoke quite well too... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...about what your support looks like on the side, what happened here. I'll get back to the joke. There's a story about Kashpirowski, about how Kashpirowski approaches people and treats people with a touch. He walks up to someone who stutters and says, "Tell me." He comes to the lame man and says, "Go." And after a second, the one who stutters says, oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo-woo. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And that's your approach to the law. W-w-just fell over. You just don't know what to call it yet. You're talking about Minister Warchole. I don't remember who the Deputy Minister was anymore, but recently, a few days ago, the entire Internet has spoken... Unfortunately, I don't remember which of the vice-ministers of justice spoke directly... [[Voices from the room: Gócik, Gócik.]] Thank you very much. I didn't want to give you a name because I don't remember it myself, but they're telling me here that Minister Wójcik was talking about the first president, Mrs Gersdorf... [[The voice from the room: Oh, that's not...]] No, I'm sorry. I'm pulling out. Maybe it wasn't Minister Wójcik, but one of the vice-ministers spoke to the foreign television unknown to him, in the English language unknown to him in such a way that Mrs Gersdorf could enter the court or get out of court. He repeated that sentence not particularly complex a few times. And what do we have today? She can leave. Or maybe he won't come out? It is not my language error, it is my attempt to repeat the Minister's statement. Kim... he said about the first Supreme Court president that he's actually a private man. And you're saying today that he's a completely different person. Then who's making fun of it? [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal stopped watching what he was watching in front of me, and he's only gonna brand me for 10 minutes. [[I've been listening to you all along.]] Mr. Marshal... [[I've been listening to you for ten minutes.]] Mr. Marshal, I beg you, two minutes. [[No, no, Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: One more time?]] [[Voice from the room: Could be 10 minutes.]] [[We must abide by the law. Part of our law is the Senate Rules of Procedure.]] Mr. Marshal, everyone's been talking a little bit longer in front of me. Let me have those two minutes, but of course I can come back in a minute if you're a marshal... [[If you promise not to come back.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: That's why you're coming back.]] Mr. Marshal, because I like to call you Marshal, I'll be right back. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u413	That's what I was afraid of. Mr. Senator Borowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Put me in...]] [[Voice from the room:...I'll be back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I will refer to some of the comments that took place after I presented my view in this speaker. Of course, we're back to the old stuff again, but you can see the karma and you have to get back to it. Senator Czerwiński, referring to my doubts about the Constitutional Tribunal, to the fact that it must be the body to which you trust, because this function is in our legal system, in the country, he said: "Well, yes, and then, when the previous coalition voted 5 candidates to the Court, what, it built trust?'. I think I got your point correctly. Yeah, I think it's really bad. In fact, when I was in the Senate at the time, I did not support this solution. However, since the settlement of these cases I'm going to refer to a lot of speeches here again. It shall be the Constitutional Tribunal. A complaint has been filed against him. I'll remind you again. First through Law and Justice. We've been expecting a verdict in this case. After winning the election, the PiS stated that he no longer had to wait for the Court's judgment, because now he will order changes in the Court. However, that action was repeated and the Court delivered its judgment in that case. He gave the judgment and stated that two judges were chosen correctly and three were wrong. And now I'm abstracting from this... Because I know this discussion, and there's no telling what he'd say if it wasn't right now, and so on. But he said it. And that's his role in our system. It has not been respected simply and it is still upon us today. That's why, when we talk about lack of trust, it's because of that. That's one thing. Secondly, the presumption of unconstitutionality. Senator Radziwiłł developed the subject. Mr. Senator, if you'd accept... [[Constitutionality.]] [[Presumption of constitutionality.]] [[Constitutionality.]] I said unconstitutionality? Excuse me, the presumption of constitutionality. I meant "innocence," and that word doesn't start. Presumption of constitutionality... Mr. Senator, if you were to accept your reasoning, then in fact every bill would have to be referred to the Constitutional Court, that is, even if it is clearly unconstitutional, we are adopting it, because we have no right to say that it is unconstitutional and then to the Tribunal, which is the Sejm, the Senate, the President and yet the Court as... [[Presumption is about those that are already in operation.]] Oh, no, no, wait a minute. Well, no, we're talking about the adoptions, so if... [[No, I was talking about the approved ones.]] I do not know what you were talking about, I am talking about the laws that were passed here and to which there were a lot of constitutional reservations from the most important figures in Poland, from the Supreme Court, from lawyers, from lawyers, from prominent constitutionalists, from the Venice Commission Wherever you want. No, we will. And then we think he has a presumption of constitutionality. Well, Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna tell you: if you can lift the term of office of the Supreme Court president, why don't we pass a bill that interrupts the President's term of office? And I'll tell you more: she's probably gonna use the presumption of constitutionality because she hasn't gone through the Court yet. Yes? Let's not lead to absurdity. There are situations where there are constitutional doubts And that's what I understand. And there are situations where there are no constitutional doubts. I was setting an example with this unfortunate censorship. Well, if anyone wants to pass a bill like that, don't tell me that a bill like that has a presumption of constitutionality, because it leads to utter absurdity. [[Yeah, on the same principle.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Already? Yeah, I'm almost done. Madam President... It was said here that the President should not speak on constitutionality. As the first President of the Supreme Court, the President presented an opinion on these laws. That was the whole board's opinion. Right? Then how can she not speak? She views the bill and she states in her opinion that this law including this, and this article... [[Mr. Marshal, your clubmates are criticizing me for not being assertive enough.]] ...is unconstitutional. And finally, it's all at the end... [[Senator Borowski doesn't have any clubmates here.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Sympathists, sympathizers.]] [[He was a marshal candidate.]] But as independent. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I want to say this: in this project, in the explanatory statement, at the end, there is this sentence. That is, the law has a positive social impact. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] I'm very happy for you. I'm very happy for you. And what I'm saying is that the same phrase was in those laws. It has a positive social impact. So when we throw out the judges, it has a positive social impact, and when we bring them back, it does. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] And what I'm saying is... And what I'm saying is... [[It was a round of applause at the end.]] ...that this is the great achievement of the ruling team. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u415	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct. I was misunderstood.]] Okay, only the Minister will be speaking... [[But I just volunteered that I'd like to answer...]] Oh, good. Well, well, well. [[...in correction mode.]] Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is it now? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. [[If you don't mind...]] Please, of course. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u416	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. It's probably my fault. I'm not a lawyer, and I may have formulated it in such a way that not everyone understood, including Mr. Marshal. But I'm sure the blame is on my side, not on your side, because since you understand that I'm talking about presuming the constitutionality of the rules that we're working on, of course I agree fully with what you said. But the presumption of constitutionality concerns acts that are already in force. And it didn't take me long to find such a job on the Internet, where lawyers, better than me, write: "The presumption of constitutionality has a strong constitution, although the act doesn't express verbis. In the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, Article 1 shall first be indicated as the source of that presumption. 2 The Constitution and the resulting principles of a democratic rule of law and the protection of citizens' confidence in the State and its rights. [[That's the point.]] That's the definition. the presumption of constitutionality and its attachment. That's what I took from the article. I don't know if they're some great lawyers, probably. Aleksandra Dębowska and Monika Florczak-Wątor wrote such an article. And I think that's a rule that lawyers, not doctors, know very well. And of course that's all I had in mind when I said it was supposed to be constitutional. But the president I was referring to was talking about the file... [[But not absolutely.]] ...laws that apply, not those that are in preparation. Right? So if someone understood it differently, I'm sorry I wasn't precise enough. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Minister Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to such a slightly more relaxed atmosphere, where it rained and jokes, and quotes, I would also like to start by recalling our hangman Jan Kochanowski... [[Kochanowski wasn't a preacher.]] ...which reminds me a little bit of the situation we're in, where we're dealing with some kind of damage. This is what is known as: I'm happy with this rhyme: a wise Pole after harm; But if the truth and of this we are born, A new parable the Pole will buy, That also before harm, and after the harm of fools. Well, what I'm gonna say next is gonna be more serious, but I'd love to. I hope this will happen. So that from the experiences we have now, we all come out a little smarter, at least a little bit, both colleagues from the opposition and we here. We are talking today in principle almost all day in this House about the rule of law, because we have talked about it with the spokesperson and in the first part, and with the President in the second part, and we are talking about the rule of law around it. And that's very good, because the rule of law, I talked about it before noon, is a great, wonderful thing. But today this law is part of a dispute with the European Union, with our friends, I stress, and with allies from the European Union. We're in a dispute. But what is the essence of this dispute? What is the essence of the dispute with the European Union. Well, the first answer is the rule of law. In my opinion, Here maybe some of you won't agree. The rule of law is not the essence of this dispute. The rule of law is an instrument, a space in which we argue, in which this dispute is concrete. The dispute with the European Union is different, unfortunately more fundamental, this is an ideological dispute... [[Values.]] There's nothing to hide, it's a dispute about value. This is a dispute which, due to time, I will shorten, but I want to make it clear The essence is that from the point of view of the European elites of such a government as it is today in Poland, Europe should simply not be. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen... And let me illustrate that. I'm talking about our friends and allies, not our enemies. This dispute is not a dispute to the death, it is a dispute between friends. But just as we sometimes say among friends that we don't want you to, because it doesn't suit us, so, unfortunately, this argument in my opinion is of such a nature. I'm gonna use an illustration because there's no time to talk about it for a long time. Let's call up a picture of November 11, the Independence March, a quarter of a million people with white and red flags. [[And the green ones, too.]] For us, I think that here actually for everyone, and certainly for the great majority of Poles This picture, this ocean of white and red emotions, gives rise to positive emotions. I still can't talk about it without touching it. Among Europeans, and especially among the elites in Brussels... Because when it comes to people like that in Bavaria, somewhere in Italy, it's different. But among the European elites, among our friends this painting is either astonishing, surprising, as it is in today's modern It is possible for Europe, or even goes into a kind of horror, which is that they are some kind of demons of the past. That's how I see it. So there's a dispute, there's a major dispute that's going on in Europe. And the second argument is a dispute about the shape of the European Union. What is the power of the European institutions over national law? Can European tribunals directly abolish national laws and apply directly... This precedent, as I know it, is what we asked about today, and we also discussed it with the Minister. It is said that it has not yet been done, that the tribunal has not suspended the validity of the law directly. This is another dispute, a dispute over whether or not he has the right to do so. That is why the Polish government is not going to apply As you suggest, what do you expect? It is a temporary decision directly, but we treat it as a guideline or as a bond to make it the Polish legislature to change the law and to keep the law in force in Poland, which is established by the Polish legislator. Therefore, it does not apply directly to laws which are otherwise not the subject of the European Treaties, because, as I know, judicial rights are not directly the subject of the Treaties. Their object, yes it is called, is a certain sphere of value, the rule of law is this value, but As I've already said In my opinion, this rule of law is not the case. And if anyone's having second thoughts... Ladies and gentlemen, when was the judgment of the European Court given? A few hours before the end of the election campaign in Poland. Is it a coincidence, or is it evidence, or is it too much evidence, but the argument that the European Court is unfortunately also part of a political struggle? What I regret, because the institutions that should be outside the political dispute, both in Poland and in Europe, unfortunately, are involved in this political fight, the Idea fight, and the rule of law becomes a tool, an instrument, is instrumentalized, which is very bad and dangerous in my view. Now the government is doing this interim ruling of the Court of Justice, as the Minister put it, and such conviction has, I think, most of us on our side. Out of respect for European law, out of respect for the fact that... we do what we are ordered to do, even though we disagree on the substance of this ruling. This is not such a rare situation, it is often, extremely common situation at different levels, that the court gives a judgment or judgment with which we disagree, but we have no other choice but to submit. Then we're on our way to an appeal, and we're still trying to pursue our own. And the government announces that it will claim that we will defend our position before the tribunal, that the reform is lawful, that it is in line with European values. And I wish the government good luck in this dispute. Let's see how this ends. After this final decision it may be necessary to make another amendment of the law, this cannot be ruled out and there is nothing to joke about here, although these amendments are too much and this joke of Senator Pociej unfortunately is, let's say, witty. In any case, I wish the government to defend its arguments in this dispute, because I am convinced that this dispute is on our side. I'm a little sorry about that, and I'm a little sorry that in this dispute we're supplying our opponents with easy ammunition that they can shoot at us, and I'm talking, of course, about shooting arguments, not in a literal sense. The Minister isn't here... I wish you good luck, as I said, but I doubt, in truth, that the European Court will be able to defend this argument that the six-year term of office of the first President in the light of the Article, enshrined in the Constitution. 180 point 4, i.e. the one who speaks of the possibility of shortening the term of office legally, means, in fact, no more than 6 years. That's what's been said here. Well, I'm afraid we can't defend this against a European tribunal. Moreover, I am convinced that the government would not defend this against the Polish Constitutional Tribunal either. This PiS-owski, as you say, the state, the tribunal, which is not there, would have no other choice in my opinion than to acknowledge the unconstitutionality of at least one provision which is in the Supreme Court Act. But you didn't take advantage of it. Today I asked the president why. The answer I got, we heard it. The last thing I said also confirms in my opinion that this is not about the rule of law. The paradox is that if the Polish Constitutional Tribunal ruled about the unconstitutionality of this or another provision, it would show that the rule of law in Poland is functioning, and this would be a disaster for many political forces in Poland. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Okay, well, then I'm not gonna abuse... Besides, to tell you the truth, I don't really have any points. So that even thank you for stopping and goodbye. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u419	That's a good punch line, too. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Why this?]] It's a laptop. [[The voice from the room: He'll probably be reading something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During one of the debates on Poland that took place, one of the prominent European politicians said to the representative of the Polish government: you have rules, we have money. I would like to take a little closer look at this debate today. [[Voice from the hall: And that's the punch line.]] Here we hear that in Germany, the CDU Member has become a judge in the German Constitutional Court. And no one's surprised, it's a natural fact. I repeat, no one is surprised. [[There's a dispute...]] Recently, it turned out that there was a conference in Berlin at which Chancellor Merkel stated that: national states should now be ready to surrender sovereignty. End of quote. She found out later. It's gotta be given back. That, of course, respects the will of national parliaments. And it was a conference in Berlin devoted to the future of the European Union. The European Parliament in Strasbourg met on 14 November 2018 and a resolution was adopted, which I will allow you to read. This is a resolution of the European Parliament of 14 November 2018 on the need for a comprehensive European Union mechanism for the protection of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. And among others. What does this document, quite extensive, read about? The European Parliament regrets that the Commission has not yet presented a proposal for a comprehensive mechanism of the European Union for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, and calls on the Commission to do so, particularly by proposing an interinstitutional agreement on the European Union Pact for Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in its forthcoming non-legislative initiative to strengthen the enforcement of the rule of law in the European Union. We read further that Parliament calls for a comprehensive, sustainable and objective European Union mechanism for the protection of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights and stresses that such a mechanism is more urgently needed today than ever before. Come on. Parliament reiterates that the main elements of this mechanism proposed by Parliament in the form of an interinstitutional Pact for Democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights include annual evidence-based and non-discriminatory reviews assessing, on a level playing field, compliance by all Member States with the values set out in Article. 2 TSUE. The European report on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights must include and complement existing instruments, including the Justice Scoreboard, a media pluralism monitor, a report on combating corruption and peer review procedures based on Article. 70 TFEU. In addition, it calls on the Commission to consider combining its proposal for a regulation on the protection of the Union budget in the event of general rule of law deficiencies in the Member States, etc., etc. In a word, the European Parliament translates it into practice It calls on the European Commission to adopt regulations that will lead to annual reports on compliance with the rule of law, democratic values, freedom and freedom of the media in the Member States, including recommendations that if the Member State, with the deadline imposed, did not implement these recommendations, it would be appropriate to launch a mechanism for punishing such a country by limiting the resources of the EU budget that are intended for the country concerned. This mechanism responds to the fact that in Treaty proceedings, the Union or the European Commission does not have an instrument to intervene in the internal affairs of the Member States beyond what is enshrined in the Treaties. This is why a parallel mechanism is being created to provide the means to do so. And I think it is worth remembering, in the context of this discussion, those trends that are now emerging in the European Union, because we are actually dealing with the creation of certain governance mechanisms for the countries of the European Union that go beyond the limits of the Treaty obligations that these countries have agreed to by entering the Union or adopting treaties that change the system or the functioning of the Community. And from this point of view, we also need to look at our discussion today and at the fact that we are dealing with a certain policy, including international law, the use of international law for current political tactics and actions. I wouldn't rule that out. And that's why I asked the Minister of Justice. Before the European elections, it will be clear that the Court of Justice in Strasbourg either in the form of a security measure, either in the form of a judgment or in any other legal formula, it will decide that, for example. The National Judicial Council is in conflict with EU law, and will recommend the suspension of some provisions in this regard. Such a decision, as we have seen on the example of this security, can be made on a one-man basis. Well, let me remind you that this security decision was made on a one-man basis. Please note how this mechanism works. And that is why the authorities of the Republic of Poland, in my deep conviction, should have a long-term, thought-out and consistent strategy in talks with Brussels and all EU institutions. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u421	Thank you, Senator. The last one on the list is Senator Comfort. Complementary statement, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u422	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Bobko said he was finishing up because there's no summary. [[Time's up.]] And time's up, of course, Mr. Senator. I, coming out here, didn't have a summary either, but thanks to senator Jackowski's wonderful speech, who once gave us the second day of listening to Professor Rzepliński... Now thank you very much, Mr. Senator, because I actually have the punch line for all of this. From all you've said, Mr. Senator, it's true that it's not the rules that matter, it's the money. [[I didn't say that.]] Mr. Senator, that's what I think. I'm not saying you said that. I'm the judge of your speech. You were talking about the budget. And in what context did you speak? That the European Union has threatened and you are doing what you have always done, not because the rules are important, just because you are afraid that Poland will get ricocheted for your actions that have been thoughtless, meaningless and have led us to believe that we are in this Chamber right now, that you must introduce a law that is against everything that you have preached so far. And you do it in three days. Again. And that is of course horrible, because it is again this way of proceding, which Senator Zientarski was talking about more about. It's on your knees again. Senator Silence also said that he has reservations that there is something not quite good there. 'Cause how can you do that in one day... Mr. Senator, I was leaving for the Council of Europe meeting two days ago. I didn't even know it was going to the Sejm yet. I've been sitting for two days, I'm going back, and you're already doing things in the Senate. Well, are you saying there's anything serious about it? Not one way or the other... When you turned the order around, you couldn't do it properly, according to procedures, and right now, because someone in the European Union threatened you with a fist, you do it in three days. This is a scandal, and you know it very well, as well as I do. And I'd like to... I'm sorry, because I did seven times when you bombed the Supreme Court, and another ten times when you even bombed the rule of law in Poland. 'Cause you guys did, and I told you and I put forward legal arguments, 'cause I was quoting what our experts said, 'the legal opinions.' And you're not looking at it at all. It is no wonder that for the first time I will speak a completely different language. I've never done this before. And I want you to know about how... You have this attitude... 'Cause like we said, as the opposition said, it's not one of the senators. Excuse me, Senator Bobko. But no one took half an argument from you. In your statements, we were almost a Targowica who goes to the European Union to complain. Now what are you doing? I will remind you of this passage with fire and sword when Bohun is to stumble with Mr. Wołodyjowski, but they can't really bother him in any way because he is a messenger. And what's Zagłoba doing? Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! He said, "Oh, it's hard! Since you are a messenger, then we cannot arrest you, but with the sword do not turn your back on this bachelor, for you have fled before him once until the earth groaned. He didn't lose the pity of the bachelor until he touched you and gave you life. Tfu! My lord, you have a white-headed face, but you also have a white-headed heart. You were brave with an old kitten and a little kitten, but with a knight of pipes in the city, monsieur! And as long as the honourable gentlemen thought there were only a dozen parliamentarians, because you had the majority, you were brave. [[But like Brussels...]] But once Brussels fired... And you're talking about us, you're saying we're complaining? You're under Brussels' dictation! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u423	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u424	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say a few words, because I think there's been a lot of nice, nice, nice things here, and there's also a few quotes. I would like to draw the line in the spirit that Senator Radziwiel and Senator Silence were talking about. I personally didn't consult with my friends. I'm signing up for this idea. Okay, maybe it's worth doing this at the end of the term of office, Senator, so that we can be the House of reflection, so that we can have time for discussion, analysis and other things, because as senators we should have time and opportunity to conduct a thorough analysis of the projects submitted. Mr. Senator Silence, this is not a triumph. I didn't take it that way, nor did I intend to. If that's the way you feel about it, I am so sorry. I just want to say that if you're doing the things you've been doing so far... I understand it's history. That's what Senator Radziwill said. That you're doing here today, just like you did yesterday in the Seym, that it's already in the past, that it's not gonna happen. And we're signing off on it. We would like to see time for analysis so that representatives of the opinion bodies are invited to the committee meeting and that there is time for us to talk about it. But if it looks what it looks like, then don't be surprised. That's what Senator Olek said. But you have to fall on this knife seven times. But I take that as a good signal, a good coin, and hopefully today, when we vote on the bill, I will also take the floor under this Financial Supervision Act. The State will comply with this principle. I'm counting on it to be a test piece. We'll check your declarations. And finally, the question of what Senator Radziwił was talking about, the lack of trust, the fact that your president mocked. Since you don't have a president, we need to say a few words in defense of the president. I didn't take it that way. The president said he was absent... If someone took it as a guilt... [[That's exactly what it is.]] I don't know what to say. I'm not gonna say I'm sorry on behalf of the president because she didn't mean it. [[Definitely not.]] The lack of trust... After all, lack of trust is an element that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, can I have two more minutes... Mr. Senator Radziwill... [[Let's not disturb the senator.]] Mr. Senator Radziwiłł, I specifically address you by signing your distrust statements. Finally, the question of the report of this point. I am already overlooking the atmosphere in which he was held at the committee meeting, that he lacked opinions, etc., that is, everything that is repeated all the time in the case of every law. If the report is presented as sympatheticly, nicely as you presented Senator Mammoths, then I would like to say and quote here... Especially my favorite Mr. Bobko is quoting things, so I remembered too. And he dedicates it to what was the result of this sympathetic presentation by Senator Mammoth of the committee's report: "And laughter can sometimes be a science when it comes to badness, not of people shaking. And please understand that when a report is presented in this way, you can only smile or be nervous. We chose what is a smile. And if someone has been or feels offended, I am very sorry on my behalf and my colleagues, and I hope that from today we are starting a new hand of the parliamentary debate in the Polish Senate. As I said, the first element to be checked will be the draft Financial Supervision Act and I will ask you in the name of the agreement on an important element for which peace and agreement should prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u425	It's still the future. Mr. Senator Jackowski. In correction mode or 5 minutes? [[No, five minutes. I'm saving it for later.]] [[I suspect in correction mode, I'll be the one talking.]] [[Well, then, I'm in corrigendum mode.]] There you go. [[Short, short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great attention to the speech, the beautiful speech, the flowery, Senator Pociej. I would like to remind the High House and everyone who is watching us that Mr. Senator was in the movie Fire and Sword, he played one of the Kurcewicz Knazie, which was so tragic in literature, but so it was supposed to be in reality. He died at the hands of Bohun and his men. Mr. Senator, over here... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't wish that on you, of course, but I'd like to remind you of that. I understand that you are attached to a beautiful novel by fire and sword of our great, outstanding Nobel Prize-winning Henryk Sienkiewicz, but in order to place you in this quote, in this respect, in this literary context I would also like to remind you of this very valuable role that you played because you played excellently Kurcewicz's knazie respect for you. However, I wonder why you didn't understand my speech. You're an excellent lawman, you're a great speaker, a lawyer. I said it clearly, I quoted it. Maybe I'll remind you again. President François Hollande, who said to Prime Minister Beata Szydło in March 2017, the following words: "You have principles and we have structural funds." And this is the new quality we are talking about in the European Union. It's not like you put it here that we're doing this because we're afraid of losing European funds, it's because we're doing this because, among other things, we're doing it. The action of the opposition in the international arena has led to the fact that this mechanism has begun to be used against Poland. Moreover, in connection with some statements of some representatives of total opposition I begin to feel that the more Poland is stigmatized and double standards are applied to the Polish country, the more satisfaction you have. And I think that citizens in Poland should know that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's a declaration...]] [[Reconciliation ended with a voice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u427	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Stop the joy. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u428	Your Senate, the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 60th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court will take place on 23 November 2018, on Friday, immediately after the announcement of the break in room 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u429	I'm calling a 40-minute recess until 9:59. [[After the vote's adjourned, right?]] Yes. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 19 to 21 minutes 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u430	High Izbo, resume. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 12, 13 and 14 December 2018. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 996 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on compulsory insurance, the Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 974 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of financial market supervision and investor protection in this market. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 997 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission, at its meeting on 22 November 2018, considered the proposals made during the parliamentary debate and asked the High Senate to accept the proposal contained in point II, i.e. adopted the bill without amendment. In addition, the committee shall inform that under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 Senate Rules of Procedure Your applications have been withdrawn by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u432	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted conclusions to Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] I would like to say a few words because the Minister has presented the dry facts. If you don't mind, I'll say a few things. They are important, ladies and gentlemen, for your knowledge. In my view, this was a very good committee meeting, at which we have discussed for a long time. There were representatives of the Banking Guarantee Fund and KNF, former representatives of cooperative banks and associations. In my opinion and in my opinion, most of the committee members have been very good discussing the merits of the case. The matter we are talking about here... When we enter into the end of our discussion today, I would like to say that it is a matter that requires us, as a House of reflection, to answer the question of what is good for the economy and what is not. The situation today is, as you know... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] The situation isn't so good. Now it's about calming down everything that comes with the whole financial system. That's why I withdrew my proposal to reject the bill, because I recognize that I talked to my friends at the club about it. That many things in this law, or actually the vast majority of the law is good and acceptable. I therefore withdrew my proposal not to discuss rejection. That's first of all. Secondly, we discussed how to get out of a situation that is, in a socio-political sense, difficult. I'm being honest, like I said at the committee meeting. This is about Mr Smolinski's amendment, but not all of it, I would like to point out: Only in the part concerning the taking over of banks for gold. I have made this proposal, with which I also address you, the Senators of Law and Justice. I propose that we adopt the law in the version submitted by the government, with the amendments made during the session of the Sejm, but without an amendment on the possibility of taking over for gold. I propose that we, as the Senate, be those who will come up with a legislative initiative that is quick to move forward, because it is also a matter of time here. But in accordance with the whole procedure 3 readings, consultations... And, most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, in this amendment that we would consider as Chamber... And we would have taken a legislative initiative... My point is that the takeover process should be a transparent process, which is clear according to the rules that will be submitted, discussed. And not like now that this KNF can itself indicate which bank to take over and which it doesn't, which raises huge doubts. So there's no such thing as discretion. I personally believe that this possibility concerning various types of banking matters may take place, but it should be transparent and recorded in the bill, along the way... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] And the regulations that are needed for this law should also be an integral part of the draft of our initiative should be considered. And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, just for your information... This is very important when making decisions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know the senator already knows everything, and he doesn't need knowledge, but I'm gonna direct that knowledge to you. The following question was raised to the representatives of the BFG, the Banking Guarantee Fund: when did the fund take notice of the need to include in the draft law to take over the bank for gold? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, am I the kind of guy... [[But, Senator, please get to the point because we're in the middle of a vote.]] ...but I want to introduce... [[The discussion has already taken place. You're saying...]] But I want to introduce my motivation... [[There you go.]] ...which is a very important element. That's why... and BFG representatives and KNF representatives say that knowledge about this takeover process... It was thick, well-known before. Therefore, it is very, to say the least, inappropriate for Mr Smolinski to throw it in at the last minute. I therefore propose that this be a separate legislative initiative, and therefore I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Voice from the room: Is this an amendment or is there no amendment?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm already confused.]] Can I explain? [[There you go.]] Mrs. Marshal, I've tabled two amendments... conclusions. The first to reject the entire draft law, and this was the result of the discussion at the meeting of the budgetary committee I withdrew. [[I see.]] And the second is the amendment, which is about rejecting only what Mr Smolinski has said about taking over the banks for gold. And I suggest you... [[Voice from the Chamber: support this amendment.]] ...to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u434	Thank you, Senator. I remind you that the following applicants withdrew their applications: Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, point I in print No 997 Z; Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, point III, point 4 in print No 997 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 57 for, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the strengthening of supervision of the financial market and the protection of investors in this market. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 998 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1000 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 58 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. In view of... [[Voice from the Chamber: Against the vote of 26.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the results. 84 Senators voted, 58 for, 26 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1011 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 82 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the National Debt Register. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1015 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has decided to accept all amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u436	Thank you. Does Senator Robert Mammoth still want to speak? No. Thank you. I would remind you that the committee withdrew its proposal: paragraph 21 in print No 1015 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 eliminates parts of provisions that do not have no normative value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 correlates the content of the entry into the calculation with the content of the calculation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 for, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 3, 22 and 25 should be voted together. They shall include transitional provisions in the appropriate place in the structure of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendments 4, 8 and 15 will also be voted together. They shall include in the amended laws the institution of personal signature introduced in parallel by the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendments 5 and 18 will also be voted together. They eliminate language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 84 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 6 eliminates the provision concerning the provision for the appointment of a syndicate, which is a repetition of another regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] Thank you. The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 seeks to clearly indicate to whom, by what date and for what purpose the deputy syndicate will report. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 8 is already overruled. Amendments 9 and 16 will be voted together. They aim to ensure terminology consistency in the amended laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendments 10 and 17, voted together, eliminate inaccuracies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 11 sets out the provisions on declaring the provisions of the Supreme Court of First Instance concerning the cassation action in the appropriate place in the structure of the amended act, and eliminates the repeated regulation on the declaration of the waiver order without establishing the repayment plan for creditors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12 seeks to require a debtor who is not a natural person established in a bankruptcy application to indicate the NIP if he has had such a number in the last 10 years before the date on which the application was lodged. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 82 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 seeks to ensure that the objection to the omission of the claim in the list of claims includes information on the place of residence or the address of the creditor and his address, even if the creditor is not an entrepreneur. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] Thank you very much. Amendment 14 takes account of the fact that the provision concerns the inventory of claims and not the list of claims. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 is already overruled. Amendment 16, too. Amendment 17 has also been voted on. Amendment 18 also voted out. We are therefore voting on Amendments 19 and 24, which will be voted on together. They eliminate the provision amending the non-binding law on higher education. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 20 will rule out voting on Amendment 21. Good. Amendment 20 takes into account in the substantive provision of the Law on judicial bailiffs that the functionality of the electronic system, which will be carried out for enforcement and protection proceedings, will also be the keeping of accounts for the lodging of letters in proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 22 was voted in conjunction with Amendments 3 and 25. Amendment 23 adds a missing adjustment provision that removes the Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 24 has already been voted with Amendment 19, and amendment 25 with Amendments 3 and 22. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the National Debt Register. Thank you very much. And we are back to discussing item 11 of the agenda: the law amending the law on proceedings before administrative courts. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1008 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] In the light of the above, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Procedure in Administrative Courts. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 991 A and 991 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no one was against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on debt restructuring of farm operators. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 1001 A and 1001 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 24 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 995 A and No 995 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the amendment of the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No. 992 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 removes the possibility of applying for a personal ID card with a personal signature for a person under the age of 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 corrects the amendments made to the National Court Register Act as regards the use of personal signature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 deletes a word that is unnecessary for linguistic reasons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 4 ensures consistency of regulation by postponeing the date on which the Minister responsible for Home Affairs starts to perform certain duties of 1 March to 4 March 2019. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints 1010 A and 1010 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1002 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on National Economy and Innovation proposes that amendments No 1, No 2, No 3, No 4 be rejected and adopted without these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u438	Thank you. I would ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u439	A minority of committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. 2, which aims to ensure that the elders make mandatory decisions about immediate feasibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u440	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the other Senator Grzegorz Pekkis want to speak yet? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 4 should be voted on together. They delete the provision imposing immediate enforcement on decisions allowing entry into other people's property for the purpose of servicing the installation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 against, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] I therefore conclude that Amendments 1 and 4 have been rejected. Amendment 2 reduces the obligation to use green vehicles. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 55 against, and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3 covers a share of the energy sold before the entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 was voted with Amendment 1. [[Voice from the room: The same...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u441	I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u442	Good. Thank you. There's no objection. [[Voice from the room: At a good time...]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[There's been some confusion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you voted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I'll give you the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. Thank you. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 1003 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 1006 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 52]] I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 999 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u443	Dear Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, The joint committees propose that you accept amendments 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7 and reject the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u444	Thank you. Does Senator rapporteur Piotr Florek or the other Senator rapporteur Andrzej Stanisławek still want to speak? No. Thank you. We're coming... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, once again, because there is a certain doubt: Amendments 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7 accept.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Number six, too?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to focus, ladies and gentlemen. It's late, so please be quiet. [[Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the committee proposes, but there is also an indication that is different from the committee.]] Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 harmonises the terminology of the law with regard to the procedure for the opinion of the draft municipal low-carbon programme. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 will rule out voting on Amendment 3. Amendment 2 aims to introduce the same rules for co-financing low-carbon projects from the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund regardless of the number of inhabitants of the city. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 26 for, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 2 was therefore rejected. Amendment 3 completes the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 eliminates the rules governing the reimbursement by beneficiaries of the costs resulting from the breach of the obligation to maintain the effects of low-carbon projects after completion of the agreements and in the case of a transfer of ownership of the building or premises in which the low-carbon project was carried out. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 26 for, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 4 was rejected. Amendment 5 limits the remuneration of the notary for drawing up a notarial statement by the beneficiary of the execution directly from that act in the event of the obligation to reimburse the costs of the low-carbon project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted in favour, 81 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] I therefore conclude that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 6 amends the guidelines for issuing a regulation by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs setting out a model for a statement on the assets held by the beneficiary. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 31 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] I therefore conclude that the amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 removes the impreciseness of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 for, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] I therefore conclude that the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 81 votes in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 990 A and No 990 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1004 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 83 votes in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution, including requesting that this law be adopted without amendments; Senate printing No 993 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 60 voted in favour, 4 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act on financial support for audiovisual production. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1005 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 Senators voted 79 in favour, no one voted against and one abstention. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the above, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on financial support for audiovisual production. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1009 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1, 2, 5 and 6 are voted on together. They prejudice that having full legal capacity is a condition for appointment to a position set out in the law, and for the cessation of compliance with that requirement. The grounds for appeal from these posts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 3 removes doubts about the scope of personal data of players processed by the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 66]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 ensures linguistic correctness. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 75 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 67]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 5 and 6 have already been voted on, including the first and the second. Amendment 7 deletes the reference to the no longer applicable law on the principles of funding for science. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 68]] Thank you very much. The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the act on combating doping in sport. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Central European Institute Act. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 994 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u445	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, i.e. the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, have examined the proposals submitted during the debate on the Central European Institute and both committees request the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u446	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u447	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here are three valid arguments for rejecting this law. It introduces duality in foreign policy by assigning the Institute to the Prime Minister, and practically the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. It contains inappropriate and harmful HR solutions against the wounded Institute of Central and Eastern Europe, i.e. the so-called. silent termination in this 2-month procedure, whether or not accompanied by a job proposal. It was also today that the Ombudsman strongly condemned here. In addition, it introduces low minimum requirements for a candidate to be a director of the institute. That's enough to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u448	Thank you very much. Do the other Senators still want to speak? The rapporteurs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union were Senator Alicja Zając and Senator Tomasz Grodzki. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, in the event of rejection of the proposal, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on this amendment will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 57 votes against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] I believe the Senate has rejected the minority's motion. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Central European Institute Act. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1012 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 82 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1013 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 83 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. It's late, and it's a little distracting. We would like to return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1014 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the law on amending the Copyright Law and Related Rights Act and the Database Protection Act. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1020 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the above, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1019 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Mamytkov, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting today, the Commission considered the proposals made during the debate on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u450	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I?]] Yes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting today, the Commission considered the traditional proposal by Senator Martynowski to not consider any amendments and to adopt, without a doubt, a law without amendments. The minority of committees did not agree with this for two main reasons. Firstly, she felt that this law had to be rejected. According to both the authors of such a minority request and many experts, a security should be applied The TSUE directly. Such a solution makes it impossible for a judgment to be brought before the TSUE. There is a guarantee that the statutory arrangements for the Supreme Court before December last year are granted a lack of error. I would like to remind you that these solutions have been put into practice on several occasions and have also been subject to 8 judgments by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice. It is therefore a guarantee that these solutions do not go beyond the legal standards, including, as the authors themselves write, constitutionally. Moreover, such a solution also protects against a possible eighth change of government position in the course of the presence before the tribunal, which is likely to take place. It is also important that from the common courts, but also administrative courts, questions were referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling concerning another area of reform of the law in Poland. In this context, the adoption of this position, the position of minorities, will open the legal situation around the Supreme Court. This is the first request of a minority A motion to reject the law. I ask you to accept this request, because no one forgives a rookie. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, bravo!]] The second minority request in the same squad, but plus one of the senators... [[It's not the same lineup.]] ...enlarged by one of the senators of the right hand, it speaks of the need to adopt 10 amendments in case there is no recognition of the motion to reject the entire bill. These 10 amendments make up 4 which are obvious, as they aim to improve... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...editing the bill and clarifying it. During the committee's work, none of the senators commented on these amendments proposed by the legislative department. [[Because they weren't considered.]] Other amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The most important of them, Amendment 2, restores the temporal cesarea of the transition of the Supreme Court judges to rest, i.e. 70 years of age, so it will be like before last year's change. The second amendment of the minority on enlarged membership, I would say, pluralistic... [[More?]] ...that's Amendment 4. It's proposed that... Excuse me, these are Amendments 5 and 6. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is proposed to abolish, actually, the introduction of... There is liquidation of a rule which first forced the transfer of judges by age, reducing this age and then gave them the privilege of increasing their salary to 100% So they can move themselves. Further amendments actually restore the right of the first President of the Supreme Court to declare in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland the number of free judicial posts provided for in individual chambers, the number of vacant seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The last amendment is probably the one that says that if proceedings have been conducted concerning judges of the Supreme Court, either in the National Council of Courts or in other judicial bodies, they are not to be interrupted by the law. So, High Izbo, we stand... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...we're facing a dilemma... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We've got time.]] Please? [[There you go.]] We are faced with a dilemma, whether we risk further errors before the tribunal, or whether we will return to the proven condition of the previous with legal and constitutional guarantees. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u452	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń and Senator Bogdan Klich. Senator Zientarski. Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm short. Why do we support the motion to reject this law? Firstly, the decision of the vice-president of the European Court provides an essential basis for the restoration of these judges, i.e. the result of the decision itself, and therefore the act is redundant, is superfluum. Secondly, it is an unsuccessful attempt to legitimize the end of the first term of office of the Supreme Court President, who has never been interrupted by the Constitution. There's nothing to say about the constitution, and there's still a constitution here! And we can't put our hands on some misguided attempt to legitimize It's true, isn't it? Unconstitutional term. That's two. Thirdly, there are two completely new shaping issues in this law that have nothing in common: nothing in common. With the decision of the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. They have nothing in common, which means they're making an immoral proposal... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...what your first Supreme Court President was talking about. Yes, an immoral proposal to even say political corruption. [[A voice from the room: Well, for you...]] [[Voices from the room: Thick, thick!]] Why? You weren't here, you don't know! [[Listen to the specifics! Listen to the wise one!]] Well, listen up. Then listen to me. You don't know what you're voting on. [[They don't have a lawyer...]] [[They may not understand.]] There's been a situation of this kind... [[One vote for the other.]] Besides, your senator has tabled such an amendment, Senator Quiet... [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] ...which you rejected, too. The thing is... this immoral proposal is that judges who have the right to be... that is, they've been restored by the original order, they're bribed by the proposal that they get 25%. more, i.e. 100% salaries, while Article. 56th Supreme Court Act says the judge at rest gets 75%. In short, the returner will not only work, but will receive 25% for punishment after retirement. less. Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[And how much is that?]] Here you go, it's a few thousand zlotys. [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: Oh, that's a lot.)]] Yeah, it's a few thousand zlotys, 25%. , yeah. [[And how much did you lower...?]] [[How much are you gonna charge us?]] And four... And fourthly, under the pretense of restoring, as I said, the facts... [[It was five o'clock.]] No... Well, maybe... No, four. [[Five.]] Mrs. Marshal, please... I want to say it calmly. The age of retirement of the Supreme Court judges is reduced and two categories of Supreme Court judges are introduced: those who will retire after the age of sixty-five and those who will do so after sixty-five years of age. However, general court judges will be able to apply for an extension of service until they are seventy years old. And so far, the rational legislature has always believed that the Supreme Court judges have the right to work the longest, for up to seventy-two years of age. For these reasons, we strongly bring you as an applicant I say this on behalf not of my own, but on behalf of Senator Klich and the Senators who have signed the proposals for amendments to the Act to reject it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u454	Good. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Ziientarski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 24 against, 58 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 76]] I therefore conclude that the senator's request was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 26 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 60th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. There isn't? I inform you that none of you... [[Voice from the room: I signed up.]] Good. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of you like to speak? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, Due to the inspection carried out by NIK of the construction and use of the city stadium in Wroclaw, which revealed irregularities for the amount of PLN 313 million 466 thousand, point 3 of the information on the results of the inspection of NIK with the registration number 183/2014/P/13/187/LWR Act VI Ds. 36/15 and VI Ds. 60/15, in the District Attorney's Office in Opole from the notification of NIK and councillors of the Zacisze Housing Council Zalesie, a.k.a. Szczytniki in Wroclaw. These councillors have informed me that these proceedings are extremely long-term, and so far there is no settlement in this matter. There is therefore a real danger that even if charges are brought against those responsible, there may be an end to criminality. At the same time, I was informed that the case was still pending by the same prosecutor who had already refused to initiate proceedings in May 2015, despite 15 allegations made by NIK in the information on the results of the audit. This may raise serious doubts as to the determination of this prosecutor to clarify the case under discussion here. I know that there have been requests by the Councillors to take direct supervision of this procedure, as well as to change the prosecutor conducting the last letter of 2 April 2017. But it's not working. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions urgently. 1. At what stage is this the case at present? 2. Please justify why the Minister did not take this procedure into direct supervision, requested by the councillors, since the losses of the budget of the municipality of Wrocław calculated by the controllers of NIK amounted to PLN 313.5 million? 3. Why didn't you recommend the Minister, on this scale of the irregularity, to hand this case over beyond the Wrocław appeal to ensure the prosecution's unfettered action on this matter? 4. Did you order the Minister of Control for the duration of this procedure? Please report their results. 5. Whether during the proceedings the prosecution, CBA or tax services were ordered to investigate the corruption thread, including the checks on the assets of persons responsible for the significant irregularities identified by NIK consisting in failing to fulfil the duties of President Wrocław, the employees of the Municipal Office and the municipal board of Wrocław 2012 Sp. O.O., since N.I.C. was also concerned about possible corruption mechanisms? 6. The contractor of this investment, Max Bögl Bauunternehmung GmbH & Co. KG and Max Bögl Polska Sp. z o.o., he did not pay Polish subcontractors for construction works. I therefore ask you to indicate whether and what measures have been taken in this regard. Dear Minister, due to the scale of the irregularities documented in the information on the results of the NIK audit, I believe that the intervention of the Minister in this matter is necessary and indicated. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-23-senat-67-3.u456	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Sixty-seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] We did it. Thank you. [[Meeting adjourned at 23 minutes 10]]
