ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Piotr Olszówka, Łukasz Schreiber, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Monica Wielichowska to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Monika Wielichowska and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Carrot and Łukasz Schreiber. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u2	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the following Commission: - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - immediately after the end of the meeting convened at the time of the meeting. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the votes, i.e. about an hour. 6:30. I would also like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 9, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 11, - Parliamentary Chess Team - hour 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We move on to the first question put by Bogdan Rzońca, Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Andrzej Matusiewicz from Law and Justice. The question on the Natura 2000 plan The Bieszczady PLC 180001 is addressed to the Minister of the Environment. And I would ask you very much to ask Mr Bogdan Rozniec's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u4	Thank you very much, Marshal. In fact, we are talking about Bieszczady, a place very interesting, specific, attractive in Poland, about a place which, before World War II, was very numerously inhabited by the population, and after World War II, due to various kinds of actions Bieszczady were deserted, but also some kind of property of people who have been there for years remained. By the time we started learning how to protect nature, people in Bieszczady knew how to do it. They don't need to be taught it, they know it, because the great-grandfather had it with them. They lived in harmony with nature, cherished this nature beautifully. Meanwhile, today we have a huge problem. It will probably end with some trip from the Bieszczady people to Brussels to demonstrate this problem. It turns out that the owner of the house, the plot he has, can be said, within his grasp, can do nothing in certain situations, build anything, e.g. A daughter, a grandson can't build a house because there are plans to protect nature. These conservation plans simply block the development of Bieszczady. I want to say very clearly that this is one thing that people who have been in Bieszczady for years, for generations, have a problem, but there are also people who have bought parcels in Bieszczady. They were sold by a state-owned company called Agricultural Property Agency. She sold them to them with information that they could carry out business on these plots, and it turns out they can't. There can be no state in the sense that if the State, the Agricultural Property Agency, now KOWR, sells such parcels, it simply deceives the buyer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my question: Is there a will of the Polish government to help people who have lived in Bieszczady for generations who know how to protect nature? After all, the earth's compensation mechanism, or compensation for certain natural species, is known all over the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u5	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u6	Is there a will here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u7	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Gentlemen! I don't think anyone here is questioning the fact that the people of Bieszczady, the citizens, are well protected by nature, and they've known what's going on for years. I'm sure no one wants to teach them that. I also think that the issue of nature conservation in Poland is a topic about which we all know that it arouses great emotions. Most are in favour of nature conservation, but the closer our habitat is to the proposed forms of nature conservation, the more worried about the limitations that follow. It's natural, and I understand that, too. All the more so, I think that it is good that you are bringing this up and asking the question, because citizens have the right to know where certain decisions come from and what they themselves have the opportunity to take part in making or ultimately drawing up a plan. I think that when discussing the plans of Nature 2000, it is worth recalling those issues that illustrate why protection plans are created in Poland, including in Bieszczady. It is worth recalling that together with Poland's accession to the European Union, we have accepted certain obligations in relation to compliance with legal regulations, including those concerning Natura 2000 areas. Secondly, Polish law, and here specifically the Nature Conservation Act, indicates that the Minister is setting up a conservation plan, guided by the need to maintain and restore to the proper conservation status of all natural habitats and species of plants and animals for which the area has been designated. Some of these habitats and species are also found in private areas or land. These plans also refer to spatial development, so it is not so that they are contradictory. They must take into account land-use issues, must take into account the location of possible buildings without damage to protected areas, technical infrastructure, communication infrastructure, tourist infrastructure, education infrastructure, as well as deforestation of forested or unforested areas. The plan includes not only the conditions for maintaining and restoring the proper state of protection, but also - and I think that in the context of this question is This is very important - the conditions for maintaining the integrity of the area and the coherence of the network of areas should be included. Therefore, the exclusion of part of the area, even if it were to be private land, is incompatible with Polish and EU regulations. This could also lead to the degradation of natural habitats or the disappearance of species. Of course, the Regional Environment Director in Rzeszów, responsible for the project created, who also supervises the protection of this area - just like every Director of WDOŚ in Poland - must be aware, and I think he is aware that there are specific expectations, needs and concerns of the local community. It should seek and, as far as I know, seek to reach a compromise and draw up a document which, on the one hand, will be acceptable to the inhabitants and, on the other hand, will ensure the real protection of valuable natural habitats or plant and animal species found there. It's obviously not easy. We have conflicting interests here. Work on the plan started in 2014 and they are still ongoing today. So I think it is difficult to point out the binding shape of the solutions that have been developed, but there is a will on the director's side to bring about this compromise and to correct these social tensions. The point is that if certain things cannot be accomplished according to the expectations of the inhabitants, explain what these limitations result from doing certain tasks. I hope this works. Of course, the Ministry is at the disposal of the residents. These writings also affect us. We are kept informed of all doubts that arise. We are also in contact with the Director of WDOŚ, obliging him to take a particularly sensitive approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Together with Mr Rzońcka, as local government officials of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, we have been dealing with this problem since 1998. The Member was a marshal, I was the chairman of the Seymour. We made intentional resolutions, e.g. on the construction of a ski station on the mountain Big Jasło in the municipality of Cisna. The positions of the subsequent directors of WDOŚ have always been negative in relation to this type of investment. On the other hand, the local government of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship has developed a development strategy for Bieszczad, which gives opportunities - unfortunately only theoretical - to build sports, tourist, agrotourism and recreational infrastructure. There's practically no such thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause all those opinions are negative. The investment process cannot be implemented because all these decisions cannot be valid. So we're thinking - and that is the opinion of the residents - that these regulations should be amended. It is not so in other countries of the European Union that in these areas no such activity could be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u11	Well, thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u12	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u13	Please respond to Minister Małgorzata Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u14	The statement that WDOŚ was opposed may be misunderstood, that maybe not so much WDOŚ was against, as Polish or EU law lays down certain conditions. The director of the Regional Environment Directorate is the guardian of this law, and he has some things... It's not his will. It's his written lines. However, I would like to emphasise what I have already said: the preparation of this project started in 2014 and this is ongoing. As part of the work on the project, the contractor of the plan, in cooperation with the Rzeszów DGOS, took steps to identify the sites that could be built without damaging the Natura 2000 area. It took into account the social aspect, because a dialogue was undertaken with the municipalities and residents to create a concept of housing that would meet their expectations and, on the basis of conclusions and discussions, a concept was developed on these sites for development. It seems to me that the starting point for the final solution should be the arrangements that were developed during meetings with the municipalities, and spatial development plans should be taken into account. I understand that it is obvious that the local community takes care of its own property, but as I said in reply to the first question, we are obliged to comply with EU law, we are obliged to do so - if certain habitats, plant species or animals have been identified there - to protect the nature interest, which is national capital. Therefore, under the plan, based on the Nature Conservation Act, the conditions for the location of buildings will be shown in the Natura 2000 conservation plan. This is the compromise that I hope will be achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the next question, formulated by Arkadiusz Myrch, Paweł Olszewski and Walda Dzikowski from the Civic Platform, on the current legal status and possible return by the State Treasury of the Czartoryski family palace in Sieniawa - to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u16	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question arose from recent information in the public space concerning the palace in Sieniawa related to the position taken by the Ministry of Agriculture a few months ago regarding the status of the palace itself. As we remember, as a result of the 1944 reforms, the State became the owner of this property. Then it was recovered or not recovered by the rightful owner, Prince Adam Karol Czartoryski, as would have been the result of media reports. At the same time, we are informed that this palace, which was recently owned by the State Treasury, was refurbished for a very large amount of money - the amount of PLN 120.130 million is reported - and the information mentioned at the outset from the Ministry of Agriculture about the legal status of this property and possible claims from the original owner appears. In response from the Ministry, we heard that Prince Czartoryski, or the Foundation of Princes of Czartoryski, gave up these claims in the agreement described in the notarial act of December 2016, while this agreement concerns the movable property in the palace of the former Sieniawska Order and does not constitute anything concerning the property itself and the possible waiver of claims. That's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this respect, we ask the Minister to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u17	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Seym! The historic palace in Sieniawa will remain the property of the State Treasury. Thanks to the purchase by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of the collection of Princes of Czartoryski, the palace and park complex in Sieniawa will remain the property of the State Treasury. Purchase transaction of the Czartoryski collection of December 2016, in addition to Leonardo da Vinci's painting, 86 thousand. museum objects and 250,000. library facilities also covered claims of the heirs of the Czartoryski family for real estate, including the historic palace in Sieniawa valued at over PLN 22 million. Media reports on the fact that Czartoryski may now demand reimbursement of the refurbished state property money are false and testify to another manipulation of this medium on the purchase of the Czartoryski collections. The agreement concluded between the State Treasury and the Foundation of Princes of Czartoryski and Adam Karol Czartoryski in December 2016 also covered reprivatization claims to the palace and park complex in Sieniawa. That's how the Treasure works. The States will not bear any costs for the transfer of ownership of the team and shall not be obliged to pay to the heirs of the palace. Here I would like to point out that the contract was concluded with the foundation and with the prince, because not all things belonged to the foundation - some were the direct property of the prince. The decision to purchase the Czartoryski collection, including the park and palace complex in Sieniawa, allowed to avoid the return of this property and thus - the loss of huge public funds, as happened for many other properties recovered recently as part of the reprivatization. On 28 June 2013, the Podkarpackie Voivodeship issued a decision showing that the park and palace complex in Sieniawa was not covered by the decree on agricultural reform of 6 September 1944. Due to the public money transferred to the renovation of the palace, as well as its historical value and the ongoing reprivatization proceedings since the 1990s, on the occasion of the acquisition of the Czartoryski collection in December 2016, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński made sure that the palace and park complex in Sieniawa was owned by the State Treasury. In the light of settled case law, which indicates that the reprivatisation claims resulting from the decree for agricultural reform - as administrative claims - cannot be effectively waived, and that such claims cannot be traded, agreements have been concluded between Adam Karol Czartoryski, the Foundation of the Princes of Czartoryski and the Treasury. Under the agreements in the event of reprivatisation, the transfer of ownership of the team to the Treasury or indicated by the State Treasury is a legal person. As a result, the public property of the team is confirmed, and any reprivatisation claims are ultimately extinguished. The decision of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the Sieniawa Palace and Park Team, which maintained the decision of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, was issued on 5 December 2017, and therefore the condition laid down in the above agreements has been fulfilled. Their implementation is completed, the necessary formalities are to be completed within a few months. In the perpetual books as the owner of the property in Sieniawa the State Treasury is indicated, while the team - without change - is at the disposal of the National Agricultural Support Centre, the former Agricultural Property Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u19	Thank you, Minister. And I would ask you to ask an additional question by Paul Olszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for these explanations. In the first sentence, you said that the palace team would be the property of the Treasury and there are no risks, but these doubts arise. If you could quote a specific provision of a notarial act that would prevent Prince Czartoryski from taking ownership again, it would be once. This is particularly important in the context of the whole transfer of funds transaction, gigantic measures for the Czartoryski family for a collection, where there was no slightest justification, because there was no risk that this collection could leave the territory of the Republic of Poland and, above all, be sold. It was at your very request that the provisions of the agreement which introduced this possibility were changed, thus giving the sumpt [[♪ The bell ♪]] to this at least opaque transaction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u21	Thank you. Please, Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! The transaction was as transparent as possible, from the beginning to the end. This was checked by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which is under the direction of a person whom the previous government has already designated. Already the day after the transaction was carried out, the auditors came in, who controlled absolutely everything that was related to the transaction for 3 months, and found no deficiencies that would have any significant impact and had to be explained e.g. By the D.A.'s office. That's one thing. Second thing. It was not at the express request of the Minister of Culture that this situation happened, but at the express request of the entire community of museums and conservators, all political options supported it, and there is no doubt about it, because the directors appointed by the previous government, including the directors of the National Museum in Cracow, supported - and publicly, and in the form of petitions - the purchase of this collection, and professors. We have a full list of names, and you can read it, and I can send them to you in writing, too, if that's your wish. Couldn't this collection have gone away? She could have left. It was possible to freely change the statutes of this foundation, and in the statutes it was possible to write down the way in which this collection was available. The owner could close the foundation at any time and take the goods, because it was his property, he himself was the founder, Prince Czartoryski. There was no doubt here. For many years this collection has been leaving many times. There was no possibility of legal protection. It has already been explained, Prime Minister Gliński has already explained this in very detail during the debate on the vote of mistrust that has taken place recently. Therefore, the only possible form of protection was private property, because from private property no one will disinherit us unless you return to power and do what you always do, which means you will sell these goods, because you will not have enough money for something again. On the other hand, as regards the provision, as regards the article that you mentioned in the notarial act, I will, of course, give you the answer in writing to that question, because at this point I do not have a notarial act in front of me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u23	Mr. Marshal, by way of exception, just a moment longer... One point on transparency of transactions. Mr Myrcha and I asked the Prime Minister for a number of documents relating to this transaction before the May weekend. On the 8th of May, we were to receive specific documents...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u24	Okay, okay, sir, I'm sorry, but this is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u25	Until now, we do not have them, so in order to ensure this transparency, please send us a message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u26	Okay, the rules are clear. Time's up. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much, gentlemen. We move on to the next question put by Mrs Elisabeth Zielińska from Kukiz15. The question about calls for payment sent to citizens by the receiver of the bankruptcy estate of the SKOK Piekary Śląskie - to the Minister of Finance. Here you are, Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question just about these calls for payment. The Syndicate now demands 94 PLN from citizens. On the other hand, it is not only sent to those who consciously were shareholders of SKOK Piekary Śląskie, but also to those who paid just a few years ago one bill. There are a lot of doubts about the ethical attitude of the SKOK, because it is sent to people who were not shareholders, knowingly they never even wanted to become shareholders at all. Some of those who received these calls for payment crawled in the SKOK loan to others. The call for payment was also received by persons whose spouse, the deceased spouse, once paid the bills, but those persons also had nothing to do with this SKOK. Many of these people are pensioners, these are people who have limited financial opportunities. There are also a lot of questions about the 950% increase, which took place on 30 June 2015, the increase in the purchase of shares. According to the statutes of the SKOK, persons who have not completed this value, i.e. the amount of PLN 94, should be deleted from the list of shareholders, while they have not been deleted. The insolvency syndicate Mr.Jarosław Reszka already says that those who receive calls and do not pay will have to pursue their claims in court. However, it is worth to say that a few years ago even the employees of these cash registers informed that repayment of the loan or payment of the deposit automatically means the loss of membership and many of these people were convinced that they were no longer members of the SKOKs. At this point, they receive requests for payment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question about how the Ministry controls the SKOKs, how the government will intervene on these unfair calls for payment and whether the government is planning legislative changes in the functioning of the SKOKs, because every now and then another SKOK falls, the same mechanisms are repeated, i.e. mechanisms to extort money from people to pay the SKOK debt.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u28	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question about SkOK Śląskie Piekary... This is one of the several cases that we observe, which is related to the fact that the legal situation of the members of the cash register is specific, unique. I will start by thinking about the legal situation of people who are in a relationship with syndicates such as the Silesian Piekary. We also observe the actions of the insolvency syndicate SKOK Ark in relation to the members of the cash register. First of all, it is worth remembering that the syndicate, in accordance with the bankruptcy and resolution laws, shall report to the Commissioner within the time limits set, or at least every 3 months, on its activities and on the accounts in advance. On completion of their activities, the syndicate and its deputy shall submit a final report on their activities and subsequent accounts. The Commissioner's judge has the right to reprimand the Syndicate and his deputy in connection with the negligence of his duties. He can impose a fine. The Commissioner-General may revoke the syndicate if he fails to discharge his duties properly. So we're dealing with a direct authority to respond to the syndicate's actions, which is the Commissioner's judge. This is the most important instrument, one can say, direct impact in a situation where the law is actually being violated. It is also worth remembering that there are provisions on the syndicate's license, which provide for a situation in which the Minister of Justice may revoke the syndicate's licence or suspend the rights deriving from the licence if there are gross infringements of the law when the syndicate's actions are unlawful. It is important that all activities of the syndicate are under the control of the Commissioner's judge and, in the case of licences, the Minister of Justice. This activity is under judicial control and this is a direct response to what is happening in this area. Now I'm going to talk about the role of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, we are analysing these issues in agreement with the Financial Supervision Commission, which also observes this from the point of view of stability in relation to its activities, the Banking Guarantee Fund. Indeed, we are gathering information, we are trying to understand it, and of course we are responding to all these issues. We have no direct impact on the case, because the institution which has a direct translation into the activities of the syndicate is the Commissioner's judge and he can interfere. What we're doing is we're trying to identify actions that can actually be questionable. About the fact that members of the cash register are being called, or rather about people who aren't members of the cash register... We have not met with such situations, therefore this is the first such information for us. What we know and what we're trying to respond to... Because there is indeed a provision based on the Cooperative Law, concerning the fact that if in the statutes of a given cashier it is recorded, the syndicate may call upon a member of that cashier - in the event of bankruptcy or bankruptcy - to pay the second amount, it is regulated by the statute of the cashier. On our part, we observe, we try to analyze whether this is done correctly, we collect information. We know, for example, that on 25 October 2017 a civil court in Dąbrowa Górnicza took the first sentence in the case for payment precisely for this double liability, i.e. supplementing the second member's deposit, from the insolvency syndicate's claim of the Ark SkOK against one of the Ark's cashier's members, and it was a judgment in favour of the syndicate. The verdict is incorrigible, so we don't know exactly what's going to happen, but we see that there's some judicial practice. It is based, of course, on this provision that if the syndicate identifies the members of the cash register, and it is written in the statutes, once again here this condition I will remind you, it can expect and demand from the members of the cash register a second deposit of its share. Whether it's always done correctly, it has to check the court. If there are such cases that it is directed to people who are not members of the cash register, then it is unlawful. But to do so, one should react in such a way that those who are in this relationship have the right to attend a meeting of creditors, the Council of Creditors, and can express their right. This is a very difficult case because bankruptcy and resolution law clearly regulates who can interfere with the activities of the syndicate and who can control and verify these activities. So it is worth remembering this in this context. Of course, the information she has presented to you will be analysed and we will be familiar with it again, so that we can check it out and pass it where it is needed, if there is indeed the irregularities that you have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u30	Thank you. Please, Mrs Zielińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u31	I just wanted to ask around and say there's more than 20,000 victims. persons - in the Śląskie, Małopolskie and Podkarpackie voivodship. There are many such people, even in my hometown - Gorlice. These are the people who, some years ago, paid one bill at the SKOK, never were shareholders, just didn't realize that by paying one bill, they became shareholders. No one in the SKOK has ever informed about the increase in the purchase of the share, which amounted to 950. I have this question: Is the government planning any changes in the functioning of the SKOKs? What's going on is a sign of extortion from citizens of money. In my opinion, the Committee on Financial Supervision should finally try to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u32	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u33	I understand the situation. We will indeed analyze it. It is certainly not that we avoid gathering information and understand what these irregularities are all about. The question does not concern the SKOK acting, because the SKOK, which is in bankruptcy, is already a failure SKOK, so this is not about regulations relating to the functioning of the SKOK. This is about bankruptcy and recovery regulations. Insolvency and resolution law refers to a different scope of operation. Of course, we will ask the Minister of Justice to examine this case, because this is the domain of the Minister of Justice, how bankruptcy and resolution laws are applied. It is difficult for me to say exactly what the next steps will be for the Minister of Justice. I'm sure it's that all the syndicate's actions have to be legal. If it happened - it is, I have the impression, a certain truism - to acts illegal, consisting in the fact that someone who is not a member of the cash register is being called, or there has been a crime involving someone, say, extortion or cause that someone has signed some documents contrary to his own awareness that he has become a member of the cash register, then of course there are some consequences associated with the crime of fraud or the actions of the syndicate. If you're looking for a supplemental share from someone who's not a member, then we're dealing with a crime, which makes it hard for me to... This isn't even about the fact that the law isn't working properly, we're just dealing with a crime and, if that's the case, we need to move on. If there are such irregularities, then the syndicate is unlawful. We need to analyze this. Maybe he has some legal basis, because maybe it's true that we're dealing with people who, I don't know, used to be members of the cash register, and they forgot about it, and now the syndicate works according to the law, and for them it's a surprise. Therefore, it is difficult for me to answer now, because you can put things on. If what you are saying is true that he is acting against the law, that he has violated the law, we will have to take an interest in it and draw the attention of the Commissioner, through him, to the Minister of Justice, that there is an irregularity. And if he's following the law, it's a different situation. It's hard for me to tell what's going on right now. I'm sure we can't leave this behind without action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question by Mr Jack Protasiewicz from the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats on the process of expropriating the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship in connection with the construction of the S5 expressway on the section of Nowe Marzy - Dworzko. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Maybe I'll start by quoting the article. 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which speaks in paragraph 21 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. 2 that expropriation is admissible only if it is carried out for public purposes and for fair compensation. I would like to draw your attention to the right compensation. I have been approached by Mrs Zuzanna Lewicka-Burek, a resident of the municipality of Świecie, not in my case, and I want to make this clear, because this is not the problem that concerns her, but about many inhabitants of the municipality of Świecie, in particular Wiag, Morsk, Świętka and Świet, which are expropriated from the property in connection with the planned investment - the construction of the S5 road. These residents do not question the need to build this road, but question the procedure, procedure, and in particular the value estimated by the expert established by the Kuyavian-Pomeranian real estate province. In the letter I have in my hand that the mayor of the World sent to your voivodeship, it is said... One example is the family that is to receive compensation of only 90 000 per farmhouse. zł, while prices of 1 m2 in the World start at 3 thousand. The loss of the building will not be compensated for the possibility of buying a small studio apartment. The residents point out that there are cases where only a residential building is purchased from the residents and that the economic buildings are left behind. In a different situation, a part of the residential building is bought out, e.g. Two rooms, and the others aren't. Such a procedure is contrary to common sense, contrary to the provision of the Constitution of the Article. 21 and against social justice. On behalf of the people who are subject to this expropriation procedure, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on the Minister to take care of this matter urgently. Are you aware of this situation, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u36	Thank you. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 1 of the Act of 10 April 2003 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in public roads of real estate or parts thereof contained in the decision to authorise the implementation of road investment shall become the property of the Treasury in respect of national roads as from the date on which the decision to authorise the implementation of the road investment became final. A separate administrative decision issued by the authority which has issued the decision to authorise the implementation of the road investment shall be determined for the immovable property or parts thereof. The competent authority to issue both the decision to authorise the implementation of the road investment so-called. ZRID, as well as the compensation decision, is in this case the Kuyavian-Pomeranian voivode. The Board of Appeal shall be composed of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, who shall be competent in matters relating to property matters and expropriations. Currently, the Minister in charge of government administration is Minister of Investment and Development. For this reason, in my speech, I will only try to limit myself to the competence which is appropriate for the Minister of Infrastructure. Most importantly, the value of each property is determined by an independent asset valuer individually in the form of an estimated operation. According to art. 157 The Real Estate Management Act shall assess the correctness of the calculation of the estimated operation in particular by the established professional organisation of property experts within a period of not more than 2 months from the date of conclusion of the contract for carrying out the valuation. It should also be borne in mind that property is a statutory professional activity. The Real Estate Management Act clarifies the scope of activities, the principles of entitlement and the professional responsibility of property experts. In the light of Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 This Law requires the value of the property to be determined in accordance with the principles of law and professional standards, with particular care specific to the professional nature of these activities and the principles of professional ethics, following the principle of impartiality in the valuation of the property. The establishment of an estimated operation, regardless of the type of conduct, is always emotional because it de facto determines the value of compensation. It must be borne in mind, however, that it is not the government administration, and in this case the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, which estimates the value of the property and, consequently, the amount of compensation, while in the absence of any reservation for the respect of the operation, its role is actually limited, one can say, to the payment of the amount indicated in the decision. During the preparation of the S5 investment, the residents of the town of Wiąg indicated that the valuation of the assets was disproportionately low. According to the information held by the Ministry and the General Directorate, meetings were held on the subject of residents with the voivodship, which indicated that owners who had reservations about the valuation had requested a re-evaluation of the fixed values, but only if the compensation decision had not been issued. In conclusion, the right of owners to obtain fair compensation for the acceptance of their property rights is guaranteed by indicating by the legislator the appropriate procedure to determine the amount of compensation. On the other hand, the parties dissatisfied with the decision setting the amount of compensation may, of course, exercise their right to appeal against the decision. According to the information held by the infrastructure department, administrative proceedings for the determination of compensation for the property taken over for the construction of the S5 road, section Nowe Marzy - Dworszko, are still being conducted by the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, and in relation to some of the decisions issued, the voivode has been appealed to the Minister of Investment and Development, which is currently considering them. As long as the compensation process is not completed and the valuers appointed by the voivode perform the valuations, including the repeated valuations, this process cannot be considered to be completed. The Directorate-General, as well as the citizens referred to in the question, is a party to this procedure and expects all the issues at issue to be clarified as soon as possible. However, this does not change the fact that the decision of the ZRID concerning this section is already final. I would like to remind you that the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivode has issued a decision of the ZRID on 22 June 2017. According to Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The two special provisions of the ZRID decision set a time limit for the issue of real estate or the issue of real estate and the emptying of premises, as the Member also asked, as well as other premises. However, that period may not be less than 120 days from the date on which the decision to authorise [[♪ The bell ♪]] the implementation of the road investment has become final. He also talked about the fact that the valuation of buildings was disproportionate. These processes haven't been completed either, they're going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u38	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Mr. Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u39	Thank you. Minister! I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the valuations of one particular valuer are being questioned. This is mentioned by both the mayor in his writing and the residents in his letter to the voivodeship, that in other localities or in relation to those properties and owners, for which other valuers' estimates have been made, such controversy does not appear, but appears in connection with the activity of this particular valuer. I'm not gonna mention his name. And there is also an appeal to you to influence the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship so that any re-evaluations are not carried out by the same office. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a situation in which residents do not question the reasonableness of this investment, but question the valuation of the property. There is a big problem with those who have decided to accept under-compensation, because their damage is probably beyond repair. I appeal to the Minister to draw your attention and to the voivodeship, and to the appropriate ministry, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want them to take care of this matter urgently, because the time limits for lodging will be right away. Now, in May these people are to be accommodated, and they can't even afford to buy a bachelor's apartment in place of an expropriated house. I will also hand over some of the documents to the Minister so that it is easier to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u40	Please, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to remind you that the estimated operations are carried out by independent property experts. Nevertheless, if we have doubts about the rules, perhaps we should look at the principles according to which the valuer acts. Of course, we will draw the attention of the voivode and try to locate this valuer. Maybe we can file a complaint with organizations that... [[His name is in those documents.]] Thank you very much. Of course, we won't leave it without action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the next question formulated by Marek Polak, Ewa Filipiak, Zbigniew Biernata and Jarosław Szlachetka from Law and Justice. The question concerning cases concerning the coordination of social security systems in the area of family benefits and education provided to voivodships by the Marshals of voivodships is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Please, the first question is asked by Marek Polak and Zbigniew Biernat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since January this year. because of the growing backlogs of social security systems in the area of family benefits and educational benefits from the programme, the family of 500+ is being carried out by the voivodships and not so far by the marshals' offices. I would like to ask what were the causes of such huge arrears and whether they were due to obvious negligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to official data, at the end of 2017 marshals of voivodships in more than 139 thousand. cases have not entered into administrative proceedings at all. Many families have waited several months to decide. Therefore, I wanted to ask which marshal offices were the worst performing these tasks commissioned and why the Ministry's assessment did not manage to coordinate the social security system within the framework of the 500+ family programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u45	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the tasks related to the EU coordination of family benefits and educational provision was the subject of the activities of the voivodships marshals by the end of 2017. The entry into force of the programme 500+. The number of family cases that had never previously applied for any family benefits under EU rules increased by 60% in relation to only family benefits. In short, the amount of education was encouraged by those who had not benefited from the benefits of EU coordination so far, because they could count on much lower family benefits to benefit from it. In view of the unsatisfactory progress made in the implementation of the case, it was decided to take over on 1 January this year. under the Law amending the Law related to systems of support for families coordination of family benefits and educational provision by voivodship offices. The transfer to voivodships of the cases under consideration concerning the EU's coordination of benefits was so justified that this is a task in the field of government administration, which was only commissioned to local governments. Thanks to the change introduced, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has also gained much greater impact on the enforcement of effective implementation of EU social security coordination tasks in this area. On the basis of verified information provided by the voivodship offices as of 5 January this year. The marshals of the voivodships handed over over 222 thousand to the voivodships. Unfinished matters concerning the provision of education and family benefits, both cases where administrative and pending proceedings have not been initiated at all, i.e. cases which have been initiated but have not been completed. The Ministry keeps up-to-date, meticulously, closely monitors progress in the implementation of the cases reported by the marshals while verifying the data received at the same time. This monitoring system consists of several elements. By the 5th day of each month following the month to which the report relates, the voivodship offices shall provide information on applications, cases which have entered the voivodship in the calendar month concerned, as at the last day of the month and on the number of decisions taken. Statistical information on the number of decisions taken in family and educational procedures shall be provided each week. As regards financing issues taken over by the voivodship offices, the funds for its implementation were increased by PLN 5 million compared to the previous year. If the amounts received by the voivodships are insufficient, it will be possible to increase this envelope as required. An efficient organisation of work is crucial in the case of the task taken over. Thus, within the voivodship offices special organisational cells were created dedicated exclusively to handling matters related to the coordination of social security systems, information points were created for the citizens concerned, where everyone can learn about the status of their case. The organisation of work has also been modified by placing greater emphasis on the number of employees responsible for carrying out such proceedings and issuing administrative decisions, which has the effect of speeding up the implementation of cases. The recruitment processes announced in order to supplement or increase staff taken over from marshal offices are currently ending. Ministry staff have conducted substantive training on EU legislation on the coordination of social security systems dedicated in individual newly employed voivodships, but also on the deepening of the knowledge of people who have so far carried out this task under the supervision of marshals. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has developed an improved cooperation procedure at the level of the municipality - a voivode to improve the organisation of work, speeding up the implementation of applications. Staff of municipal bodies were trained in most voivodships. On the basis of the new procedure, all matters relating to the need to supplement the applications of the voivodships shall be dealt with by the competent authorities of the municipalities at the level of the closest applicant. The voivodship offices have taken over from the marshals, as I mentioned, 222 603 cases and until 27 April this year. 31 230 decisions were taken, representing around 14% It's taken care of. At the same time, it appears from the analysis of the number of decisions taken in relation to applications for education that in March the voivodship offices issued 5876 decisions, i.e. 393, i.e. 6.7% , more than marshal offices in the corresponding period of 2017. In April [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodship offices spent more than 7 thousand. the decision, i.e. It's over 3,000. decisions more than marshal offices in the same period of 2017. The analysis also shows that in the absence of outstanding cases transmitted by the Marshal's Office, current applications could be carried out faster than during the period during which the Marshals of the Voivodships were responsible for this task. It therefore appears that taking over this task will prove to be a positive solution in the short term for those awaiting family benefits and, once the arrears have been resolved, applications will be dealt with in accordance with the deadlines laid down for such matters, so that the pending families can benefit fully from the benefits due to them in Poland or in another Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u47	Thank you, Minister. And please, Mr Marek Polak and Mr Zbigniew Biernat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, In my voivodship, Małopolska took over 69 thousand from the Marshal of the voivodship. similar unsolved cases, which, in addition to current proposals, are dealt with in the order of impact. I would like to ask when we can expect to catch up on the examination of proposals and move on to the implementation of only current proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Is the Ministry, in order to provide even more efficient customer service to the Ministry, in addition to the organisational changes mentioned by the Minister, planning a permanent reinforcement in the departments of social policy of the voivodship offices, so as to make up for catching up as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u50	You're welcome, Minister Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the situation in individual voivodships is concerned, it is quite diverse. The Member represents the Małopolskie voivodship, which relatively quickly examines applications. We have very detailed statistics. With regard to the Małopolskie voivodship, the number of applications for education and family benefits for those concerned, i.e. applications for decision, amounts to more than 2 000. at the end of the first quarter. Data from subsequent weekly periods, as I mentioned, because in such time periods we conduct statistics, show that the dynamics of processing subsequent late applications is quite large, so that the Małopolskie voivodship - apart from the Opole and Podkarpackie voivodship - is, I would say, on the podium, among these voivodships, which are the fastest able to deal with these backlogs and issue the most conclusions. Of course, we also have voivodships where the dynamics of processing outstanding applications are less. We try to discipline them, as if we encourage them to correct these arrears as soon as possible. We hope that by the end of this calendar year this entire arrears will be achieved - more than 222 thousand. applications submitted by the marshals of voivodships to voivodships - eliminate. We hope that from next year we will start to look at only the conclusions that will affect us. As far as HR issues are concerned, we are in contact with the various voivods. If it affects the proposal, the information that there is a need to increase the number of employees to deal with such coordination issues, we treat each of these requests individually, we always need some justification, we assess how well the practice of implementing the outstanding proposals has been done so far, how many staff shortages have been an obstacle to overcoming these arrears. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that, as I said, we are also trying to respond to these demands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u52	Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the sixth question raised by Mr Tomczyk and Mr Mroczek from the Civic Platform on the hiring of lobbyists by the Polish Armed Group. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How is it that the Polish Armed Group hires double agents? Because I think we all know historical films, and we know it doesn't end very well. The Polish Armed Group concluded a contract with the American lobbyist BGR Government Affairs in November 2017. According to the Insight BGR Policy portal, it was intended primarily to support PGZ's activities in support of the reinforcement programmes of the Vistula and the Homars, i.e. concerning anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence and ground-ground missile launchers, although intergovernmental negotiations on the air defence system were finalized. But as it turns out, BGR also works for Raytheon, a producer of patriots, and it is from them that Poland buys this system. Do you guys really feel like you've done a good deal in this case? Let me remind you that the costs for the Polish taxpayer, i.e. for Polish arms companies, are 70,000. A month's worth of dollars. PGZ has undertaken to pay 70,000 for a year. USD per month and additionally cover expenses related to flights, hotels and restaurants. And yet we know Senator Anders and PiS politicians, and we know that PiS politicians and all their friends don't fly by economic class. So it's 70 grand. dollars plus - that's what this program should be called - or a double agent plus. So how does it work? Because I really can't figure it out. Let me remind you that this is not the first such case, because earlier the Polish Armed Group hired what company? Mr. D. Amato, who worked for the helicopter manufacturer and the Polish Armed Group at the same time. A double agent, too. When it ended, we know because those helicopters are still gone. So the question is: How is it that you do such great business, and how is it that you do everything at the expense of a Polish taxpayer? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u54	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Simple question, simple answer. It is only a pity that Mr Tomczyk, by replicating the press material, duplicated the thesis that is contained... [[He didn't check.]] ...in these press materials, not quite real, not quite proven: somewhere I've seen, somewhere I've heard, not quite accurately presented, it also duplicates it in such a specific way in the plenary room. Ladies and gentlemen! A few things to explain. In fact, today we can talk about the signed agreement of the Management Board of PGZ on 10 November 2017 and an order for BGR to carry out activities related to the use and support of the Polish Armed Group in contacts with the American party. You expect results, but note that on the one hand there is such a negotiating sense and negotiating action by the Polish government, and on the other hand... [[The negotiating sense is beautiful.]] ...there's support, there's advisory support, and there's an American company that has tangible results, because you probably don't see it because you don't want to see it. You wanted to buy the most expensive helicopters in the history of the world... [[The helicopters will be here in an hour.]] ...PLN 13.5 billion for 50 helicopters. The unit amount is almost PLN 300 million per piece, for one helicopter. [[Let's see how much you buy.]] And today we are talking about a situation where negotiations start from the level, I remind you, and you know it well, 10.5 A billion dollars for a Patriot rocket battery. Thanks to efficient negotiators from the government of law and justice, we negotiated... [[It was gonna cost 20 million, it's gonna cost 60.]] [[But don't disturb me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u56	Excuse me, Minister, one second. You will be performing in exactly 3.5 minutes. Please refrain from commenting until then. [[Okay, okay, thank you very much.]] [[Three minutes 40 seconds.]] Thank you very much. Proceed. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: So again, Mr. Marshal, because if you don't mind... Yes, continue, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: From the original amount of PLN 10.5 billion offered to the Polish government, we managed through a skilled, efficient, very intelligent negotiation, also supported by people who are favorable to us, to reach the amount of $4750 million. Gentlemen admit it was a gigantic, amazing feat... [[We won't admit it.]] ...which leaves in the pockets of Polish taxpayers an absolutely large additional, saved funds, which will undoubtedly serve to implement the second phase of the programme of the Vistula. So you can see that these actions are absolutely effective. Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the activities of the Polish Armed Group are concerned, we will have to examine all these activities very strongly, because of what Mr Cezary Tomczyk said. PGZ concluded two agreements: in 2016 the agreement with the lobbyist company Park Strategies, in which the shareholder was Senator D. Amato - contract for 15 thousand. PLN per month; now a contract with BGR Group. In fact, both of these agreements served primarily to build the image of Antoni Macierewicz. This was part of the financing by PGZ not its own tasks, not the development of Polish technology, Polish technical thought, but the image of Antoni Macierewicz. As a result of the conclusion of the first agreement, Antoni Macierewicz met with Senator John McCain, and the result of the conclusion of the second agreement is [[♪ The bell ♪]] his A meeting with Counselor McMaster. But in the case of PGZ we have an even more serious problem, which has recently been described by journalists of the weekly in the Network, namely the creation of business-social links to bring public funds out of PGZ. And that's the problem, sir, Minister. You are talking about success in the negotiations of the Vistula. You'll pay three times. more than planned, for this system. Don't talk nonsense about this lecturer. [[Applause]] [[Weak applause.]] [[But it's honest, and it's the other way around.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. If anyone dares to speak nonsense from this speaker, then only Members of the total opposition, because when it comes to the negotiations of the Vistula programme, you have done nothing, exactly nothing. Bronisław Komorowski used you as Deputy Minister of National Defence instrumentally in the electoral campaign and said that the programme of the Vistula is settled, negotiated, prepared - May 2015. And you didn't do anything. [[You don't know what you're talking about.]] You have absolutely no knowledge, even though you were Deputy Minister of National Defence, about what was happening in your department. You have no elementary knowledge of this. [[There's documents.]] It is a pity that you were doing politics, not work for the good of the Republic and for the good of the Polish army. [[You're taking the money out.]] [[Any answer to the question?]] Dear Members, Let me repeat: the actions that have been taken must be read in a positive way. [[Taking out the money, right?]] And to calm your emotions and your uproar... [[There's no need.]] ...I just wanted to let you know that right now... Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u60	Excuse me, please don't make it difficult for the Minister to speak. [[Bringing money upsets you.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: The current management of the Ministry of National Defence is also absolutely verifying, verifying and evaluating the activities undertaken over the last 2 years in the Ministry of National Defence, as well as contracts that have been signed. Of course, there is such a verification procedure and we also expect information on the measurable effect of such actions, whether they have brought such actions or such agreements. One of the positive, very positive effects I have presented to you. That's 10.5 billion to 4750 million. This is one of the tangible effects. But, of course, we are open to discussing this issue, and we will probably talk about it again and again in the plenary room or at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence. I only appeal once again: Don't talk nonsense from this speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And that's applause!]] Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, formulated by Members John Kilian and Alexander Mr Forczynski of Law and Justice. The question about the deficit of certain medicines in the context of their illegal removal abroad is addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, Mr Jan Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The drug scandal is generally irregularities in the Ministry of Health, which facilitate export abroad of drugs, which are very lacking in Poland and which support patients in very serious diseases. It's very often about life-saving drugs. Nearly 200 drugs are still at risk of being exported from the country. Pharmacies are alarmed because they're unable to implement prescriptions. Medicines ordered for individual pharmacies are limited and producers have actually taken over the distribution system in order to reduce exports. At this time, the Minister of Health ensures that the situation is contained, but is the idea of tracking cars enough to solve this problem? This is, of course, a long-standing issue, since it has been functioning properly for six years, and there is still no solution. The problem is not only the lack of drugs, but also the way they are distributed. Some of the drugs are still exported, but companies are also shielded from potential exports and restrict their availability, even if there are no exports. There is a situation where a pharmacist has to prove that a prescription patient has actually come to him in order to get the drug. It's hard to accept. Minister, answer me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to ask me: What action is the Ministry of Health currently taking to stop this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u62	Thank you. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marcin Czecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u63	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Referring to the questions of Mr Jan Kilian and Mr Aleksandr Mr Forczyński on the deficit of certain medicines in the context of illegal export abroad, I would like to explain that the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection are taking action to safeguard the availability of medicinal products for Polish patients. One such action is the inspection of pharmaceutical wholesalers, whereby wholesale distributors obtain information on exports of medicinal products outside the country. This information shall subsequently be provided to the competent law enforcement authorities. Therefore, this phenomenon is known and we have not yet informed that this issue is resolved. Hence our actions, which I am about to talk about, which are to aim to combat this practice more effectively. In cooperation with voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors, weekly reports are prepared for the Minister of Health on the availability of medicinal products on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The reports are one of the sources on the basis of which the Minister of Health publishes every 2 months lists of medicinal products, medical devices and foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses at risk of lack of availability on the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is worth noting that the 200 items that you have spoken of are actually related to 50.70 medicines, because they are often the same preparations in other doses or in other forms. Hence, it is indeed a list according to the so-called. EANs, i.e. special codes, and therefore in practice this problem has less scope. At the same time, I would like to clarify - and this is an important change - that it is currently being examined, and in fact at the last stage, the amendment of the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road, which provides for the regulation of a group of medicinal products. Since the entry into force of the Act, the monitoring of carriage will be covered by products included in the list of products at risk of lack of availability mentioned above. So that I would like to stress that this solution will only be geared towards those preparations that are lacking, and this absence is associated with a certain risk to patients and a certain challenge in terms of public health. The amendment of the pharmaceutical law of 2015 introduced an obligation to notify the intention to export or dispose of medicinal products outside the territory of the Republic of Poland against which the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector objects. While in the second half of 2015 nearly 1,400 applications were submitted to the GIF, the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, which represents nearly 80% of all applications, the number of these applications decreased sharply afterwards. In 2017, only one application was received by the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, which was withdrawn by the party. The experience gained from the more than 2 years of activity of the mechanism of informing the GIF of its intention to export showed that the introduction of the application procedure did not solve the problem of exports of medicinal products outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are still dealing with this and it forces us to reach for other mechanisms to deal with it. It has to be said that the system has evolved from the reverse distribution chain to the involvement of often fictional health professionals, under which the so-called. the requirements were purchased with medicinal products and then exported. Therefore, we are also dealing with the very high creativity of drug-exporters abroad. Therefore, the inclusion of medicinal products at risk of non-accessibility in the transport monitoring system is another tool in the fight against illegal drug exports and the way in which the system is sealed. At the time of the entry into force of the Act, any trader carrying products from the listed list must declare this fact in the SENT declaration register referred to by the Member. Access to data in the system has services capable of controlling and controlling vehicles on public roads, i.e. Police, Road Transport Inspection or National Tax Administration bodies. As we know, these services work very effectively in other areas. This means for entrepreneurs trying to illegally export medicinal products outside Poland an increased risk of control and consequently imposing severe sanctions. In addition, the current revision of the Pharmaceutical Law and some other laws provides for clarification and addition of the rules governing the control powers of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, the revision of criminal rules, i.e. criminal sanctions, the regulation of the obligations of medicinal products traders and of target and intervention imports. The cooperation agreement between the authorities of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection and the National Tax Administration was signed on 28 March this year. This agreement sets out a framework for cooperation in particular in the field of information exchange, so we want this exchange of information to take place even earlier than the law will have its power, which is important for the implementation of the statutory tasks of both bodies. On the basis of the provisions of the Agreement, the Parties shall provide information relevant to the effective prevention and marketing of infringements of the laws governing the manufacture of medicinal products and active substances. It should be stressed that the signed agreement aims to strengthen cooperation between the two institutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Tax Administration has powers which are important for eliminating illegal drug exports. Through the exchange of information and ongoing cooperation, both institutions can achieve greater efficiency in the fight against the unfair practices of certain entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u64	Thank you, Minister. And here you go, Mr Jan Duda. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, another question.]] Okay, here's an extra question, right? Excuse me, Mr Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of illegal export of drugs abroad has been repeatedly taken up by apothecary authorities. The annual losses of our country due to this re-export of medicines reimbursed amounted to about PLN 4 billion. The procedure for exporting drugs from Poland is conducted using different models of operation. This is the second question, Minister: What is the importance in this context of including medicines refunded by the SENT transport control system, the road freight monitoring system, and the cooperation between - earlier you have already mentioned a little bit about it - the State Pharmaceutical Inspection and the National Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u66	Minister! This is also the case with regard to the number of drugs that are at risk. However, I will insist on this higher amount. I understand it's an international name covering these 50 drugs, but it's a very sensitive drug. [[♪ The bell ♪]] patients for whom, for different reasons, it is necessary to administer this medicine rather than another medicine under the same international name. So that the problem is still serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u67	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Marcin Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u68	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen! Gentlemen! Indeed, from the patient's point of view, this dose is needed and not different, so full consent is given that the patient is not interested in how many preparations are included in this single international name. However, please take into account the criteria on the basis of which the list of missing medicines we are dealing with is drawn up. That's 5%. pharmacies in a given voivodship where the medicine is missing. This is also information about the fact that producers have certain challenges related to the production or distribution of these medicines in Poland. Therefore, we have a large margin of safety. This is often the case - for patients it is a big difficulty and we realize that in the second, third or fourth pharmacy the patient is able to get this medicine. In addition, in the Ministry of Health, having kept up to date with this information, we often help simply to identify where this medicine may be available. But this is an ad hoc action. On the other hand, the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road works very well when it comes to the carriage of other critically important goods whose turnover is monitored, such as fuel or cigarettes, which have also been subject to illegal trade on a large scale. It seems that giving control powers to the National Tax Administration, which is specialised and has a lot of experience as well as great success in combating such activities in other areas, should heal this situation. We're hoping we can monitor the transport of drugs... This is a little more difficult because medicines are in small packages and can be transported by smaller vehicles, but we hope that the intervention of the national administration, which, however, has much stronger and stronger tools than the main pharmaceutical inspection, will make it possible to fight this problem more effectively. Perhaps it is worth adding that it is not only a problem of Poland. This is the problem of Central European countries, which generally have lower prices. The more effective the health resort in a given country is in lowering the prices of medicines refunded... They are, of course, exported at these 100 percent prices, but these prices are often half lower than e.g. in Germany, that's why it's profitable. In different ways, countries approach it. We monitor it, we cooperate directly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with these countries. We also try to partially adapt their solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 30 hours 10 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 42 of the agenda. We move on to the eighth question, formulated by Michał Wojtkiewicz, Jan Duda and Michał Jacha from Law and Justice. The question is about support for the development of winemaking. It is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two years ago, I organized a big conference here with wine producers. In the light of the spotlights, proposals were signed regarding the possibility of support by the Ministry of Agriculture, then there was tasting, everyone was delighted with these wines. This was mainly the fault from the south of Poland, from those areas where several thousand hectares lie apart. These are small parcels within 1 ha, 0.5 ha and larger, where farmers don't actually grow anything, because they don't get paid, and there is the possibility of growing, among others. the vine. Minister! It's been two years since. Less than a year later, there was another meeting at the Ministry. And what was done? Nothing. Then there was another third meeting. So? Nothing. There have also been talks with the Minister personally. I also asked the Minister to draw up a model application, among others. to apply for funding for the establishment of vineyards. Minister! There are many other things. This is really a chance to develop these areas and give people in these areas the opportunity to earn, because of 1 ha you can get about 30,000. Excise duty, as well as VAT. VAT in neighbouring countries on wine is 8% Twenty-three percent of us. As far as excise duties are concerned, these excise duties are also applied and not necessary, e.g. it's not glued to beer. It's making things harder for me, too. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u71	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the Members' question about the development of winemaking, I would like to inform you that a programme for the development of basic agricultural markets has been developed in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. While winemaking is not mentioned in this programme as one of the main areas of agriculture, fruit and vegetables, and this crop group includes the cultivation of vines, it is the part for which the general principles of support and development of this production branch have been developed. Industrial programmes are currently being developed for each area. Only industry programmes are developed by the industry, so they are developed by the social side. They shall be submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, they shall be consulted, agreed and subsequently accepted for joint implementation. We wanted to reverse the situation - not for the Ministry to develop specific sectoral programmes, but for them to develop organisations. Such a programme has recently been adopted for the beef sector. More are being developed. So we are open to organisations representing the wine-making and wine-making sectors to prepare such a programme and, in cooperation with the Ministry, to develop and present it. As far as available support instruments are concerned, we have repeatedly provided information that there are no instruments in Poland aimed at particular sectors. The instruments are addressed to individual groups of farmers. Thus, the Rural Development Programme provides for bonuses for young farmers, which can also be used by young farmers who would like to set up vine plantations. The second programme is the restructuring programme for small farms. Those who meet the criterion of small farms if they want a bonus - and this bonus can be up to 60 thousand. zł - allocate for restructuring towards wine-growing, it can also benefit from this scheme. Another programme is the modernisation programme for agricultural holdings that can be used. It is already about farms of value, economic size from 10 to 200 thousand. Euros. And here, too, during the selection of proposals, it is also possible to submit proposals concerning, inter alia,: an operation involving the purchase of planting material and the completion of the establishment of a vine plantation. Once we enter the stage of wine production, i.e. processing, there is such action: Processing and marketing of agricultural products. Applications may also be submitted for the costs related to modernization of buildings, reconstruction of storage bases, investments in machinery, equipment, also related to support for grape wine production. Detailed information on how to complete proposals and prepare proposals is available on the website of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. On the other hand, the unit which is specialised in helping farmers prepare, fill out applications are agricultural advisory centres which have specialists, advisors who are able to assist farmers in completing the application, the model of which, as I said, is on the website of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Of course, a farmer may make an effort to complete such a request himself, but he may also benefit from the assistance of advisers. These proposals and these rules concern many production directions, they are not prepared for one direction, but specialists in agricultural advisory centres, I am convinced, are able to help farmers setting up such plantations. In order not to be literal, I would like to inform you that, as part of the restructuring of small farms, aid applications have been submitted and such aid has already been granted. Although only four applications were submitted and the aid was granted in the case of three of these applications, the fourth is probably still at the stage of the examination, but this shows that the possibility of reaching for measures is and can be used. As regards the processing and marketing of agricultural products, six such applications were submitted. As far as the modernisation of agricultural holdings is concerned, two such applications have been submitted which relate precisely to [[♪ The bell ♪]] wine growers and wine producers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u73	Thank you, Minister. The additional question, please, is asked by Mr Jan Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yes, we know this matter of helping directly with the setting up of vineyards. My fellow Member and I are doing a little bit of this because my fellow Member has vineyards. What's the big problem? We think the Ministry should be involved here. The establishment of vineyards should be based on proven, adapted to our climatic and soil conditions of nursery material. It's very different with that. There are studies conducted by the Jagiellonian University, while the Minister also owns his research facilities. I'm thinking here, for example. about an experimental facility in Brzezna. Would it be possible for the Ministry to support the production of good nursery material through its activities in Brzezna experimental plants, e.g. as part of the programme concerning Polish vineyards?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u75	And one more thing. Minister! What you said was fiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I asked the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and I did not receive an answer. I'm giving you the name of the man who works there: Mr. Smoleń. Unfortunately, it's on a very low level or there's no...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u76	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u77	As far as the issue of support for the programme is concerned by the institute under the Ministry, it is, of course, only time for the wine industry to sit together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to prepare such a programme. The initiative must come from the industry, from the social side. That's what we expect. As regards issues relating to the request to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, I understand that it is the wrong address to help prepare an application for farmers interested in such cultivation. The Agency accepts these proposals, and for helping to prepare proposals - I have already said and once again - they are responsible for agricultural advisory services. They're the ones who have specialists in this field. Of course, the agency can provide general guidance on the fulfilment of applications and resolve interpretation problems as to the eligible costs and other issues, but since a detailed application has been drawn up for a given farm, because each farm is different and each needs a different approach to the application, this is an agricultural advisory centre. Special programmes for individual regions of Poland, e.g. concerning support for wine production in Podkarpacie, it is possible, but in general regional policy is responsible for the voivodship. As regards modernisation of farms, regional criteria are possible. [[And what is the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for?]] Such criteria were also presented by the Podkarpackie voivodship, except that there were no additional scores in these criteria, additional preferences for mountain areas or for particular types of production. These criteria may be subject to changes in subsequent calls. Here the initiative is on the side of the Marshal's offices, because it is the Marshal's offices that define regional criteria and they can direct support for particular types of production or individual types of farms. In conclusion, if there is a will from the industry to take such cooperation and work on a special programme, we are open to providing assistance. [[You've been open for two years, Minister, and so far you've been unable to do anything, unfortunately.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u78	Thank you very much. We move on to another question formulated by Mieczysław Miazga, Kazimierz Gołojuc and Zbigniew Gryglas from Law and Justice on the increase in the volume of fuel sales in companies under the authority of the Ministry of Energy. Question for the Minister of Energy. Please, Mr Mieczysław Miazga.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Within the context of an effective policy on the elimination of the so-called Law and Justice Government. I wanted to ask the following questions: Is there a known increase in the volume of wholesale fuel sales that has recently been recorded by the fuel companies that the Ministry of Energy is supervising? Second: How does this possible increase in sales market share translate into the financial results of these companies and thus to the extent that revenues have increased to the State budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u80	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Tadeusz Skobl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative changes introduced have contributed to a significant reduction in the so-called phenomenon. the grey fuel market, as confirmed by the increase in legal fuel trading, well beyond market trends, and the increase in tax revenue from the impact on the state budget. The changes in the fuel market, as a result of the government's legislative actions, had a positive impact on Polish fuel companies, as well as other entities operating on the Polish market, in accordance with the rules and principles of fair competition. The biggest changes were seen in diesel statistics. Effects of the so-called the fuel package was already visible in the first month of its operation. In August 2016, the consumption of diesel was 1319 thousand. t and compared to consumption in July this year was higher by 22%, i.e. 242 thousand. a. There was also a 26% increase in fuel imports, i.e. more than 58 thousand. t more than in the previous month. On the basis of the data provided by the Minister for Energy, public statistics, after comparing consumption and imports of diesel in August 2015 and August 2016, it was found that consumption was higher by 29% while imports were higher by 235%. The positive impact of legislative changes on the market has also been reflected in annual statistics. The consumption of diesel in 2016 was more than 13 million tons and increased by 15% compared to consumption in 2015 , while imports of diesel in 2016 amounted to 3.3 million tons and increased by more than 212% compared to imports in 2015. This growth trend continued in 2017. Consumption growth has been reported almost 3 million t, which means that it was 21% more than in the previous year, and an increase in imports by more than 1.5 million tons, which means an increase of 47%. As far as the motor gasoline market is concerned, the effects of the fuel package are mainly seen in consumption. Annual data indicate an increase in consumption in August 2016 compared to August 2015 by 12% That's over 48,000. t. The consumption of motor gasoline in 2016 alone amounted to almost 4 million t and was higher than consumption in 2015 by 9%, while the import volume of motor gasoline in 2016 was higher by 33% compared to imports in 2015. As with diesel, the upward trend continued in 2017. There was an 8% increase in consumption and an increase in imports by 39%. Production results of 2017 were in line with the demand trends on the domestic market with the maximum use of the possibilities of Polish fuel companies. These companies used both the domestic and the international market for motor fuels to maximise the production of these fuel species, accompanied by a larger official surplus in the country. The fact that the effective elimination of the phenomenon of the black and grey zones on the fuel market has resulted in almost the entire Polish production of domestic fuel companies being placed in the internal market requires emphasis. Products that could not be placed on the internal market have been sold with a good profit abroad. However, this situation cannot be compared with the period before the introduction of solutions to combat the grey zone, since exports were largely forced by the influx of illegal fuels into the domestic market and were carried out under much worse conditions. In 2017, as compared to 2016, exports decreased by 1/3, thus the decreasing trend started in 2016. It should also be stressed that the biggest decrease in exports was related to diesel, motor gasoline, or fuels, which remained largely in the sphere of interest of illicit traders. Exports of diesel from 2016 decreased by 89% and motor gasoline by 56%, which means that around 1 million m3 of fuels were placed in the country more than a year ago. Increased domestic demand also resulted in an increase in imports, especially diesel - by 45%, and motor gasoline - by 32%. Finally, the share of imports in the domestic diesel market also increased to 33%. In the case of motor gasoline, the share of imports in domestic consumption was around 11%. The trends presented are reflected in the financial results of national concerns. And so: PKN Orlen SA - the unit net profit for 2015 amounted to PLN 1048 million, in 2016 it was PLN 5364 million, in 2017.6102 million PLN. That's an increase of 13.4%. in relation to the previous year. The Lotos SA Group - the unit net profit in 2015 is - PLN 37 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2016, PLN 1160 million, in 2017, PLN 1419 million. The high profits of the companies translated into a visible increase in tax revenue into the state budget. The revenue to the state budget in 2017 amounted to PLN 50 billion, so it is possible to notice about PLN 5 billion in growth compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u82	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you. Would the Member like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u83	No, thank you. That's an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u84	Okay. Thank you, both of you. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the tenth question formulated by Jerzy Gosiewski, Adam Oldakowski and Krzysztof Maciejewski from Law and Justice. This is a question about dezubekowanie authorities of sports clubs and associations related to sports and tourism, including among others. TKFiT is addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. Here you go, Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u85	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The government of the Republic of Poland spends more and more money on sports associations and clubs, which should spend these funds only according to their intended purpose. From the information that voters provide to us, these societies and sports clubs have created a fossilized arrangement in which, for decades, the same people are mostly elected to power. Others are allowed, but only if they guarantee that they will be absorbed by this practically closed system. The situation is particularly difficult in small municipalities and poor districts, where local authorities are closely associated with these local associations and sports clubs. The worst thing about all of this is that in these communal or district clubs, but even in the voivodship and national ones there are people who were either alone or by their family members connected with the security services of the Polish People's Republic. Minister! Will you consider the legal possibility of changing the rules that would eliminate former PRL security officers and their secret co-workers from the authorities and sports clubs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u86	Minister! In the light of what Mr Gosiewiski said, I ask whether this situation does not explain the difficulty of reaching any financial subsidies that small sports clubs do not have any support, which I find difficult to learn during frequent visits by representatives of these clubs in my parliamentary office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Jan Widera, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Sport and Tourism, in accordance with the Act of 25 June 2010 on Sport, exercises supervision over Polish sports unions. The Sports Act contains a catalogue of restrictions to which a member of the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association is subject. The amendment of this Sports Act of September 2017 introduced a ban on the function of a member of the management board of the Polish Sports Association by persons who are employees, officers or soldiers of the State Security Authorities during the period from 22 July 1944 to 31 July 1990. According to the Act of 18 October 2006 on the disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of those documents, the catalogue of persons acting as a public office is in principle limited to persons holding public authority or managing positions in public authorities and managers of positions relating to the management of public assets. With regard to sports clubs most often operating in the form of associations or associations, the provisions of the Law of 7 April 1989 on associations apply more widely. In accordance with its provisions, the supervisory authority shall be the competent territorially senior. It should be noted that the association is a voluntary, self-governing and permanent non-profit-making association which sets out its own objectives, action programmes and organisational structures and adopts internal acts concerning its activities. These provisions implement the constitutional principle of freedom of association of citizens and provide considerable autonomy for associations. The provisions of the Law on Associations do not contain the same as the Act on sports restrictions concerning candidates for the composition of the board, in this case also sports clubs and associations. It should be noted that the introduction of dezubecisation in associations active in the field of sport or tourism, including TKKF, would be a violation of the principle of equal treatment of operators as associations operating in other areas would not be covered by this process. It is important that the financial resources allocated to the implementation of sports projects by sports clubs which are associations are awarded through open and competitive selection of applications, so the position of these entities is quite different from that of Polish sports unions, which exercise their powers in a given sport reserved for them in the provisions of the Sports Act. Having regard to the above legal provisions, in particular the fact that the Minister of Sport and Tourism does not supervise the activities of a number of other than Polish sports associations of entities that may carry out activities related to sport, I would like to say that there are currently no work to cover the catalogue of restrictions of persons acting on the boards of associations, including sports clubs. I answer your question about sports clubs and associations. As I said earlier, all these entities have the right to take part in open competitions, where they are thoroughly checked and verified all the documents presented which are related to the rules so that the club receives funding from the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. There are no restrictions on our part here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u89	Please, Mr Gosievski and Mr Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u90	Dear Marshal, Such a brief additional question to the Minister: How many members of the boards of Polish sports unions have lost their functions after having imposed an obligation to illustrate on them? And a brief question from a fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u91	Me too, Marshal. Minister, is there a legal possibility to include in the terms of the competition a criterion that the authorities of the association participating in the competition are free from PRL security officers and their secret co-workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jan Widera.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u93	The obligation to make a illustrative statement was covered by 440 persons who were a member of the Polish sports association on 12 September 2017. Of these people 63 persons, i.e. 14% , lost their position as a member of the board of the Polish sports union. To answer the second question, I would like to say that there is no legal basis for such requests to be rejected at present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the eleventh question, the last question, formulated by Sławomir Nitras and Krzysztof Brejza from the Civic Platform. The question about the actions of the prosecution against police officers who contributed to the death of Igor Stachowiak, to journalists who revealed what had happened at the police station in Wrocław, and to the family of Igor Stachowiak, is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u95	Thank you, Marshal. On 15 May 2016, Mr Igor Stachowiak died at the police station. The prosecution, as Mr Ziobro said from this speaker on 24 May 2017, immediately secured all documents. But only a year after this case, 4 days after the release of the Supervisor and Mr. Bojanowski's materials, the chiefs and all the policemen are suspended. The question to the D.A.'s office is why she hasn't turned these people off for a year. Why didn't she go to the Home Office with all the evidence to suspend them? That's the first question. Question two. On 24 May 2017, four days after the disclosure of the material, Minister Ziobro said this: Neither the stunning grips applied by the policemen nor the use of the Taser contributed to the death. Wasn't that pressure on the D.A.'s office? [[And the experts.]] Can the D.A.'s office, after such words made by the minister, press charges other than those referred to by the minister? Can the prosecutors say that the stun gun's action contributed to the death of Igor Stachowiak? Public opinion and parents, injured. Mr. Stachowiak's father says, "I don't agree with the indictment." I believe my son was murdered at the police station. It was a homicide. He says, "This is reprehensible, I don't understand the prosecution's actions. The prosecution's actions on this matter do not understand public opinion, do not understand Poles, do not understand people who fear for the fate of their children who do things. We have problems with young people, young people vary. But that boy didn't deserve to die, he didn't deserve it. These people contributed to the death of Igor Stachowiak. And the Polish State, the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office, by force of its authority, frees them from this charge and says that the means it took are the only cause of his death. My question is: [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can the U.S. Attorney's office represent a public interest by saying things that no one with a healthy mind can agree with? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u96	Thank you. Please respond to the deputy Attorney General, Mr. Krzysztof Sierak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to a question about the actions of the prosecutor's office against police officers who contributed to the death of Igor Stachowiak, to journalists who revealed what had happened at the police station in Wrocław, and to the family of Igor Stachowiak, I kindly inform you that the prosecutor's office does not conduct any action against journalists or against the family of Mr Stachowiak. As regards the first part of the question, concerning police officers, I inform you that the District Attorney's Office in Poznań conducted proceedings concerning the involuntary manslaughter of the death of Igor Stachowiak on 15 May in Wrocław at the police station in the course of carrying out his duties with him by police officers, i.e. Article 1 is replaced by the following: 155 Penal Code. As far as all the evidence gathered is concerned, a number of activities have been carried out meticulously, as well as what was most important in this procedure, i.e. a number of medical opinions, which were summarised in one comprehensive opinion. On the basis of this comprehensive expert opinion attached to the case, which was the basis for assessing the cause of death of Mr Igor Stachowiak, the experts pointed out that the victim died of cardiopulmonary failure following an episode of excited delirium caused by psychotropic drugs. It was the experts who stated in the opinion that there was no reason to accept that the use of taser by police officers would contribute to the death of Mr Stachowiak. It was the experts in a comprehensive opinion based on all the evidence that the evidence does not indicate that the transport and restraint devices used were performed in a way that could directly lead to the death of Mr Stachowiak. It was also the expert opinion that found, ultimately, that the prosecutor was based on the prosecution's indictment that it could not be proved for sure required in criminal proceedings that the measures of direct coercion by police officers in the form of debilitating grips were in connection with the cause and effect of the victim's death. After assessing all the evidence collected, the prosecutor considered that there was no causal link within the meaning of criminal law between the behaviour of police officers and the death of Igor Stachowiak. On 20 March 2018, an indictment was drawn up against four police officers who were accused of exceeding their rights and abuse of a deprived person, i.e. Article 1 is replaced by the following: 231 § 1 of the Penal Code and Art. 247 § 1 of the Penal Code. The indictment was brought to the District Court for Wrocław-Centrummieście in Wroclaw and finally, in this case, an independent court will state its findings, the legal qualifications adopted and the blame of the accused. By the way, I can only mention - I do not think that I am repealing any secrecy of judicial proceedings - that the results of the first provisions of the court on the applications of attorneys of the defendants concerning the change of legal qualifications of the defendants indicate that the legal qualification of the defendants is, at least at this stage of the proceedings, fully correct. As regards the second part of the question, the one concerning the actions of the prosecutor's office towards journalists who have revealed what has happened at the police station and the actions of Igor Stachowiak's family, I must point out once again that the prosecutor's office does not prosecute journalists and does not prosecute members of the Igor Stachowiak family. Public dissemination proceedings shall be conducted without authorisation prior to disclosure in legal proceedings, in the form of, inter alia, information from the preparatory proceedings. video footage from the investigation of the District Attorney's Office in Poznań concerning the death of Igor Stachowiak by issuing it on 20 May in the Superviser programme. In accordance with the principle of legalism, resulting from the Code of Criminal Procedure, the prosecutor was obliged to initiate a preliminary investigation, because the transgression of the article. § 241 1 of the Penal Code is prosecuted from the office. In the course of the proceedings on 24 October 2017, the prosecutor addressed the application to the District Court in Warsaw for the release of journalist Wojciech Bojanowski, author of the aforementioned. a report in the program Superwisier, with journalistic secrecy. By order of 31 October, the district court accepted the prosecutor's request and released Wojciech Bojanowski from journalistic secrecy. This order was challenged by Mr Wojciech Bojanowski. It should be pointed out that the National Public Prosecutor's Office carried out at that stage an examination of the file of this procedure and concluded that both the request for exemption from the obligation of journalistic secrecy and the court's proceedings on this matter were premature. In accordance with the requests submitted after the examination of the file on 21 November, the prosecutor requested that Mr Wojciech Bojanowski's complaint be taken into account, recognising that the prosecutor's earlier request and the order of the court were premature. The court accepted Wojciech Bojanowski's complaint [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he refused to take the prosecutor's motion into account. High Izbo! In view of the findings which I cannot discuss here in relation to the confidentiality of the proceedings, the case was questioned as witnesses to the members of the family of Igor Stachowiak and two representatives of the family of the victim. Interrogation as witnesses of persons who had access to the investigation material is a routine act of law enforcement, not an extraordinary act. The hearing of those persons was necessary in order to determine the facts relevant to the case. The investigation of the present case and the fact that members of the Igor Stachowiak family are questioned as witnesses cannot be identified and understood as actions taken against and against these witnesses. As I mentioned, Article 241 crime is being prosecuted and the D.A. has a duty...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u98	Thank you, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u99	...to conduct this procedure. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the proceedings currently being conducted in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw are taking place in the case, not against any person. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u100	Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Breja to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! Minister! Chief Chief of Police! It's good to see you in the O.R. After all, if the editor Bojanowski hadn't revealed it, these people would still be working, there wouldn't be a case. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] And you're after him? Is that a problem? It's good of you to come, Chief. Mr. District Attorney didn't explain a lot of things to us, but come out at this point right now - I know you came to the next one - and please tell me why you claimed that the police had no access to the recordings, since we already know that there were four copies of the recordings and that the police had access to those recordings. Tell me why there's no surveillance footage inside this precinct. Why did Mr. BSW order security cameras from inside the police station who, as it turns out, tortured this man, fried him? It wasn't normal, and this procedure isn't entirely normal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're chasing a journalist who revealed pathology... [[And you protect murderers.]] ...which led to these police officers being removed from their posts. How can you do that? Can the Polish state behave decently and dignifiedly, thus treating journalists, journalists of free media who reveal the pathology of your authority? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u102	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Mr. Attorney Krzysztof Sierak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u103	Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! I think that in a clear and obvious way I referred to a very laconic, very general question. I think my answer was very exhausting. As far as details are concerned, these issues are already outside the scope of this question. Questions in writing, please. I will be very specific about this. Thank you very much. [[Have you examined the security cameras?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u104	It's okay, guys. [[We haven't learned anything, Mr. Marshal, and the case is appalling everyone.]] Well, keep digging. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the modernisation of Polish aviation will be discussed, about which the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats brought the presentation. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Generals! Poland takes security seriously for its citizens and for its NATO commitments. We're already spending over 2%. GDP for national defence, and by 2030 we will reach a ceiling of 2.5% - wrote Prime Minister Morawiecki on Twitter. The problem concerns the appropriate allocation of resources for the right purposes. Prime Minister! Numerous media reports on telenovela We buy helicopters indicate that the end can't be seen. According to the media, the MMA wants to buy two or maybe three multi-purpose helicopters. It was decided to purchase American helicopters Black Hawk, almost the same as the Polish army still doesn't have. Of course, without a tender, free of charge, which will undoubtedly affect the higher price and prevent effective competition. It is worth noting that Świdnik's plants, which were the main supplier of helicopters to the Polish Police, were excluded from the tender. Officers fly mainly on two types of machines: PZL Kania and PZL Falcon. The story about buying 50 Caracal helicopters is already famous. 19 of them were to be built in France with the participation of Polish employees, the remaining 31 - in Poland. The first was to be sent to Poland in the last quarter of 2017. The negotiations were broken down and the reason was given for the price of helicopters, which was defined as PLN 13.5 billion for 50 machines with offset, a package guaranteeing the price of spare parts for 30 years, a training package with flight simulators. Then MON was to allocate PLN 8 billion to purchase 16 helicopters. The price per piece rose from 270 million to 500 million. To date, MON, which has huge financial resources, is not modernising Polish aviation. A similar situation concerns medical rescue. In October 2017, Minister Macierewicz watched a rescue show of modernized SAR helicopters at the airport in Babi Dołach. He announced that the modernisation of further helicopters should be considered, without excluding the purchase of completely new machinery. He promised to give concrete information at the beginning of next year, in January 2018. In January 2018, actually after a long break they returned to the service of SAR helicopters. As part of the next agreement, three newer anacondas are still being refurbished, which were sent to the Navy in 1998 and 2002. The first one was sent to Świdnik in December Ub. The next two were submitted in July and August. The completion of the process of upgrading the second batch of helicopters is due to take place at the end of 2018. The remaining two helicopters from ten machines, those that were not planned to be upgraded, are due to leave the service at the turn of 2017/2018, because their resurs expire. This would mean, despite the modernisation, the problem of keeping round-the-clock shifts in two bases at the same time: Darłów and Gdynia. But the Navy found a solution. The situation in the Navy's aviation for the tasks of the SAR could heal the purchase of newly announced by MON helicopters in the SAR version, combat and rescue, some of which would be in the Navy. However, the contracts announced for signing in 2017 are still not in place. In view of the concern for the well-being of the citizens, we are asking the Prime Minister with the following questions. First of all, when will the Polish army be equipped with multipurpose helicopters? Secondly, why are the announcements of the national defence ministers uncoverable? Thirdly, why did the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration intend to secretly buy two helicopters without an appropriate tendering procedure? And fourth, when will the new rescue helicopters be deployed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u106	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'd like to divide the government side into two parts. The first part will be presented to me as a representative of the Ministry of National Defence, the second part will be presented by Minister Jarosław Zieliński - a part concerning what was of interest to the requesting Members, the state of police aviation, as well as the Border Guard. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that there are over 200 different types of helicopters currently operating in military service. They are designed for a wide range of impact, transport, rescue, reconnaissance and training tasks. These are Mi-24W, 3-PL Głuszec and Mi-2 combat helicopters in the ZOP version, i.e. Mi-14 and SH-2G, so-called. On-board helicopters. We have transport helicopters: W-3 Falcon, Mi-8 and Mi-17, SAR version helicopters: W-3 Anaconda and Mi-14. There are also training helicopters Mi-2 and SW-4 Puszczyk. These helicopters, depending on the type, have a target operating standard used on average above 70%. Despite the long-term lifetime, a relatively high technical efficiency of around 75% is maintained. Maintaining the efficiency level depends on the industry's capacity and the availability of spare parts. In relation to the most exploited helicopters, work has been started to determine the possibility of extending their target standard of operation, which will allow further use of these helicopters by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The most difficult situation is currently in maintaining the efficiency of SH-2G helicopters, which despite the use of the target operating standard of 50% they will have to be withdrawn due to the lack of further support by the manufacturer for these helicopters. With regard to the tasks carried out and depending on the planned lifetime of the equipment groups, both renovation and modernisation projects and the acquisition of new helicopters are carried out and planned. As far as the spectrum of tasks is concerned, the following projects are planned. In the case of combat helicopters, a limited upgrade of Mi-24 helicopters and the acquisition of new impact helicopters is planned after 2022, while for the W-3 Głoszec helicopters their further operation is planned. With regard to the SH-2G on-board helicopters in the ZOP version, due to the termination of technical support by the manufacturer, it is planned that these helicopters will be replaced by four new helicopters, acquired under the current procedure to obtain those helicopters with SAR function. As regards multi-purpose transport helicopters, repair of Mi-17, Mi-8, W-3 transport helicopters is planned. This will allow them to continue to operate and ensure that the transport tasks of the Armed Forces are carried out over the next 10 years. For SAR helicopters, modernization of W-3 helicopters to the W-3ARM version of Anaconda is carried out. In addition, SAR tasks are carried out by upgraded Mi-14 helicopters. As far as school helicopters are concerned, there are planned renovations and operating support mainly for all SW-4 Puszczyk helicopters, but also Mi-2. In addition, proceedings are underway to obtain light school helicopters for the Dęblin Higher Air Force School. The total expenditure of PLN 4700 million will be allocated to the above objectives in the technical modernisation plan by 2022, which is worth noting. In summary, it should be stressed that the most urgent task now is to obtain new ZOP helicopters in the background version to replace them planned to withdraw SH-2G helicopters in the coming years. Further decisions on the acquisition of further helicopters of different types in the period after 2022 will be drawn up in the framework of the development programme of the Armed Forces for the years 2017 to 2026. The planned deadline for the completion of the work is subject to the adoption by the Council of Ministers of detailed directions for the reconstruction and technical modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic for the years 2017 to 2026. We discussed this at the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, and I am convinced that the Council of Ministers will be leaning on this issue in May. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[2 years after the deadline.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. I will also ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u109	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In addition to this information presented by Minister Skurkiewicz, I would like to say a few words about the aviation of the MMA: Police and Border Guard. Police aviation currently operates 11 different types of helicopters. These are transport, multitasking and patrol-observation helicopters. These helicopters are located in six bases in: Warsaw, Krakow, Szczecin, Poznań, Łódź and Wrocław. There were other bases, but in the years of the government of the PO-PSL coalition they were liquidated. The helicopters used by the police were manufactured by various manufacturers and have a different size and purpose, depending on the tasks performed. The lack of activity to be mentioned so far in terms of the construction of the appropriate transport facilities has caused a collapse in police aviation and has significantly reduced the ability to carry out some of its statutory tasks. The age of helicopters operated in the police varies for 47 years, it is the oldest helicopter, up to 13 years old, it is the youngest. One helicopter is 47 years old, as I said, one - 45 years old, one - 43 years old, two helicopters - 35 years old, one - 28 years old, two helicopters - 27 years old, two - 26 years old and one - 13 years old. Moreover, in 2010 and 2016 The police were forced to withdraw a total of seven helicopters. These were four Mi-2 helicopters, two PZL Kania helicopters and one Mi-8 helicopter. These helicopters were withdrawn from service due to the end of service life, poor technical condition and inability to pay for maintenance and repairs. With the exception of one helicopter - purchased by the city of Łódź and not by the police - the age of helicopters used by the police exceeds 25 years and due to the end-of-life they will have to be gradually withdrawn from service, including two Mi-2 helicopters already in 2018, one Mi-2 helicopter - in 2019. Thus, three of these 11 helicopters will be withdrawn during this year and 2019. Currently, three helicopters are also excluded from service due to renovations. So that at the moment there are actually only eight of them in use: the Mi-8 helicopter and the PZL W-3 and W-3A helicopters. In recent years, the police have attempted to replace the ageing helicopters. However, these actions were ineffective due to the lack of financial resources which were not granted for this purpose despite the deteriorating technical state of police aviation helicopters, and this was the subject of a meeting of the Sejm Committee, for example in July 2012 during an away session, but this did not lead to conclusions that would be effectively implemented. The last helicopters were included in the Police in 2011 and 2013 but they were used helicopters and already quite heavily deployed, two were transferred just from other services, one purchased by... Sorry, that was before. They were helicopters transferred from other services. But beyond the above mentioned helicopter purchased by the cities of Łódź, all were obtained either at the expense of the Border Guard or the Armed Forces and were quite heavily exploited. Today, one is 27 years old and the other is 26. The Border Guard is currently operating five helicopters. Two types: four PZL Kania helicopters and one PZL W-3AM Anakonda helicopter, and their age ranges from 12 to 22 years. They're a little younger than the police ones, but unfortunately they've already been exploited. The Border Guard also operates eight aircraft of four types between the ages of 3 and 23 years, including four PZL-104MF Wilga 2000 patrol-reconnaissance aircraft, two long-range patrol planes, one Mew patrol plane and one M-28 patrol aircraft. Just a little bit about shopping plans, because something good has finally started to happen, and it's going to change for the better. Between 2018 and 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] A total of seven helicopters are planned to be purchased through the programme to modernise the MSWiA's uniform services and budget appropriations. Marshal, let me finish, this is very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u110	How much more time do you need because you're gonna get a chance. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Shortly, that's the point of the case, because that's what's happening today. Shortly, how much? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I can, right? Shortly, how much? Two minutes or three? [[Marshal, please finish.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Your marshal, two minutes tops. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: It is planned to purchase seven helicopters: three single-engine light patrol-observation helicopters, two multi-purpose small two-engined helicopters and two tactical helicopters for police anti-terrorist units. For this purpose, financial resources have been guaranteed in the budget. The matter of buying two helicopters for the police counter-terrorism service was explained yesterday at the meeting of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. The chief of police, because it is the police that makes these purchases, explained in detail how far it was possible at this stage, the issues related to this purchase, with this order, as well as with another order - three single-engine helicopters. The Commission accepted this information. To date, public procurement procedures have been launched for the purchase of two tactical helicopters for police anti-terrorist units - and I would like to make this very clear - and three single-engined light patrol-observation helicopters. The remaining three are planned to be purchased by 2020. Last sentence on the Border Guard. It is currently conducting a public procurement procedure for the purchase of two multi-engined aircraft to perform patrol tasks over maritime areas. It is also planned to initiate a procedure for the purchase of a single multi-purpose helicopter with an air observation system. So these purchases will be made in a short period of time, and for years they have been waiting for this, the status of the air fleet will be significantly improved, and negligence is very long, many years. [[Three years is coming. You just promise, and you don't do anything.]] I remind you, helicopters are even 47 years old. Yesterday I was joking that one of them was only a year younger than your chief of police. Before we proceed to the next stage of this point, you will allow me to greet, at the request of the Member, young people from Ostrów in the district of polczycko-sędziszowski. Enjoy your stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] I don't know where the kids come from. on the other side of the balcony of the plenary room, but I also greet you. [[Voice from the hall: Greetings too.]] I wish you a successful stay in the Seym and positive impressions from this place. And now we are continuing this item. I thank the Minister for his speech. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. I therefore close the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! He is pleased that the Members of the opposition are interested in, care about the state of Polish aviation, i.e. the supply above all of our Armed Forces. We all know there's been a problem with that for years. In my opinion, the main cause of this situation is the present dysfunctional weapons acquisition system for the needs of the Armed Forces. The system that was built in the days of Minister Klich is functioning in such a way that it is difficult to expect positive results. The individual elements of this system are placed on different vertical levels, at different levels of subordinates, and this makes the proceedings bureaucratic, lasting for years, hindering the implementation of modernisation programmes. Minister, I would like to address Minister Skurkiewicz, is it true that for the first time the current management of the Ministry of National Defence has appointed a proxy for the creation of a unified system, a single institution, which, like the institution existing with our allies, is to organize efficient arms purchases for the Polish Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Generals! Minister Skurkiewicz tried to hypnotize us in his speech, but it wouldn't work. You are trying to convince the High House that everything is okay, but Poles know that it is not okay. 2,5 years Nothing's going on. There were supposed to be helicopters for the Polish army and Polish soldiers are deprived of this equipment by decisions which were taken. Polish aviation potential was to be expanded, among others. Military Aviation Plant in Łódź was to be guaranteed to increase employment. The work, directly and indirectly, could have gotten 3,000. employees, in production, and then in servicing these helicopters. The Łódź University of Technology had a great chance, where a construction office was established, where at the expense of EUR 1 million a position was created to examine helicopter rotors. This potential is not being exploited. This is a photo from the Air Force Departments of October, right after the decision to terminate the caracale contract. In the picture is Minister Macierewicz, who, as we have just heard, participated in a traffic collision, was on board the car. The RMF just gave me that information. [[Get to the point.]] And Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Then they announced that 100 jobs would be created in Military Aviation Works in Łódź. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Have these jobs been created, and why has this promise not been fulfilled? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u114	Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Indeed, the calendar of promises made by Mr Macierewicz's former head of national defence is so extensive that it would probably take all the time to quote only those words, and the wording of the question, soon, this year, January, January, etc., etc., etc. We still remember. Exactly from 11 October 2016: We decided that this year - this year, 11 October 2016 - at least two helicopters from Mielce will be delivered, in 2017 there will be eight helicopters, and then 11. It's about Mielec. And in Świdnik, who may be a little more interested in me because of local patriotism, the Prime Minister who was there at the time also on October 10, 2016 - this is what you did - she said: We care about modern equipment, safe equipment and one where the construction of companies will prepare new technologies. This is also equipment prepared in Poland. Well, there were specific assurances, specific deadlines, and it was done by the highest representatives of the government, the state. At least there are no longer in these positions, Minister Macierewicz, there is no Prime Minister anymore, they no longer perform these functions, but there is a camp of power which created these countries, there are bets, there are these helicopter companies, not quite Polish, as the Prime Minister proclaimed, but there are, and there are employees, there are crews. So the question is, why don't the new team, the new minister, tell us what's next? Mr Cezary asked about the Łódź, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm gonna ask you about Świdnik and all the other places: What's it gonna be like with all the shopping, the bidding? Is this process really so dysfunctional and it will have to be done out of hand, with exclusion specifically e.g. A twig? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u116	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u117	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Generals! In order to supplement Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz's statement, I would like to ask such a short question: Can the Ministry of Interior and Administration buy under Article in the light of the applicable law. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union helicopters, excluding Public Procurement Law, but including Polish business? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What kind of Polish helicopters do we have?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about Polish, military aviation. First of all, we should be talking about the lack of equipment for this aviation. This Government of Law and Justice in 2016, several months after the takeover of power, cancelled the tender, I stress: the tender. The settlement of this tender gave the opportunity to equip Polish aviation, the Polish Armed Forces with equipment for carrying out tasks. [[Room voice: Caracale.]] It is not at the moment a question of political responsibility that this tender has been cancelled. This is a legal responsibility, even from the Penal Code, which means that this government has led to equipment leaving the service and has nothing to replace it. Soldiers, for example. 25. Air Cavalry Brigades, they'll have nothing to do. Polish pilots, Navy aviation, as was mentioned, do not have equipment to carry out tasks. That's what we're talking about. These stories of Minister Macierewicz... This is actually the system you've created. In October 2016, he said: These two helicopters behind me will be sent to the Armed Forces this year, then eight, then 12. A circus on wheels just, a circus on wheels. Polish-Ukrainian helicopters. Remember all that bullshit and andronics? This is your piece of equipment for the Polish Army. But you did one thing: even one helicopter for the Polish Army, but five planes for the transfer of power, five planes for over PLN 3 billion... [[And a broken bmw.]] ...of which three planes bought without a tender. The Responsible Service, the National Board of Appeal, such a court on public procurement, the institution subject to the government on this contract concluded that the MON acted in advance [[♪ The bell ♪]] the intention to order this order to a specific contractor, although he knew that there were eight others who could perform this task. You're building a new order system? You built it. Manipulation, dishonesty. You have no right to speak of honesty until you explain this invitation to tender. 2.5 billion PLN without a tender? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u120	Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2.5 billion PLN without a tender. And this is a dysfunctional system, Mr Michale Jach. That's how you give public money away. This is your idée fixe for the development of a system, a new system that will carry out the technical upgrade of the Armed Forces. And get rid of Minister Macierewicz. Get that minister out of here, because he's bad luck for you, he's crashing more cars. Besides, I am very sorry that it attracts such misfortunes, and it attracts misfortunes, and I hope that these words do not turn against you. High Izbo! Unmanned aircraft is another problem which remains at the level of Mr Macierewicz's fantasy with his former assistant Misiewicz. Thousands of drones for the Polish Armed Forces. A year ago, it was promised. What's the Ministry doing on this case today? Minister, what are you doing about unmanned aircraft, the Mirosławiet base of unmanned aircraft and the implementation of a grand plan for extremely needed aircraft from the point of view of the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces? These are all dreams and your promises as well. What's the government doing about it? I'll use Italian words, dolce far niente... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...sweet nonsense. This fits perfectly with what's going on at the Ministry of National Defense today. Minister Błaszczak does not appear as Minister of National Defence at all. Did Minister Błaszczak... [[Obedience.]] ...does he work at all? Obedicated, not working. The clone, the Polish Pentagon, is controlled by Minister Macierewicz. It all translates into the fact that you are not implementing the program to modernise this part of the Armed Forces. Where are the drones, Minister? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There are andronics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u122	Mr Marek Polak, please, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u123	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In December last year representatives of the Ministry of National Defence signed an agreement with the Polish Aviation Union Warsaw-Okęcie SA for the modernisation of 12 training aircraft of the type Orlik, the value of which closes in the range of PLN 186 million. These aircraft under this agreement are to be radically modernised to meet the latest global aviation standards and are intended to be used for the basic and advanced training of military pilots in the field of piloting and navigation under different weather conditions. I'd just like to ask you one quick question. I would like to ask whether the work set out in this agreement has already been started, and if so, is there nothing to prevent it from being completed within the prescribed time limit, i.e. in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, is another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In individual military units there is a catastrophic situation related to delays in the delivery of modern equipment for transporting soldiers. For example, what's the status of the rescue helicopters used by our Navy? This army has 10 such helicopters, three of which are in the process of remodeling, which will last until the end of this year, and two have not been planned for modernisation, so the possibility of using them will end at the end of this year. There are problems with keeping on duty. The Navy is doing everything it can to make sure that doesn't happen. Yet Minister Macierewicz assured that the contract for the delivery of new helicopters would be signed by the end of 2017. A general statement has recently appeared that the Armed Inspector is preparing changes to the documentation included in the invitation to submit final offers. But so what, there's no deadline. This is one of many examples of negligence and promises that are not covered. The other one's an air cavalry brigade in Glinnik. This year, ladies and gentlemen, we have a century of Polish military aviation and equipment, which should have been scrapped long ago. Unfortunately, that is the bitter truth about Polish aviation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u126	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contains the following provision: any Member State may take the measures it considers necessary to protect the essential interests of its security which relate to the production or trade of arms, ammunition or war material. Gentlemen of Ministers! Here's a few questions. MON and MSWiA use this option every time they buy, how much is it allowed? Second question: Does this mode allow you to obtain in addition to significant benefits for your home industry, among others. technological development, organizational development, revenue growth, also optimal price? And after analyzing the speeches of the total opposition, I also have a question: How many predecessors have purchased the equipment, and where would we really go with caracals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u128	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The dream of a great purchase for the Polish army of 50 helicopters plus offset carrying modern technologies aroused the imagination of Poles. The vision of joining an international European group gave the idea of cooperation not only to the Polish Armed Group, but also to local governments, universities, institutes and Polish companies. Local governments of the Łódź, Mazowieckie and Lublin provinces signed a letter of intent in order to create the Aviation Upland. Air bases in Łask, Radom and Dęblin in cooperation with the Polish Armed Group and Polish co-operatives, subcontractors, supported by universities and institutes, among others. The Institute of Aviation in Warsaw, was to develop the latest technologies in the system from the idea through scientific research to the implementation of the product into the aviation, helicopter and space industry. Radom University of Technology and Humanities participated in design and research work, which resulted in an innovative winch model that could be used in all types of helicopters. Minister Skurkiewicz, we represent both Radom region, a region degraded after the arms industry. Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz has established the seat of the Polish Armed Group there and to this day this seat has not been built. Will this headquarters rise in Radom? Because she also has an impact on aviation. That's one question. Is it planned to purchase helicopters for Polish aviation with offset, along with access to modern technologies? Are the hopes of cooperation between local governments, universities and industry still real? Is Radom on the investment map of the aviation industry? Are we going to get it, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A chance to access state-of-the-art technologies for the development of the entire Radom land? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u130	Thank you. Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform, please, another speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'd like to get back to the case of helicopters for the police. Indeed, yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, information was presented, which was forced by Members of the Civic Platform, and this extortion was due to the fact that it was quite mysterious and there is a procedure for the purchase of two helicopters for the counter-terrorism service this time. Of course, General Szymczyk, Chief of Police, explained the matter in quite detail, saying that the free-hand procedure was necessary, because certain requirements concerning parameters and various other functionalities which should have been met in the case of the Police could not be published, therefore it was done in a free-hand manner. This, of course, is necessary and it is difficult to question. On the other hand, it is completely incomprehensible why there was no information - nevertheless it is public money - that such a purchase is being prepared, implemented at all. It was only from the American company magazine that it was possible to learn that Poland is buying two helicopters at Lockheed Martin. It was about training future pilots. I think, sir, that although you have a formal justification, it is - although maybe it is a remark. rather to the Minister - if the funds are public, then the public, the public, cannot be surprised by the information that comes to us from the outside. This information, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are public, should be disclosed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u132	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We should start by saying that shopping for the army, because of the amounts that are huge, has always aroused and aroused great interest. The purchase price of military equipment is - according to a harsh assessment - about 30% the total cost calculated from the time of purchase to the time of disposal. It is therefore so important that the domestic arms industry has the greatest possible share in both the production process and the operation of this equipment. And the question is: Is it true that Poland's contribution to the production of Caracal helicopters was only about 10% Their values?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u134	Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Officers! High Izbo! Today, the Polish arms race is a chain of unfulfilled promises and examples of decision-making chaos in the Ministry of National Defence under the rule of the PiS. Minister, are helicopters more needed by Poland and the Polish army, or is Sunday, the apparent, fictional army of the Territorial Defence Army of the country? As the media reports today, it is the officers, the lecturers of the Military Technical Academy, who were to prepare the training of the officers of the Territorial Defence Army, who reveal to us the recordings of these briefings, which clearly show that this is fiction and apparent training of these officers, [[Applause]] which threatens the security of our country. Last year, Minister, PLN 1.5 billion was spent on the Army of Territorial Defence of the country. The contract for caracals was broken for 13.5 billion and 50 helicopters, which were to be purchased with offset. By reassigning this 1.5 billion, the army would have at least nine helicopters on its equipment. And if the Polish army were no longer to benefit from this, perhaps it would be worth to give the 1.5 billion to parents of people with disabilities who are currently on strike and also have their protests in our Seym. I also have a question about the legal and financial consequences that threaten Poland for breaking the contract for the purchase of Caracal multi-purpose helicopters, because we know that the French have already submitted a request to the arbitration tribunal, accusing the Polish government that they were conducting apparent negotiations without the will to conclude the agreement. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u136	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. I would like to ask the honourable Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u137	Gentlemen of Ministers! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the purchase of four more M-346 aircraft for the training of Polish pilots in Dęblin, which is particularly close to me as a training base located in Lublin. I would like to ask whether the MON is planning to launch an option to purchase such aircraft in the future. If so, when is such a purchase planned? In Lublin, we are all very interested in ongoing procedures concerning the purchase of helicopters for the Polish Army's needs. I remind you that PZL-Świdnik is one of the largest and most modern employers in Lublin and as the only Polish plant participates in both proceedings, i.e. for the purchase of helicopters for both special forces and for the fight against submarines for the Navy of the Republic of Poland. For us, parliamentarians from Lublin Voivodeship and residents of this voivodship, both proceedings in the context of the future of PZL-Świdnik are important subjects of interest. Would the Minister like to inform us when the MON intends to publish final offers in both of them. Tendering? On this occasion, I would like to remind you that PZL-Świdnik offers the Navy of the Republic of Poland tested in the battle against submarines of the AW101 Merlin helicopter, whose only competitor is the French Caracal helicopter, which is widely known to have no version to combat submarines. Is the MON aware that only one of the helicopters offered meets the requirements of the tender and therefore intends to allow the Caracal helicopter to take part in the aforementioned. An invitation to tender? How is this tender going to be settled in this context? Is it true that Mr Buzek, the former Prime Minister of Poland, after learning about the decision taken by PO-PSL on the purchase of Caracal helicopters, said: I do not imagine that France, the USA or any other country that produces two nice helicopters on its territory, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] buys the whole world, decides to buy other machines? So I think today, pouring crocodile tears behind Caracal, which the French themselves don't want, [[Joy in the Chamber]] is simply an act of complete irresponsibleness of the previous managers of the defence department. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Please don't speak for the French.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u138	Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 29 February 2016 in response to Interpellation No. 949 on the situation of the Polish marine rescue forces, I received information, quote: The technical modernisation plan of the Polish Armed Forces for the years 2016-2022, provides for the acquisition by 2019 for the Navy Air Brigade of six helicopters in search and rescue version based on a common base platform. The acquisition and introduction of new helicopters into the equipment of the Polish Armed Forces depends on the completion date and the results of the ongoing tendering procedures for multi-purpose helicopters. That was over two years ago. I think that's enough time for the commitments made. Therefore, I would like to know the state of supply in helicopters for marine rescue. What is the number of functional units, and how are the currents of their services? In addition, I would like to know what the operating range of helicopters is and how long they are in the air. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u140	Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Modernization of the Polish army, including the Polish military aviation, is a particularly important and important subject due to the geopolitical location of our country, as well as due to the continuing armed conflict in Ukraine. I would like to stress that modernization of Polish military aviation in the context of the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army should be in line with applicable standards, and here it is worth noting that in NATO alone there is no single common strategy or methodology on this type of machine, because it depends on the country's doctrine. It is worth noting that in Poland there are airlines producing modern, proven combat helicopters. For example, in Mielec plants a Black Hawk helicopter is produced capable of performing, after rapid reconfiguration, functions as typically transport as well as combat. It is worth adding that the use of indigenous weapons facilities in many NATO countries is almost normal. For example, in Germany, the government has allocated nearly EUR 1 billion to carry out a general overhaul of 104 battle tanks, which will be carried out by the German company. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And who was supposed to do that?]] It is therefore worth linking the topic of modernization of Polish military aviation with the development of native weapons facilities, as our neighbours and other NATO countries do. Minister! Is it true - the principle firmly respected by our NATO allies - that equipment is bought primarily in its own country? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u142	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! An important issue for each maritime state, and Poland certainly belongs to such, is the ability to perform marine rescue and search tasks. We have two bases in this regard: Gdynia and Darłów. We also know that this service has been struggling with equipment problems for years - including those modern helicopters that are capable of carrying out these tasks. The invitation to tender for the purchase of 50 multi-purpose helicopters also took into account the needs of the Maritime Search and Rescue Service. Unfortunately, for unknown reasons, this tender has been cancelled by the government, which also means that we have been deprived of units that may have been included in the Marine Rescue Service. We've lost priceless time. This is a very big loss for the service and for all those who work at sea and expect safety. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. When will the government carry out the purchase of helicopters for the marine rescue service? What's the schedule? What kind of helicopters are they gonna be? What's the cost of these purchases? When will the Navy be enriched with this equipment? Because he's very, very expected. I say this as a Member from Pomerania, where such maritime matters are very important and very important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u144	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We have heard here from Minister Jarosław Zieliński that helicopters in internal service are already very slow and well served. They're 20 years old, 23 years old, 28 years old, and 47 years old. So I ask the Minister to answer: How many pieces of helicopter equipment and what kind did the PO-PSL coalition government purchase at a time when he was in power in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u146	Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Generals! High Izbo! The Act of 25 May 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland contains a provision on the fixed amount spent on the modernisation of the army. Between 2001 and 2014 this was 1.95% GDP from the previous year, followed by 2% by 2017. GDP from the previous year and 2% since 2018 growing to 2.5% in the end in 2030 Minister! Therefore, I have a question: Is it true that during the entire period of this provision only in the years when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party coalition ruled, the MON budget was not used in its entirety, which caused that more than 12 billion PLN was not spent on national defence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u148	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Officers! High Izbo! Democracy is beautiful, it is wonderful, but sometimes it has a certain disability, because it forces us to discuss with people through whom hypocrisy speaks almost entirely. That is how it is today, during this debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, speaking by Members of the total opposition about negligence in the Polish Armed Forces is something hypocritical, absurd, even harmful to the Polish state. It is harmful, because from the mouth of the state we had the opportunity here to hear a huge concern about the French, about the contract on caracale. And where is the Polish state right? Where is the concern that might sound during your reign when it comes to the Polish arms industry? In his speech, Mr Grabarczyk was ironically trying to tell us that we are trying to hypnotize you, hypnotize the Poles. Mr President, we could say a little ironic that you wanted to enchant us, i.e. Enchant us with your charm. Unfortunately, it didn't work. As you can see, today you are sitting in Parliament's benches, and you should speak the least about weapons, in connection with what the media you are calling for. Talking about something, about modernising the Polish army in your performance, also when it comes to aviation, is absurd. After all, there was one among you who said that Polish pilots should fly on the gate from the barn. Do you have the audacity to talk about the fact that we have some negligence after all the years you've caused such a mess? It's a shame. You have the opportunity to remain silent. You should use it. You should keep your mouth shut and apologize to the Polish people for causing such a mess. [[Buy more planes without tenders.]] [[Where are those helicopters? Three years!]] But just so we're clear... Dear ministers, I would like to ask you a simple question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How did this happen? Did your predecessors leave any documents in the drawers that would make us think that the Civic Platform with PSL thought about Polish defence, about the Polish state? Thank you very much. [[There's been a call for tenders.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u150	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Member who disturbed my previous speaker: 2,5 years - not 3 years - and 8 years is the difference, Mr, the fundamental one. Aviation is in the relatively best situation of all three main types of Polish Armed Forces. However, this does not mean that there are no problems. Much of the machines are obsolete and you should seriously consider what to do with this phantom. Hence the first question. Minister, do you have a long-term prospect of modernising the Air Force? The second question, I wouldn't have been myself if I hadn't asked it: Is it true that for eight years under the PO-PSL regime, the MON budget has not been implemented once, and the PiS government has already done so twice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u152	Thank you. And Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. I don't see a Member. Then it is Mr Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice. He's absent, too. [[Not interested.]] In that case, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Generals! High Izbo! I listened to this whole discussion and the way the ministers spoke, and I will honestly say that when the Polish army was equipped with multi-purpose helicopters, I did not get an answer. [[No.]] On the question of why the announcements of the national defence ministers are announcements without coverage, I did not get an answer. [[No.]] On the question of why the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration intended to secretly buy two helicopters without an appropriate tendering procedure, I did not get an answer. When the new rescue helicopters were introduced to the service, I did not get an answer either. [[We don't know.]] High Izbo! The statement here is that the system is dysfunctional and that there is too much bureaucracy. I'm asking you why you haven't changed this dysfunctional system for two and a half years, bureaucracy. [[They did, they buy without tenders.]] If necessary, you're pushing different laws with your knees. True, after that, these knees fail. But you have these tools in your hand, you have the majority of the Seym, you have the majority in the Senate, you have your president. Hurry up, if you wanted to - and wanted to - you'd definitely do it. Next thing. The meeting of the internal affairs and administration committee was held yesterday, among others. Also such a statement that MI-8 helicopters are being renovated in the Czech Republic... in Lithuania, I'm sorry. [[In the Czech Republic.]] I have a question about why in Lithuania. After all, the Military Aviation Plant in Łódź is renovating the MI-8 helicopters. Hence my question. [[You care so much about the Polish defence industry.]] Already abstracting from that $3,000. jobs that could be, abstracting from this opportunity, and this opportunity is called Łódź, its name is Military Aviation Plant in Łódź, its name is Łódź University of Technology, where there is a whole team of scientists prepared for such projects, I ask why you lost this opportunity and when these 100 jobs will be guaranteed in the aviation plant in Łódź. And just to remind you - listen, because this is also very important, very important - I will tell you how Minister Macierewicz... in fact what was the calendar of promises in 2015 and 2016. In October, when the Ministry of National Defence ended the offset negotiations with Airbus without success in 2015, a number of promises came out of Antoni Macierewicz's mouth: Soon, this year, January, maybe a maximum of the turn of January. I'd like to give you some examples. Namely, on October 10, 2016, Minister Macierewicz spoke about the purchase of Black Hawk helicopters: Soon, I hope, Polish special forces will fly such helicopters. Talks will start this week, and this year they will be crowned, and this year the first helicopters to carry out the exercises will be delivered to them. [[It's a different year.]] The Minister praised the potential of the Mielec plant. On 11 October 2016, the head of the MON promised: We decided that at least two helicopters from Mielce will be delivered this year. Later Minister Macierewicz repeated: This year, 2016, there will be two, in 2017, there will be eight, then 11. We're in 2018. Where are those helicopters? On 18 October 2016, Ms Beata Perkowska from MON informed that the head of MON invited three entities: PZL Mielec, Świdnik and Airbus to talk. This is about providing helicopters with an urgent operational need for PLN 1 billion. It is not known how this applies to Macierewicz's declaration literally from a week ago. On 20 October in the Seym Antoni Macierewicz announced the delivery of 50 helicopters to the Polish army by 2022. When you're no longer in charge? On TVP Info November 8 Antoni Macierewicz about his declaration on the purchase of black hawks in Mielec: She was never valid. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Pathological liar.]] On this basis you can say that I announced a purchase in Świdnik from Leonardo's company. In front of all companies, I proposed to participate in new proceedings, which will bring Poland fast, because next year, equipment with the first modern helicopters. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what they were called. stories [[♪ The bell ♪]] From moss and ferns. I would like you to finally tell me specifically when there will be helicopters for the Polish army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u154	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'm gonna answer the questions because there weren't enough questions for Homeland Security, much more questions for the MON. Firstly, I would like to say, once again, because yesterday I spoke very clearly about this in the committee, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not make purchases, does not conduct tendering procedures, procedures resulting from the contract law. Helmet purchases are made by the Police Headquarters. There's a difference, and it's basic. In fact, there is a fundamental legal difference. [[But still, the Ministry's oversight...]] The question of Mr Lassoty is why there was no public information on the purchase of helicopters for the police, the two in connection with which a public contract takes place. There's no obligation. The relevant public procurement authority has of course been informed of this and this is in accordance with the procedure, but there is no legal requirement to make such information public or to inform, I apologize for the malice, e.g. Mr Lassota. Mrs Szymańska asked how many helicopters for internal services were purchased by the PO-PSL coalition government. I reply: the government of the PO-PSL coalition for internal services did not purchase any helicopters during its 8 years. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Just like you.]] Mr Kaleta asked if there were documents that would testify to the concern of the PO-PSL government for Polish aviation. I understand it's military aviation and internal services aviation. I answer: there were no documents that would testify to any concern, plans, intentions of the PO-PSL coalition government. [[What about the tender documentation?]] I am responsible for my ministry right now, and I can certainly say that, while Minister Skurkiewicz will be responsible for the Ministry of National Defence. As to whether the question of Mr Paweł Bejda, the applicant, about the repair of Mi-8 helicopters, was won by this company, which is making these repairs in Lithuania. Thank you very much. [[Ooh...]] [[Amazing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u156	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for Mr Cezary Grabarczyk: In connection with whose statement have you submitted a request for correction? [[Mr Kaleta mentioned me by name.]] Your MP? There you go, sir. You've got 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In corrigendum mode. My statement by one of the Members of the Law and Justice has been misunderstood. This Member refuses another Member's right to participate in the debate, to express himself in an area which coincides with his work in the Committee on National Defence. This is an outrage. We will not get used to the fact that PiS and his Members will impose on Members of the opposition what to do in the High House. I was talking about the fact that Law and Justice broke off the successful tender for the purchase of 50 multi-tasking helicopters, which are needed by the Polish army. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Until now, there is not even a deadline for submitting offers for the purchase of those helicopters that are necessary for the Special Forces, the Navy, marine rescue. And that's a scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u158	I would like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Generals! Officers! High Izbo! Those questions that were addressed to the Ministry of National Defence are several. I hope I can answer all of them, but at the beginning, a few words about history. [[You have a minister for seven hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army is particularly important. That's what the Government of Law and Justice thinks, and that's probably what the PO-PSL government thought. You have conducted the procedure of purchasing multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army for practically 8 years of your government and have not brought it to an end, so it is worth saying a few sentences about history at this point. [[It's a shame for the minister to say such things.]] The Civic Platform together with PSL in PMT by 2022 guaranteed, whether it intended to guarantee for the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army a considerable amount of PLN 11 billion. It was about buying, attention, 70 multitasking helicopters. That was the plan. And then? And then it happened differently. Not 11 billion for 70 machines, 13.5 billion for 50 machines. [[Offset.]] [[It's better not to have one at all.]] Turns out they'd be the most expensive helicopters in the world. There's no more expensive. No army of the world, not even the richest, would have expensive helicopters. [[We'll see how you buy it. Ours were in the tender, and you had no tender.]] [[Where are yours, cheaper?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about multitasking helicopters. You must be familiar. In the media, I hope that also in these French, they were reported, as Caracal helicopters have been grounded for many months, what problems the French army has with these helicopters. [[Embarrassing level, I'm leaving.]] A few words about history. Agreement signed by the Government of the Civic Platform for delivery, among others. Mr. Czesław Mrozek, who came out of the room together with Minister Tomasz Semoniak, was concluded in September 2015. Offset negotiations started in September 2015. It is worth noting that decisions on the part of the Ministry of National Defence ended in September 2015. Offset negotiations are based on the fact that two parties have to agree between each other on the involvement of industry on one side, on the other hand, in technology transfer. And like in the negotiations, they can either end in a positive or a negative result. Of course, we cannot afford, as Poles, to reduce our economic potential in any way, and we also expected technology transfer. You were expecting to be the government of the Civic Platform because it was you who pointed out the guidelines for offset negotiations. After all, you've been talking to the French, with Airbus Helicopters, you've established shore conditions. What changed after September 15th, just in the second half of September, October, November? What happened to those French... [[Berczyński's in the game.]] ...who so gladly and willingly ate out of your hand - or you ate out of their hand - then they withdrew from these obligations... [[And he finished off the caracale.]] ...which they pre-arranged in relation to the Polish government? Well, what happened? But the Government of Law and Justice could not allow Poland in any way to be dealt with in these negotiations. And it was the French who abandoned further negotiations, not the Polish government... [[You're gonna be explaining this for sure.]] ...only the French, failing to comply with their obligations towards the Polish government, to the government of the Civic Platform. So much for history. I was very hurt by the words that Mrs Kaminska said - populist, unfair and dishonest. I am sorry, Mrs President, that I must say this because you are a member of the Committee on National Defence and I very much appreciate working with you in the Committee on National Defence, but you are fully aware that populist speaking, saying that this money could be used for people with disabilities... You know that this is not feasible, because there are financial resources that are absolutely dedicated... [[Can you play benches?]] ...security, national defense. They go in this one direction and nowhere else, they don't go sideways. [[What do you need benches for?]] And you know that, you know that, Mrs President. [[You've moved money from MON to various other resorts.]] Member, you know that this is impossible. You know this is impossible. [[Anything is possible in your country.]] I know they're also abhorred by the Army of Territorial Defence. It is a pity, and we could do something cool together as Poles, as parliamentarians - regardless of which side of the political dispute we are on. You didn't make it. We did it. But that doesn't mean you have the right to completely contest what's going on right now because you're insulting... [[Nothing's going on, nothing's going on.]] ...Polish soldiers, thus insulting the soldier's uniform. [[I didn't insult you, I didn't.]] You are absolutely dishonest in your statements. I'm sorry to have to say this from this podium, but these are unfortunately facts. [[I'm sorry.]] I wanted to say a few words about Tomasz Mazowiecki, 25 o'clock. Air Cavalry Brigade. The process of upgrading W3 helicopters has begun... [[The fair ones were a dollar mist.]] ...to a new version to improve their tactical and technical capabilities. On the one hand, modern, very modern weapons system, which will be such effective fire support, on the other hand modern avionics, modern cabin equipment will improve such a specific situational awareness if we are talking about helicopters used in 25. Air Cavalry Brigade. So much attention has been paid to helicopters for marine activities. 8 helicopters W3 Anaconda it is a security, a full 24-hour on-call security at two on-call points - in Gdynia and Darłów. It is worth noting here that additional 24-hour shifts also include the M28 Bryza aircraft in Cewice. Currently, the system provides an effective response to events in the Polish area of rescue responsibility. As far as that's concerned, there are absolutely no problems. If we're talking about unification of W3 helicopters for medical rescue, two contracts have been concluded. The first, for the modernisation of five helicopters, is realized - five upgraded helicopters were received. The second concerns the modernisation of three helicopters. This is currently underway, in the course of action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Reception dates: first machine - 1 October 2018, second - 31 March 2019, third - 1 April 2019 This implementation, these modernisation measures, will allow for the implementation of maritime rescue tasks. As far as coverage is concerned, because that was the question, it is 150 km. That's the range. It completely covers the area of responsibility for which we, as the Polish army, are responsible in the Baltic Sea basin. Another question, Mr Suski, is the question of unmanned aircraft. Two procedures are under way for the acquisition of unmanned aircraft under the Orlik programme. This is class. Tactical short-range. The second program, the visionary, are unmanned mini-class aircraft. That's what's going on right now. There are preparations for other programs regarding the delivery of unmanned aircraft for the Polish army. [[What about WZL and 100 jobs?]] Your Marshal, it's still...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u160	Please answer the question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Military Aviation Works in Łódź - thank you for your concern and I assure you that the existence, functioning and development of this facility is also covered by the special concern of the Ministry of National Defence and the Government of Law and Justice. For the next 2 years, this facility is fully secured, secured capacity, production capacity. It's okay, and it's gonna be... [[But jobs.]] ...Mr. Minister, even better. When it comes to creating new jobs, we have a lot of problems not so much about creating jobs as about acquiring - if we are talking about companies bought within the Polish Armed Group, also aviation companies in Łódź, but not only - a workforce that could produce in these plants. This is one of the problems, first of all, we need to lean on it, but also, together, I think, on the one hand, on the training of young engineering staff, the new engineering staff, and on the other hand, it is a competition in this technical area, because that is a very big problem. It is very often the case that bets have to eat people from other segments, other professions, to work in these specific specialty professions. It's just that it's redesigning them or decaling them, teaching them new professions, because unfortunately, over the last few years, as far as vocational education is concerned, there have been a lot of problems and delays. I'll say it again: it's okay, and it's just gonna be better. A little trust... [[Hypnosis isn't working.]] ...to the government of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 44 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights (prints 2232 and 2491). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. I would like to remind you that this submission is adapted to European Union law and is intended to implement the 2014 Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights in the Polish legal order and to grant multi-territorial licences on online rights to musical works in the internal market. The transposed Directive specifically regulates almost all aspects of the activities of collecting societies, management bodies. In the preamble, this complexity of legislation is justified by significant differences in national rules governing the functioning of collecting societies, in particular as regards their transparency and accountability to their members and rightholders. The main objectives of legislation are: to ensure coordination of national rules on the conditions for taking up activities in the field of copyright and related rights management and to lay down requirements to ensure a high level of financial management and management and transparency and reporting. The explanatory memorandum of the government project states that the directive harmonises the principles of collective rights management organisations and related rights, i.e. primarily rights to works, artistic performances, phonograms and videograms - to some extent, the rights to publications and press are also managed collectively. After the first reading of the Government's submission at the meeting of the Sejm, the Sejm sent them to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, decided to hold a public hearing on this draft law, which was held on 14 March this year. The hearing was attended by 61 people representing, apart from collective management organisations, especially creative, journalistic and cinematic associations, as well as trade unions of cultural artists, artists, authors, publishers and entities such as the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications, the Polish Chamber of Books and the Chamber of Press Publishers. Following a public hearing, the committee called for an extraordinary subcommittee to consider the government draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. The subcommittee considered the bill at its meetings on 20, 21 and 22 March and on 11 and 12 April of this year. The Committee on Culture and Media adopted a subcommittee report with 7 abstentions. During the work of the Sub-Committee and the Commission, a number of legislative, linguistic, clarification and codification amendments and substantive amendments have been introduced in the draft, including in response to comments made during the public hearing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft law annexed to the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u162	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. But before we begin these statements, I wanted to greet the students of the School-Preschool Team No.1 in Gliwice and the School-Preschool Team in Poniszowice. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay and positive impressions from this place. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr. Piotr Babinetz of Law and Justice to present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights, print No. 2232 and print No. 2491, the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. This law follows a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union which entered into force in April 2014 and its implementation into Polish law expired in April 2016. Therefore, it is urgent to implement this directive into the Polish legal order. Here some things have already been said by the President on behalf of the committee, so that I will only add that a public hearing took place on 19 March this year, during which the authors made very many valuable comments, proposals, and general opinions and observations concerning, among other things. for greater protection of the rights of Polish artists. Among them were musicians, such as bass guitarist Budki Suffler or one of the Trubadurians, as well as author of legendary text or, perhaps it would be better to say, outstanding autobiography. Next, an extraordinary subcommittee was working closely on the bill, including with a strong government commitment, at five meetings in March and April, and finally at the Committee on Culture and Media. Since matter is as important as and complicated, despite the adoption of extremely numerous amendments in the course of this work, the Law and Justice Club still notes the need to clarify certain entries. Therefore, your marshal, on behalf of the club, I present seven more amendments and their justification. Maybe just a little bit of justification. The first amendment aims to improve the wording of the provision to make it clear, in line with the intention of the projector, that the obligation to make a declaration concerns a candidate to assume the role of the manager of the body responsible for carrying out collective management activities and not a person already actually managing the activities of the organisation. Before the date of taking up that function, and that is when it is to make an appropriate statement, it may only be a candidate for it. The second amendment aims to add to the obligation to make available information also the obligation to make documents available. In this way, the proposed wording of the Article. 49 corresponds to the wording of the article. 50 of the proposed law, explaining potential interpretation doubts as to whether the contract may also contain an obligation to make certain documents available. In practice, such an obligation arises on several occasions from the contract. In the case of the third amendment, there is a clear elimination of the question of interpretation related to the number of arbitrators. Thus, by stating that there are 20 of them, the indication that the committee is composed of a chairman and 20 arbitrators shall be deleted. The chairman of the committee shall be elected from among the arbitrators, although he shall not rule on the individual cases which the committee considers. In addition, the amendment corresponds to the wording of the Article. 67 and Article 67 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning In the case of Amendment 4, the aim is to eliminate the question of interpretation as to the length of the term of office of the arbitration panel appointed in place of the arbitration panel whose term of office has expired. In this way, the provision corresponds to the wording of the Article. 65 of the project, establishing a joint term of office of the Committee on Copyright. In the case of amendment 5, it is intended to add to the existing wording the reference to Article. 75. As a result of the adoption of an amendment to the catalogue of tasks of the chairman of the committee, the objective of assessing the impartiality of the composition will be added when it is appointed. In this way, the provision shall become fully consistent with Article. 75 proposed law. The sixth amendment aims to harmonise the scope of the Article. 80 with the scope of Article. 71, according to which one of the tasks of the chairman of the committee is to transmit to the Minister all decisions terminating the proceedings. Consequently, it is appropriate for the Minister to publish all such decisions in the BIP, all the more so as they concern matters relevant to many users of authors and related rights. And finally the last, seventh amendment. Its purpose is to clarify the subject of the statutory auditor's audit with regard to the financial data contained in the OZZ reports. From the current wording of the proposed article. 91 was not clear to what extent the statutory auditor would be obliged to examine the financial data contained in the basic report and the report on the enforcement of deductions. According to Art. These 91 figures should be based on accounting records. The proposed amendment to the audit report will indicate whether the above requirement, i.e. the use of the data resulting from the accounting records when drawing up the two reports has been met. Marshal, I'm handing over the corrections. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club supports the draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u164	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on collective management of copyrights and related rights, to which the report of the Committee on Culture and Media, contained in print No 2491, is based on a government proposal to comply with the 2014 European Parliament Directive. As you can see, the solutions contained in it are affecting a difficult, sensitive matter, and not since today giving rise to many conflicts between cultural artists and those entitled to receive the benefits they deserve. The EU Directive aims to harmonise the rules on the activities of collecting societies for the management of copyright and related rights within the territory of the Union, especially since one of the main elements of this Directive is the rules on multi-territorial licensing, on the rights to musical works, on-line use of them in the internal market. In analysing the scope of the implementation of the Directive in individual countries, two trends can be observed: literal and expanding. The Government of the Republic of Poland adopted an extension concept, to which it honestly admits, from the assumption that the practice of applying copyright in Poland revealed many shortcomings of previous solutions. Therefore, instead of an appropriate amendment to the present law, we are dealing with a new legal act which is excluded from copyright and related rights. This situation has created new challenges. The environments concerned had much more comments than the Directive itself could give birth to. The list of topics to be addressed in the context of the public consultation is a heavy volume submitted to the Sejm. It must be acknowledged that at the first stage of work on the bill, these challenges were being addressed. The Sejm accepted the request of the Civic Platform Club for a public hearing. Then a subcommittee was set up, which quite solidly broke through the next articles of the project. Although we were not given - we, or members of the subcommittee - to work with experts, the government made a whole package of self-corrections resulting from public hearing. Unfortunately, it didn't start so bad, but it ended badly. The report of the subcommittee was considered on Tuesday, in the situation of the besieged Sejm, when the right to enter this building was removed from the social side, and it is actually difficult to determine whether this final procedure was compatible with the standards of the rule of law. The Commission could only read the written comments of two backgrounds: PIKE and ZAiKS, but without the support of the printed argument, none of the Members proposed changes. It ended with the comments of the Legislative Bureau and their possible acceptance by the government party. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am a bit on procedural issues, but I would like to say that this way of working on laws, firstly, significantly restricts Parliament's role in law-making, secondly, is one of the reasons for the Sejm's production of specific bibles, which the rulers themselves must amend before the law enters into force. As I said, this bill is very difficult, it affects sensitive matter and in the end it is worth millions of zlotys, which will or will not hit Polish creators. I hope that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is aware of the extent of responsibility towards Polish creators. With regard to the substance, we need to point out the basic features of the new solutions. Not so much multi-territorial relations are the focus of attention, but the transition from court to administrative in dispute resolution, and thus a significant increase in the minister's role in regulating the market - that is what I write in quotes - copyright and related rights. The form of the Committee on Copyright is fundamentally changed, the level of autonomy of collective rights management organisations or related organisations changes substantially. There is no time to analyse specific legal solutions. The Civic Platform Club, which I have the honour to represent, is proposing an amendment - and, in fact, with consequences, it is seven amendments - which, despite the lack of expert support, we do not seem to have any doubts. This is precisely the shape of the Committee on Copyright. In practice, when the rightful and the users sit in front of each other, compromises are difficult or not at all possible. This encourages the introduction of force three into committee. We propose a return to 30 members of the Committee on Copyright, with this third force being the class representatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by academic law departments. Of course, just one more sentence, the Civic Platform Club will support this bill, because it is generally necessary, but in practice we will look closely at how it will be implemented, and I hope that our amendments will be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. You're welcome, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u166	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with the representative of the Kukiz club15 by Mr Piotr Apel. I don't see him present. Therefore, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u167	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Parliamentary Club will support this project and this bill, a long-awaited bill. But first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that during the last meeting of the Committee on Culture, during which we examined amendments to this law, during which we examined this law, it turned out that experts, people invited by the President, could not enter the Sejm. And this is something that cannot be tolerated, and this is something that is incompatible with the spirit of parliamentarianism, with the spirit of open democracy. How can such a serious document be dealt with without the participation of the most interested and competent people who are extremely deeply immersed in it? I think that Parliament should always use the consultation of people who are particularly competent and not get rid of them. What has been happening in the Polish Parliament for many months, or actually since 2,5 years, when the main attribute of our work are the gates before the Sejm and the police standing there, I must admit that this is something that makes a terrible impression on all those who are trying to enter the Sejm, and theirs is getting less and less. I find out that journalists have no right to take one-day passes. It's just an aberration situation. But, of course, we need to have a conversation about a bill that was being processed. One of the most pressing problems is the appointment of members of the panel within the Committee on Copyright. I think it is right to ask the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications to extend the proposed group of superarbiters, among which members of the panel ruling the Committee on Copyright would be appointed. This would help to restore a balance between the participation of creators and users, i.e. the most antagonized parties. In addition, please take into account the amendments tabled by ZAiKS by letter dated 30 April 2018. The proposed amendments to the bill only appear to appear to be cosmetic corrections. In fact, they change the nature of the law to be more suited to Polish realities, while at the same time not in conflict with the law of the European Union. The very fast procedure for this law is, of course, linked to the deadlines that the European Union has set for us, and we should simply give away as best as possible a project that is not too bureaucratic. It is worth going to Germany, where only those amendments that are necessary have been implemented. Of course, we are always more bureaucratic than all the other countries of the European Union and we are introducing them unnecessarily, creating additional problems. Anyway, the Messenger Club. Modern support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u168	Thank you, sir. We're going back to Kukiz15. Mr Piotr Appeal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u169	Thank you, Marshal. The Seym has accelerated a little, hence my lateness. I'm so sorry. The direction that has been adopted in this Act is generally good. Despite this, Kukiz15 wants to make two amendments to the article on the occasion. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and Article 5 Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. These are amendments that will strengthen the position of artists in a slightly unequal fight against producers, with those who want to distribute content e.g. through mobile devices. I'm gonna give you the marshal. I hope that the entire House will stand by the artists and will support the amendments made at the appropriate time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u170	Mr President, I understand that this signature is a signature. Paul Kukiz, right? [[Yes.]] Good. Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have been asked to ask the question at this point. You're welcome. Question time - one and a half minutes. As no one else comes forward, I am closing the list of Members who have enlisted in the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not a member of the culture committee, so maybe that's why I'm asking. I would like to ask: Does the law concern the protection of copyrights of works distributed over the Internet? This is particularly difficult to regulate. The European Parliament has already dealt with these issues during the 6th term of office. I would very much like to see that there is also a technical way to find a method for the real protection of copyright. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u172	Will the Ministry's representative reply to this, or will the Member reply as rapporteur for the committee? No. This please answer the question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Paweł Lewandowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As far as this question is concerned, the law essentially regulates the collective management organisation and internal structure, the method of settlement, the way in which contracts are concluded, the granting of multi-territorial licences and the organisation itself, and only to a small extent are possible additional provisions that would amend the copyright law, but it does not apply or regulate to any extent the prosecution of infringements of law on the Internet. This is the matter of a separate legal act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. [[Polish People's Party Association - Union of European Democrats]] [[PSL Parliamentary Club - ED supports the government draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. We treat the project as purely technical, adapting Polish copyright to the requirements of the European Union and the contemporary world.]] [[In particular, the principles governing the use of rights to works and their performances, phonograms and videograms and, to a large extent, the right to publication of books and press are governed by the procedure. The rules clarify the functioning of collecting societies such as the Polish ZAiKS and their representation of creators, performers, producers and publishers. They also make it easier for entrepreneurs, because once the new rules enter into force they will only be able to pay royalties in one collective management organisation.]] [[It should be noted that the process of proceding this law looked much better than in previous cases. 67 organisations were asked for opinions and some of their demands were included in the project. The point is that Members have not even been able to listen to all the comments and suggestions made by experts because of the ban on visas to the Sejm. For this reason, we will now adopt a law which could have been clarified much better, which would have been desirable due to the extremely complicated structure of the issues.]] [[However, PSL - ED members will vote in favour of the law also because the deadline for implementing the EU directive expired on 10 April 2016. Poland is therefore in theory threatening penalties for delay. However, we understand the explanation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage that the work was prolonged due to the complex subject matter. The argument that the law in the above form is to constitute the most comprehensive regulation of copyright in almost 100 years of Polish copyright law history should convince the EU Court of Justice not to impose a fine on Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the governmental draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. The purpose of this project is to implement Union Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2016 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences on online rights in musical works in the internal market. In view of the financial penalties that threaten us for a 2-year delay in the implementation of this document, it is important that the work on this project is dynamic and efficient. It is worth noting that although the applicable copyright law is often amended in connection with subsequent directives, this is the first act that comprehensively regulates the area of activity of collecting societies. As the Supreme Court points out in its opinion, the subject matter affected by this project is extremely complex and affects the conflicting interests of various influential groups. That is why regulation is so important, and the solutions proposed are so controversial. The project discussed today is very extensive. First of all, however, it should be stressed that by defining new rules for the functioning of collecting societies, the activities of collecting societies will benefit from transparency, which, according to the opinion, and as experience has shown so far, is very desirable. In addition, the provisions in question bring into legal order the definition of a representative organisation, order rules for the representation by collective management organisations of creators and performers who have not concluded collective management agreements, restrict OZZ's freedom to spend funds and strengthen the position of members that the OZZ will have to adopt if the person concerned fulfils the conditions of membership. The draft law discussed today is undoubtedly a desirable, thoughtful and holistic project covering issues related to the activities of collecting societies. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u176	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The next item, item 45, is to be the information concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, but since the same subject is being discussed in the Senate at the same time, I declare a gap until noon. 13.30 so that we can conclude there by discussing this point and that we can start at the Sejm meeting discussing the point concerning the Constitutional Court, its case law and the problems involved. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 03 hours 13 min 31]] I'll resume the session after recess. We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: Information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016 (print No 2305) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission (print No 2467). I ask the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You were informed of the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016, which was approved by a majority by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal on 8 November 2017. It is also available on our website. So I will not discuss in detail the issues and statistics contained in it. I will only draw attention to the most important issues in my opinion. The Constitutional Tribunal consists, as you know, of 15 judges. That's the constitution. There was, however, a time in the Court when its President thought otherwise and granted himself an unknown constitution and laws the power to decide who and when is the judge. Until 27 April 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal included: Andrzej Rzepliński - President, Stanisław Biernat - Vice President, Henryk Cioch, Mirosław Granat, Leon Kieres, Lech Morawski, Mariusz Muszyński, Julia Przyłębska, Piotr Pszczółkowski, Małgorzata Pyziak-Szafnicka, Stanisław Rymar, Piotr Tuleja, Sławomira Wronkowska-Jaśkiewicz, Andrzej Wróbel and Marek Zubik. On 28 April 2016, the term of office was opened by Judge Zbigniew Jędrzejewski, elected in place of Judge Mirosław Granat. On 20 December 2016, the term of office was opened by Judge Michał Warciński, elected in place of Judge Andrzej Rzepliński. I will remind you of the history of the recruitment of judges in 2016. The Constitutional Tribunal Act was adopted on 25 June 2015. It was a famous acceleration after President Andrzej Duda's election. On 8 October 2015, the 7th Sejm adopted resolutions on the election of five judges of the Tribunal whose term of office was to begin after the parliamentary elections. On 25 November 2015, the Sejm of the 8th term of office already adopted a resolution on the lack of legal force of the resolutions on the election of five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 October 2015, as these resolutions were taken in violation of the current procedure. On 2 December 2015, the 8th Sejm adopted a resolution on the election of five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. On 3 and 9 December 2015, properly elected judges took a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland. On 3 and 9 December, these judges appeared in the Court to take up the duties of judge. President Andrzej Rzepliński did not allow judges to perform their duties, which was an event in the history of the rule of law, because the President of the Constitutional Tribunal granted himself powers unknown both to the Constitution and to the Act. The five resolutions of the Sejm of 25 November 2015 on the determination of the lack of legal power of the resolutions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of 8 October 2015 on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were decisive for the proper cast of judges in the Court of First Instance. In support of the draft resolutions, it was stated that the selection of the TK judges carried out on 8 October 2015 was not legally effective and binding in connection with irregularities in the selection procedure. After the adoption of these resolutions, there were three unestablished judges in the Court: for the judges Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz, Wojciech Hermeliński and Marek Kotlinowski, as well as the end of the term of two judges: Zbigniew Cieślak - 2 December 2015 and Teresa Liszcz - 8 December 2015. Following the resolutions of 8 October 2015, on 2 December 2015, the Sejm elected five judges of the Tribunal: Henryk Cioch, Lech Morawski, Mariusz Muszyński, Piotr Pszczółkowski and Julia Przyłębska. The President took a vow from the judges elected on 3 December - 4 judges and 9 December - 1 judge respectively. On 3 December 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in its judgment on the signature K 34/15 on the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015. One of the provisions assessed was Article. 137 of this bill. This provision was unique to the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court, the deadline for the submission of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal for seats released in 2015. The Court found that Article. 137 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, in so far as it concerns the judges of the Tribunal whose term of office expires on 6 November 2015, is in line with the Constitution, whereas to the extent that it concerns the judges of the Tribunal whose term of office expires accordingly December 2 and 8th, it's against the constitution. The operative part of the judgment K 34/15 did not concern the persons selected on 8 October 2015. The selection procedure for a judge consists of several stages, and K 34/15 only concerned the first of them, i.e. the legal basis enabling applications to be submitted with candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The procedure initiated on 8 October 2015 was not finalised due to the errors revealed in the selection process, the adoption of resolutions of the Sejm of 25 November 2015 on the finding of a lack of legal force of the resolutions of 8 October 2015 and the selection of judges of the Tribunal on 2 December 2015. The Sejm, when adopting the resolution of 25 November 2015, did not know the judgment, because it had not yet passed, a tribunal with the signature K 34/15, which fell only on 3 December, so it cannot be read as a questioning of that judgment. The selection of judges on 2 December 2015 was merely the application of the provisions concerning the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in view of the need to fill the positions of judges. In its judgment of 3 December 2015, the Court of Justice ruled on the provisions of the Act, but did not assess the way in which the law was implemented, i.e. the act of choice of judges, since the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law and not a court of fact. In its order of 7 January 2016, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/1389 [2] appointing the members The U/15 Court found that the control of the acts of selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was not a matter for its cognitive purpose. The investigation into the constitutionality of the resolutions of 25 October 2015 and 2 December 2015 was terminated. Following the order of U 8/15, the President of the Tribunal included only two judges, i.e. Julia Przyłębska and Piotr Beszczółkowski. The President of the Tribunal, despite the lack of legal basis, did not include other judges who expected to take up their duties as judges. At the same time, he assigned them offices, granted leave of absence, paid remuneration and other benefits resulting from the employment relationship. Following the retirement of President Andrzej Rzepliński, the Act of 13 December 2016 entered into force. Provisions introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. On this basis, the President of the Republic of Poland entrusted the duties of the President of the Court of Justice Julia Przyłębska, the judges Henryk Cioch, Moravian and Muszyński to perform the duties of Judge of the Tribunal. The Act of 13 December 2016 required the judge acting as President of the Court to carry out the procedure for presenting candidates for the position of President to the President of the Republic of Poland. The General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was convened and held on the basis of the provisions of that law, in which 14 Judges took part. One of the judges was on leave, his absence was justified, and he also stated that he did not want to run for President of the Tribunal and therefore his passive electoral right was not violated in any way and that there was no need to change the date of the meeting. On the other hand, I would like to add that when the President of the Constitutional Court of Judge Rzepliński was elected, the situation was similar. There were only 14 judges, one of the judges was absent, his absence was justified. The election of candidates for the President of the Tribunal was made by a vote. Some judges did not vote, which did not affect the validity of the vote in view of the fulfilment of the requirements of the Article. 21 Provisions introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and a law on the status of judges of the Tribunal. In accordance with the explicit provision of this law, the election act in the form of a vote was also a resolution of the General Assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal in the election of candidates for President, which did not provide for for another separate vote on the resolution on election. Thus, the voting act in accordance with the applicable rules was a resolution and this was the formula. By the way, referring to the above-mentioned procedure when it comes to the election of President Rzepliński, then no resolution was taken and an extract from the minutes was sent to President Komorowski. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal appointed me, Julia Przyłębska, as President of the Court of 21 December 2016, from among the two candidates presented to him in the resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 defines the basis for the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. It refers to the law on the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the proceedings before the Tribunal. 2016 was the year of numerous amendments to the laws concerning the tribunal. In the first half of 2016, the Law of 25 June 2015, subsequently amended by the Law of 19 November 2015, by the Law of 22 December 2015, in part by the Law of 28 January 2016, was published on 8 March 2016. The selected provisions of the Act of 25 June 2015 in the original wording were examined by the Constitutional Tribunal in the case of signage. K 34/15, i.e. the judgment of 3 December 2015. At that time, the Court confirmed the constitutionality of the contested provisions relating to the organisation and procedure and, as part of the non-constitutional procedure, the provision concerning the time limit for the submission of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was recognised. The December amendment was the subject of a ruling by the Court in the sign case. K 47/15, issued on 9 March 2016. The Court acted here without the provisions of law in force at the time of judgment. The decision was not announced in the Official Journal of the Laws, which meant that it did not cause a change in the legal system. After 9 March 2016, the majority of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal issued decisions on the basis of such provisions of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, which would have been in force if they had decided on the signature. K 47/15 had legal effect in the legal system in the form of a derogation from certain legal provisions. At the same time, part of the judges did not agree to the application of non-binding legal provisions at the time of the ruling, as expressed in separate sentences submitted in cases pending in 2016. In particular, the formation of formation of formations, infringement of the rules concerning the order in which cases are dealt with, the time limits for the appointment of hearings and the presentation of positions by the parties to proceedings before the Tribunal and the recognition of cases in secret were raised in accordance with the law. In view of the situation, there has been a change in the rules on the functioning of the Court by means of the Law of 22 July 2016. It represented a return to the 1997 law in force for many years. It introduced only a few major changes, about seven articles, and the remaining dozen were intended only to bring the rules into line with others already existing in the legal system. Certain provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 22 July 2016 were challenged to the Court of Justice. The Court of Justice found the allegations on 11 August 2016 in the case of letters. K 39/16. The decision was issued on the basis of non-binding legal provisions and was not published in the Official Journal of the Laws. Irregularities concerning the grounds for judgment, in particular as regards the ruling in the composition of an unknown law, have been raised by certain judges in separate sentences. The end of 2016 brought another amendment to the rules governing the organisation and procedure of the tribunal. These provisions are contained in three laws: the Law of 30 November 2016 on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, the Law of 30 November 2016 on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Law of 13 December 2016. The Rules introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, the separation of its subject matter is intended to refer directly to the reference contained in the Constitution. The legislator considered it reasonable to create a separate law on the status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal as governing matters not falling within the category of organisation or in the category of proceedings before the tribunal referred to in Article. 197 constitutions. Separate treatment of the implementing rules is justified by the need to ensure consistency and transparency of the new rules. In 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal also operated on the basis of internal rules. On 15 September 2016, the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Statute of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal. Three judges of the Tribunal questioned the legality of the composition of the General Assembly. In 2016, the President of the Tribunal issued five regulations governing the functioning of the Tribunal. The powers of the Constitutional Tribunal include: ruling within the scope of the designated constitution on the hierarchical compatibility of rules, legal standards of normative acts in proceedings initiated by applications, constitutional complaints or legal questions; ruling in matters of conformity with the Constitution of the objectives or activities of political parties; resolving disputes of competence between central constitutional authorities of the State and establishing a transitional obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic of Poland and entrusting the Marshal of the Sejm with the temporary performance of the duties of President. The hierarchical control may be carried out in a preventive or follow-up control mode. Only the President of the Republic of Poland has competence to initiate preventive control. The subject of this audit is a bill submitted to the President for signature or presented to him for ratification of an international agreement. In 2016, the Court considered two cases initiated by the President in 2015 under preventive control. In 2016, the Court used its basic competence as [[♪ The bell ♪]] ruling on the compatibility of certain normative acts, standards and provisions with the higher-ranking acts referred to in the Constitution. Recognized cases... Is it over?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u178	It's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u179	No, I thought you were still...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u180	Madam President, allow me to finish. There's a time limit for speaking, so if you need more time... It's 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u181	But I didn't know the time was right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u182	The rules are widely available...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u184	...and the law is binding on the principle of universal knowledge. [[Applause]] How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u185	Okay, well, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u186	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u187	Good. No, I'll just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u188	Chairman, I'm asking... [[Voice from the room: An hour more.]] ...how much time you need. If I find out how much, I'm gonna extend this limit, no problem, just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u189	I, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u190	Tell me how much. Five minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u191	Two minutes. Two minutes, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u192	There you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u193	Since you have this information, so I will no longer divorce here, and I will only say that during the session of the Sejm committees on 30 April, the legality of the election of certain judges was questioned, and the nature of the resolution on the presentation of candidates for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to the President was raised. However, in the annual information, the legal situation was properly invoked. The General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was convened and held on the basis of the provisions of the Law introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Tribunal. As regards the absence of an additional vote on the presentation of candidates for the position of President, as I said earlier, it is necessary to recall the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The introductory provisions of the Act show that the results of the vote on the submitted candidates took the form of a resolution to be submitted to the President of the Republic of Poland by the General Assembly. The substantive explanation of issues relating to the composition of the Tribunal, the publication and nature of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal and the selection of candidates for President shall be included in the text of the annual information. The General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted a resolution on the adoption of the information in the wording submitted, which means that the objections raised do not have any legal effect and the observations submitted by the group of Judges are annexed to the minutes. It is normal procedure that the draft information is presented and the collegial body votes it. The majority of the collegial body, the General Assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal, voted this way. And I wanted to sum up to you that in 2016, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal was Judge Andrzej Rzepliński and he decided to decide not only who was to be the judge of the Tribunal but also who was to be the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and who was not to be the judge of the Tribunal. The doctrine clearly indicates the functioning of the so-called. principles of presumption of constitutionality of laws. And if we agree, I ask you that the judges decide for themselves what powers they have and choose for themselves which laws they have and which are not, the foundations of the democratic rule of law will be violated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u194	Thank you, President, for taking the floor. Another person to speak is Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, who will present the position of the committee. But before he does, you will allow me to introduce you, and I will basically greet the students of Stargard High School II who are guests of Mr Jacha. [[Applause]] I hope you will enjoy your time and make a positive impression. And now I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to speak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! Dear Marshals! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Legislative Committee on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016, print No 2305. After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 27 February 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission in order to familiarise these committees with the information of the Court. The Commission of Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission took note of the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016 at its joint meeting on 30 April 2018. During that meeting, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Ms Julia Przyłębska, presented to the parliamentarians the problems arising from the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal approved by the General Assembly of the Judges of the Tribunal and presented at the public meeting of the General Assembly on 20 December 2017. The Parliamentaries of the two joint committees had at their disposal the information submitted, which consists of almost 150 pages. It should be pointed out that this information sets out in a precise manner, firstly, the political position and competence of the Constitutional Tribunal, the selected issues arising from cases decided by the Tribunal in 2016, and in particular informs about the principles of the preliminary review of constitutional complaints and applications and the consequences of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal on the legislator and cooperation with courts. I will also provide information on the non-judgmental activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. Parliamentarians had the opportunity to read this information, which in a precise and synthetic manner presents all the issues arising both from the judicial work of the Court and from the selection of candidates for judges and judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It should be stressed that in 2016 the selection procedures for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were the subject of a heated, lively discussion. Unfortunately, this also involved a number of actions to be taken in 2016 as a result of the election by the Sejm of the previous term of office of the Civic Platform and the PSL of two judges in reserve. As we all remember, this choice of judges in reserve, which is... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: On the other hand.]] ...so to speak, the future involved the need for Parliament to take corrective action. These corrective actions led, as a consequence, to the annulment by the Sejm of the resolutions adopted in the previous term of office for which, as to be stressed, apologies were then made. I would like to remind you of the words of one of the parliamentarians, Mr Kropiwnicki, who apologized to the public, apologized to the Sejm for the adoption by the Sejm of the previous term of office of resolutions on the selection of judges in reserve. This situation has led, in a sense, to a constitutional crisis, to the need for remedial action, to the purpose and effect of bringing about a lawful state. Such action has been taken by the Sejm of this term of office. This involved the need for proper casting of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and consequently the annulment of the resolution adopted by the Sejm of the previous term of office. It is important to stress that this last time, the time taken to sanction the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, was linked to the unprecedented scale of attacks on judges elected in this term of office, including the unprecedented scale of personal attacks on the President of the Constitutional Tribunal - the President of Julia Przyłębska and the other judges. Let me remind you that there was no situation in the history of the Constitutional Tribunal that there would be attacks on such a scale, which unfortunately, I believe, was also the result of the death of two judges. I will remind you of the death of Judge Lech Moravian and Judge Henry Cioch, our fellow senator and fellow MP. This issue of the improbable scale of aggression, attack, humiliation, abuse of judges was also raised at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. As an experienced parliamentarians of the next term of office, I am very sorry to say that the completely unprepared parliamentarians of the Platform, often first term Members, have come to the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights only to insult, discredit, provoke and lead to a situation where the main purpose is to discredit the activities and composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. It must be made clear that this composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, chaired by the President of Julia Przyłębska, has been properly elected. Any suggestions on the composition are not allowed, because the election by the Sejm was properly made, and then all the judges were taken from them by the President of the jury. This situation therefore closes any dispute, annuls any controversy as to whether the tribunal was chosen correctly. In view of the above, it should be critically assessed that the vast majority of parliamentarians present at the committee's meeting critically assess the attitude and behaviour of some parliamentarians from the opposition, whose aim was not to obtain information about the activities of the tribunal, but merely to provoke and create a media hucpa around the adoption of the report. It should be stressed that the vast majority of parliamentarians were very positive and welcomed by the Constitutional Tribunal, by the President of Julia Przyłębska and by the judges chosen in this term. The activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, the quality of the caselaw and of course its level, were positively assessed and the decision to accept this information was taken without any objections. In conclusion, High Izbo, I would like to inform you that the combined: the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission have adopted information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal for 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u196	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016, print No 2305. I will also refer to the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee on this information, print No 2467. The year 2016 ended in the Constitutional Court under the legal mark, although to a large extent the socialised peri-tribunal disputes, the central issue of which was the question of the cast of the tribunal. The Court's assessment of Law and Justice included judges elected by the Sejm in the years 2007 and 2014 as well as five judges elected on 2 December 2015 from whom the President took the oath on 3 and 9 December. In other words, the tribunal included: Andrzej Rzepliński, Stanisław Biernat, Henryk Cioch, Mirosław Granat, Leon Kieres, Lech Morawski, Mariusz Muszyński, Julia Przyłębska, Piotr Pszczółkowski, Małgorzata Pyziak-Szafnicka, Stanisław Rymar, Piotr Tuleja, Sławomira Wronkowska-Jaśkiewicz, Andrzej Wróbel and Marek Zubik. On 28 April 2016, Judge Grenata was replaced by Judge Zbigniew Jędrzejewski, and on 20 December 2016 Judge Rzepliński was replaced by Judge Michał Warciński. The term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal also expired in December 2016. Judge Julia Przyłębska was elected president. In the assessment of Law and Justice, this choice has led to a calming of the situation and the return of the Court to normal functioning. This fact we consider important for the functioning of the judicial authority in Poland and we judge positively. As the President mentioned, 2016 marked numerous changes to the rules on the tribunal, and I would add that also the controversy concerning judicial activity. Most of them are known to the public, and some of them were mentioned by Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk just now. I'll draw attention to a few that might have slipped away. On several occasions, the Court's reference to the wording of the preamble to the need to ensure reliability and efficiency in the case of public institutions. It was possible to have the impression that the line between the constitutionality and legality of the law and the effectiveness of the law was thus blurred. The Constitutional Tribunal, like any constitutional court, is a court of law, not a court of fact. In examining the law, he examines its legality, its constitutionality. He's not testing his efficiency. It is Parliament that determines, adopts certain preferences regarding the effectiveness of the rules. Constitutional courts don't study efficiency. It is a fundamental distinction, its blurring shifts the burden of legislative power from Parliament to the Constitutional Tribunal. In 2016, we had the highest percentage of sentences passed in separate sentences since 1998, i.e. up to 44% and as much as 55% in the case of provisions. There has been a decrease in constitutional complaints submitted to the substantive diagnosis of an average of 18% Between 1997 and 2015 to 11% in 2016 Over 6-fold, with 3.7% to only 0.6% , the effectiveness of complaints against the refusal to grant further constitutional proceedings has also decreased. In short, it was more difficult for citizens to convince the tribunal to examine the constitutionality of the constitutional complaints with which they addressed them. In my view, in our view, this requires in-depth reflection. The positive thing is that numerically, because these are only two cases, and also the frequency of deferment of the current power term has decreased by a percentage. There's been at least 20 of them in the last 20 years. The deferral of the period of validity shall have its constitutional basis in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council There were good arguments for such an institution in the Constitution to be introduced. However, there are reasons for using this institution as reticently as possible, as it does not necessarily strengthen citizens' confidence in the right and constitution. With regard to the information made by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would also like to say that I cannot fail to refer to the committee's report and, in particular, to the conduct of the joint committees: the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Committee. This is about the provocative and offensive behaviour of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz and Kinga Gajewska. It is understandable that we can judge the facts differently. This also applies to the law. Criticism is possible and is a natural element of parliamentary debate, but it cannot turn into a hat. That kind of behavior is absolutely unsuitable. In particular, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's comments appear to be eligible for examination by the ethics committee. Unfortunately, we are too used to such a provocative, continuous, offensive act against the chairman of the committee and fellow Members, in particular at the meetings of the Committee on Justice. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I have great tolerance for other views, even if I completely disagree with them, but we must treat ourselves in a civilised way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u198	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Boris Budek's Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Judge! We are at a point where we should discuss how the Constitutional Tribunal works, the body that is called to control, among others. what the parliamentary majority accepts in this term. In fact, however, since the illegal judgment and the majority of the experts who took over the Constitutional Tribunal by a parliamentary majority have de facto stopped the Court's exercise of this basic function, which is to control the constitutionality of the rules. Since the famous night sittings, in which three double judges were referred to the Constitutional Court in a way that was not in accordance with the Constitution, as confirmed by the final decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, three judges were elected to the seats already filled, and thus three double judges were referred to the Constitutional Court through an illegal choice of... [[You're the understudy.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it? What's this?]] ...in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution of the person who directs the tribunal [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, which expressly state that the President of the Republic shall appoint the President of the Tribunal from among the candidates submitted by the General Assembly of the Judges of the Tribunal, and not by a minority of the Judges of the Tribunal, by introducing an institution of an unknown constitution, a person acting as President of the Tribunal in a situation in which there was a legally elected Vice-President, and ending with what subsequently took place, and thus unlawfully entrusting part of his powers by a person who considers himself to be the President of the Tribunal, not only that the Judge-President of the Tribunal, in addition to the procedure of an unknown Constitution... [[Boris, don't embarrass yourself.]] ...unknown constitutional law, but also administrative law... I would like to remind you that there is no way that their powers are transferred by means of a civil power of attorney to an unauthorized person. It is as if the Marshal of the Sejm had transferred his powers to his constitutional powers. [[Boris, don't embarrass yourself, really.]] But what was all this really about? Because that's what the assessment of whether the Constitutional Tribunal actually works or not comes down to. Firstly, the aim was that the current parliamentary majority, without any control, could adopt rules incompatible with the Polish constitution. The Act on Agricultural Trading, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Civil Service Act, the Police Act - these are just the simplest examples of how the fundamental law was infringed without any consequences for the current majority. Well, what was done in November, in December 2015, shows that the only purpose of the changes to the Constitutional Court was to block and de facto stop constitutional control, and thus to usurp the current parliamentary majority's right to introduce systemic changes without amending the Constitution. But the worst part of all this is that the authority of the Constitutional Court was first challenged to say that it is an organ that works smoothly. I would burn myself out of shame on the spot of a person who is present in the High Sejm, saying that he is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, and at the same time is the same person who rejects the ruling of legally elected judges in 2010 at the request of a politician sitting on the bench of Members of this majority, the Attorney General. In this way, an unprecedented violation of the Constitution is committed by preventing legally elected judges from ruling in 2010, as I stress. But it was all programmed so that later this majority could carry out further rapes on the Polish constitution. The Law on the Supreme Court, the Act on the National Council of Courts, all these pseudoreforms that were introduced - it was introduced against the Polish Constitution, with the passive attitude of the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal, which was embezzled by politicians. The media reported on the tours of Members who should now be burned out of shame, who were going to the Constitutional Court, who consulted the judges sitting there, and in fact the essence of what the parliamentary majority has brought to the Constitutional Tribunal is the fact... [[To come to your party headquarters.]] ...unknown in the history of political involvement of the person leading the Constitutional Tribunal in the current policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is evidence that you have directed a party member to the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Boris, you're funny.]] This is evidence that the Constitutional Tribunal has become your party outbuilding. [[Voice from the room: You're funny.]] This is evidence that the Constitutional Tribunal is acting under the dictation of your politicians... [[Voice from the courtroom: Were the judges at your seat?]] ...and you have no moral right to talk about repairing justice. What happened in Poland reminds us of the darkest periods that we know from the history of countries which, through the blockades of the Constitutional Tribunal, introduced totalitarian regimes. Not without a reason, in the 1930s, before the Austrian anszlus, the Constitutional Tribunal was paralyzed in order to fake the legality of these actions, to introduce such a system rather than another legal system. Not without reason after World War II, constitutional tribunals or constitutional courts were introduced in all countries that had a totalitarian system, aimed at ensuring that the mistakes that led to the arson of Europe and the world never again happened in the future. The absence of a constitutional tribunal or a constitutional court makes politicians unpunished, the rights of minorities no longer matter, because the parliamentary majority can do anything. And unfortunately, you have done so by placing in the Constitutional Court persons who do not have the right to be there. By blocking the ruling by legally elected judges, you've caused a citizen to have no protection... [[Don't lie to me.]] [[The voice from the hall: Boris, don't lie.]] ...that the citizen has no chance to investigate e.g. a socialist, even communist law on land that violates property rights that violates the right of inheritance. A citizen has no chance of examining a legally acting tribunal, e.g. a law that gives a politician from your benches the opportunity to look into every prosecutor's proceedings and share it with party colleagues in Nowogrodzka. The citizen has no chance of making an effective constitutional complaint. Thank you very much, Mr Wróblewski, for showing this statistics... [[But it's 2016.]] ...how a constitutional complaint is dealt with. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's another very important piece of information. You were supposed to open a Constitutional Court and courts for citizens. Bans for the media. It is embarrassing that, in the 21st century, journalists are not allowed into district courts ruled by your presidents or by the Constitutional Tribunal or their entry is very limited. This makes you really prove that the only purpose of the changes to the Constitutional Tribunal was to block constitutional control in Poland, was to impose unconstitutional solutions by the parliamentary majority. And the essence of this is what you do politically, how you treat people in the Constitutional Court. I regret to say on behalf of the Civic Platform Club that the report submitted by you to Judge Julia Przyłębska [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Speech outside the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Anyone on this platform can say any kind of nonsense and we need to listen to it calmly. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's the law. [[That was Marshal Sejm's level.]] [[But who was it for?]] It was for Members who are interrupting their speech. [[Thank you very much...]] You're welcome. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now. [[You're gonna punish the marshal for saying that?]] Do you have anything to say? [[Yes. What right do you have to talk to a marshal like that?]] I reassure Members who are disturbing the sitting. [[You're making fun of Parliament.]] Sit still there, sir. [[I'm gonna leave 'cause you can't stand the chair.]] Then leave, sir. [[Voice from the room: Alkomat.]] [[Voice from the room: Stop the boosters.]] You're welcome. Mr Romansky is not here, I understand. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. There's still a modern club?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Judge! Mr President, I would like to begin by commenting on you. If you consider any specific statement I have made to be inappropriate, which was raised at the Justice Committee's meeting, please make a proper notification to the Ethics Committee. And if you don't file that motion, please don't say anything, because there's no evidence that I've raised any facts wrongly. I would also like to say that in your eye you do not see the beam, and in others you try to see the blade. Lewacka's face - a quote from Mrs Pawłowicz, treasonous faces - a quote from Mr Kaczyński, rubbish - a quote from Mr Terletki, go away, fool - said to the opposition Member, another quote from Mr Terletki, Mr Pyzik showing the middle finger, as I understand it, to society as a whole. These are facts. Mr Zalek, who talks about women fighting heroically for the dignity of their children's lives, that they treat children as live shields. We have already delivered you in this example and have notified you where you need to be. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Judge! True and reliable information about the significant problems arising from the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016 could actually be closed in one simple sentence: PiS in 2016 destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal. Those are the facts. [[Voice from the room: He's alive.]] Meanwhile, to the so-called content. The information that was presented to the Sejm is more appropriate to the word "disinformation" and to the state in which the court is currently located after the PiS attack, unfortunately the definition of "total decay" is the most appropriate. The subsequent amendments notified by the camp contrary to the constitution of the law, amendments and a series of other non-legal actions simply caused the collapse of the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! Let us briefly recall the facts that led to the destruction of the independent Constitutional Court, the attack on the Constitutional Tribunal took place in several acts. It was in 2016 that three judges of the doubles who had already been elected were allowed to rule. The camp of the milking change completely ignored in this way, the choice which has been made by the Sejm of the VII term of office. He also disregarded the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 December 2015. Unfortunately, we will have to deal with the consequences of these decisions over the years. These judgments were given in the composition of an unknown Polish constitution, and are therefore non-existent sentences. Thus, this PiS war with the Constitutional Tribunal will result in unprecedented legal chaos, but the consequences of these actions will mainly affect ordinary citizens, not guilty of this situation. High Izbo! Another action of the PiS destroying the Constitutional Tribunal was the refusal to publish judgments issued by the Court. The refusal to publish is an open violation of the article. 190 Constitution, which explicitly states that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final. It is clear from this article that the authorities of the executive authority are not competent to carry out any assessment of the judgments of the tribunal, they have no right to decide which of these judgments deserves publication. The action of politicians of the national change was thus a clear violation of the constitution. [[That's good.]] It was actually a stand-up over the laws in force. You are the caste above the law, above the Constitutional Tribunal. The publication of the rulings of the tribunal is an obligation, not a favor done by the rulers, and the refusal of both Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to publish those judgments remains an example of a violation of the constitution, and this entails responsibility to the Court of State sooner or later. [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare.]] High Izbo! The last act of attack by the PiS on the tribunal also took place with a gross and open violation of the law. The presentation of candidates to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on 20 December 2016 took place on the basis of non-binding rules. They entered into force only on 3 January 2017, i.e. only a few days later, which was raised by Mr Pszczółkowski, who was chosen by your votes. In addition, contrary to the provisions of the Act, the presentation of the candidate was not preceded by the adoption of a resolution by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As if it weren't enough, three unauthorized judges elected by the previous Sejm took part in the vote on the election of this candidate for president. They were Henryk Cioch, Lech Morawski and Mr Mariusz Muszyński. Moreover, only 6 people voted on the nominations for the President of the Tribunal, but according to the right to effectively present them, it is necessary to support the majority of judges forming a general assembly, i.e. a minimum of eight. Consequently, it can be concluded that Ms Julia Przyłębska was not appointed President of the Constitutional Tribunal in accordance with the letter of law. In view of the above, for formal reasons, it should not even report on the activities of the Court for 2016, because it is a certain usurpation on its part. [[Voice from the room: She should fold.]] Further attacks by the PiS also had consequences in the form of an interest of international institutions in violation of the rule of law standards by the government of the national change. But first of all, for these actions aimed at taking power by the PiS over the Constitutional Tribunal, unfortunately Poles - out of their pockets - will pay for the loss of many billions of euros from the EU budget. The European Commission's recommendations of 20 December 2017, including all the events that took place during the previous year, should be recalled here. These recommendations make it clear - the Commission recalls that none of the following actions as set out in its Recommendation of 26 July 2017 on the Constitutional Tribunal, the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the National School of Courts, and is therefore again recommended to undertake the following tasks: restoring the independence and legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal as guarantor of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by ensuring that the President, the Vice-President and the Judges of the Tribunal are elected and appointed in accordance with the law and by fully implementing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 and 9 December 2015 according to which the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are to assume three judges elected in accordance with the law by the Sejm of the previous term of office in October 2015 and three judges elected by the Sejm of the new term of office without a valid legal basis cannot rule until they are elected in accordance with the law. The European Commission also recommended the publication and full enforcement of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March, 11 August, 17 November without any annotations. High Izbo! It is also worth recalling the conclusions of the report of the Venice Commission of 2016, which states that the paralyzing of the effectiveness of the tribunal will undermine all three fundamental principles of the Council of Europe: democracy, because of the lack of an essential part of the system of control and balance, human rights, because citizens' access to the Constitutional Tribunal may be slowed down to the level of refusal of access to justice, and the rule of law, because the Constitutional Tribunal, which is a central part of the judicial authority in Poland, would become ineffective. And that's all you've managed to destroy. Unfortunately today, in retrospect, we can say that all these conclusions and warnings of the Venice Commission have become part of the grim reality in our country, and it is your fault. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] High Izbo! As you can see from all the facts, true information about the activities of the tribunal in 2016 is more like the chronicle of a brutal attack on an independent institution. Today, after the independent Constitutional Court, after its authority, after the role that it has played so far, there is really ruin. But today we know who's responsible. [[Don't scare, don't scare.]] We know this very carefully, and there will finally be a time when these attacks and the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal should be explained to the Court of State... [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare.]] ...but most of all this. Poles will not forgive you for destroying the rule of law and bringing Poland out of the European Union, bringing it out of an elite democratic and law-abiding country club and putting it on a European car. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Now you won't be chosen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u202	Would your marshal like to continue? There's only half a minute left. [[No, I'll ask the question.]] Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We would like to say, Madam President, and I will say yes, but only by respect for all that is left of this institution. On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I would like to present a position on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016, together with the position of the committee, the Seym Printing Nos 2305 and 2467. As every year, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal informed the Sejm and the Senate of the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal for the last closed year. It should already be noted at this point that we are dealing with an extremely non-standard and worrying situation. There's been an unprecedented event in the history of the tribunal. Over the past several years, information has been prepared and presented to the Sejm within a few months of the closure of a given year. It was usually created from March to April, and the Sejm dealt with it in June or July, rarely in later months. At this time, information about the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal for 2017 should be ready, not just for 2016. It is worth noting at this point that last year employees of the Constitutional Tribunal received over PLN 1.5 million of awards, I believe, for good and effective work. The result should be information prepared much, much faster. You have to admit, they were in an extremely hurry to do this job. Maybe next time we'll have to think about double-altitude awards in their context so that they can do their job in due course. The exchange of staff in the Constitutional Tribunal's office is negatively affected also on the activities of this institution for more than a year. It was also decided to choose a rather interesting time to present information at the meeting of the two Sejm committees. This was on Monday 30 April, which was not during the Sejm meeting, but during a long weekend, which made the quorum of the committee not very impressive - and that is a mild term. The discussion was short and turbulent, and then it was suddenly interrupted and closed for unknown reasons. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will tell you more about this. Today, it is astonishing to hear reservations and comments about the behaviour of the opposition Members, as has already been said, in complete disregard of the statements of President Peterovich, who spoke equally provocatively during the committee meeting. I will no longer speak of Mrs Pavłowicz's previous behaviour and words. Information on the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal provides statistics in comparison with previous years. It has to be admitted that they are not delightful, but it is worth mentioning that today we know that those for 2017 will be even worse. It must be borne in mind that in 2016, 12 judges, i.e. only 80% of the Court's membership, were actually adjudicated, since three double judges were not able to rule, in accordance with the relevant and legitimate case law of the Constitutional Tribunal of December 2015. In short, to analyse these statistics, I will say that there are apparently fewer judgments issued, including judgments. In 2015, the Court issued 173 judgments, including 63 sentences, and in 2016 only 99 judgments, including 39 judgments, were delivered. The number of orders issued decreased in the same period from 156 to 90. The number of cases identified as part of the preliminary check fell from 1024 to 669. The statistics on separate sentences are also interesting. The separate sentences submitted for the judgments in 2015 concerned 25 judgments, and in 2016 the number of sentences separate to the judgments was at 44%. Even more interesting is the question of separate sentences. This was 5.5% in 2015 And a year later, 55%. You might wonder if someone was wrong about the comma, but it's not a mistake. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u204	Thank you very much. The remaining part of the time will be used by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, also the club PSL and the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u205	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The document on which we are discussing is entitled: Information on important problems arising from activity - I stress this word - and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. There is no doubt that one of the most important problems relating to the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016 was obvious controversy, disputes concerning the form of the tribunal and the legality of decisions taken and decisions given, as well as the non-publication of those decisions. This matter was of interest to institutions specialised in evaluating the proceedings of democratic states either in the European Union or in the Council of Europe. It was at the invitation of the Polish Government of December 2015 that the Constitutional Tribunal was dealt with by the Venice Commission, which is precisely the committee working at the Council of Europe for democracy through law. Is there any reference to activity, to documents produced as a result of this invitation, to many visits and analysis of the situation by the Venice Commission? No, it's not. It is mentioned in the sub-section on foreign cooperation that there was a visit from representatives of the Venice Commission during which current problems related to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal were discussed. There is also no mention of two recommendations issued in 2016 by the European Commission on compliance with the rule of law in Poland. In both of these recommendations, in July and December 2016, the European Commission explicitly addressed issues related to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would just like to remind you, in the most brief, what has been stated, especially by the Venice Commission, once again: the body appointed to judge such situations, to issue recommendations, and also invited by the Polish Government for this purpose to Warsaw. [[Non-binding.]] Well, in March 2016, as the information does not mention at all, a report was adopted on the situation in the Court and around the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, where we read - I take out only fragments - in point 88, that many amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act which were adopted quickly made the tribunal ineffective as a guarantee of the Constitution. In another point, paragraph 109, the Venice Commission considers it necessary to recall that, according to the judgment of 9 December, the beginning of the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is the election of the Sejm, not the taking of an oath before the President, which, as you can see, is still misinterpreting both the Law and Justice and the Judge Przyłębska. Finally, in one of the last points, paragraph 142, it is clear that the judgment of 9 March 2016 was not taken contrary to the Polish Constitution, so that it should be fully published, recognised and accepted, introduced into the Polish legal order. [[Says who?]] The President of the Venice Commission on the election of Mrs Przyłębska as President states that this was controversial and recommends restoring the independence and legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal and ensuring that the President and Vice-President are legally elected and based on the judgments of the Court of 3 and 9 December 2015. So we've got an incomplete document, we've got a document that's falsifying the reality that's missing significant recommendations and perpetuating them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This terrible situation related to the amendment... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the Constitutional Court Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Now let's get to the questions. Five ladies and gentlemen have come forward. I'm closing the list of questions, and I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! Judge! We're happy to have a lady with us who's been awarded the Liberty Man Award... [[Madam President.]] ...a right-wing weekly related to the SKOKs. Congratulations, Judge. This award is... [[Madam President.]] ...as the organizers write, for defending freedom of speech and civil liberties, which is an absolute puriazum, if you look at the activities of you and this tandem that we observe in the Constitutional Court, the tandem of Przyłębska - Muszyński. The problem is, High Izbo, Mr Muszyński is not a judge of the Constitutional Court... [[Voice from the room: You are.]] ...and his part in the grandstand is at least weird. But you can see, as in the pill, what led the colonized tribunal - to the fact that citizens, judges and the Ombudsman lose confidence in him, withdraw their complaints, their conclusions. The scandal is, Judge, that Mr. Muszyński... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...allows himself in separate sentences... [[Voice from the room: We regret it.]] [[Voice from the room: What a pity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u208	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club of PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to what my club colleague, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, said, and ask the President why this information did not give any attention to the reservations which the Venice Commission had made to your institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u210	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u211	Thank you, Marshal. In this Chamber, it has been stated that the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law, not a court of fact, and that the judge has also spoken. True, the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law, not a court of the fact to which it applies in matters not governed by the Code of Civil Procedure. And in this code, in the article. 48 it is written that the judge is excluded from the law in matters in which he is party. As if that weren't enough, there's art. 49, which says that regardless of the reasons mentioned in Article. 48, which is subject to an exemption from the law, shall be excluded when there is any circumstance which could give rise to reasonable doubt as to the impartiality of the Judge. How can we talk about the integrity of the Constitutional Tribunal when there is a judge who will be directly involved in the decision? How can we talk about the real Constitutional Court, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When there's printing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u212	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you, Madam President, why the report did not address the unprecedented event that took place in 2016 - the failure to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. 190 of the Constitution expressly states that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal have universal force and are final, decisions are immediately published. It is all the more outrageous that the Sejm has recently adopted a law at the request of a parliamentary majority, a group of Members in which it has admitted that these decisions will be published. Why is the report missing such an important event about which future Polish lawyers will surely learn as an example of gross violation of the Constitution? Thank you very much. [[You only know about the budget, what do you know about the law?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u214	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the report that you presented to Judge Przyłębska... [[Madam President.]] ...from the activities of an institution which is by name only the Constitutional Tribunal, and which concerns the non-judgmental separation in this respect. I have a question for the judge: Why did you not include in this report the visits of Members who came there very often, as the media showed? Didn't you consider it a visit? or such checks, so that the judges who have been left by you there called, followed these orders? Why didn't you take this as an official visit? Since the PiS Members came there, they should also be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[And the MPs of the POs, where did they go? For a beer?]] [[To the Reader.]] [[To Owl and Friends.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u216	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Ms Julia Przyłębska, now has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean your President and Mr Marshal, you have called the Senior Convention at an hour. 15. We're gonna have to announce a break in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u217	That's how I'm gonna end up. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on these statements by the clubs because, in my opinion, they were referring to information, they were different positions. In this respect, I have nothing more to add than what is in public information. As regards the judges' compositions in 2016, I refer you to separate sentences. I have made many separate sentences, even such a sentence in which I quoted Professor Zubik, who has made many publications, perhaps even habilitation on the basis of a book on presumption of constitutionality. There, explicite Mr Zubik stated that until the law is challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal, there is a presumption of constitutionality regardless of what any individual outside the Constitutional Tribunal would like to say in this matter. As far as the answers to questions are concerned, Mr Honourable has not asked questions. I took note of his claims. On the other hand, as regards the issue related to the visit of the Venice Commission in 2016, the president of the Venice Commission accompanied two people at the Constitutional Court. I don't know what he was talking about in the privacy of Mr. President Rzepliński's office. I wasn't invited to this meeting. There is also no record of this meeting in the records of the Constitutional Tribunal. I was able to ask him why he was not interested in the position of the other party just one minute before the president of the Venice Commission left. If he wants to draw up an opinion, those views should be balanced. He told me he didn't have time to talk to us. [[Sure. Elementary.]] That was the case. So I didn't really have the material to put it in that information. Here's my substantive point. When it comes to starting a term of office, there is one thing: determining when the term begins. But that does not mean that starting a term of office is equivalent to assessing the legal status of the choice of a judge. The choice of the judge consists of several elements. The application of candidates begins, the election is made by the Sejm, after which the resolution is submitted to the President, the judge takes the oath before the President, and there is another element: he reports to the Constitutional Court and makes a declaration of his willingness to begin his office. There's even a rule that says what the legal effect is if the judge doesn't do it. None of the three people you're talking about, first of all, have taken a vow before the president, second of all, that kind of readiness she hasn't expressed. On the other hand, the three judges you are referring to in a completely unauthorised manner to the Dublers have made such a statement. These are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in accordance with the law in force in Poland, as well as in accordance with the law in force throughout Europe, also in those countries where there is a different system of law than the continental one, there is such interpretation. I have no doubt about that. As regards the exclusion of judges and the application of the Code of Civil Procedure procedure, it is, of course, applicable, but in so far as there is no regulation in the rules on proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Indeed, the area associated with the exclusion of a judge is in the Constitutional Court Act, so we can only apply these provisions to a very narrow extent. As regards the issue of the publication of judgments, I did not address this because the Constitutional Tribunal is not the publishing body of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, when it comes to Members' visits, I do not know what Members visited Mr Rzepliński. When it comes to Members' visits, of course, they are connected with their activities... [[Of course.]] ...submitted applications, reading files. The Constitutional Tribunal is attended by both Members and representatives of the Ombudsman, as well as courts and swarms of other actors, all those who are participants in the proceedings. So, actually, when it comes to questions, that's it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Thank you! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u218	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm declaring a time-out. 15... Oh, excuse me, I'm still closing the discussion. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal on information shall not be put to a vote. I note that the Sejm took note of the information presented by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2016. I'm declaring a time-out. 15.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 50 hours 15 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: the report by the European Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union (prints No 2427 and 2484). I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I have the honour to present the committee's report on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union after 2020. The draft resolution is a committee initiative adopted by the Commission for European Union Affairs on 22 March and aims to be heard by the Sejm in a debate in the European Union on the future shape of cohesion policy after 2020. Such resolutions are often adopted by the Polish Parliament also in order to strengthen the voice of the Polish government on the international stage. On 8 February, for example, the Polish Parliament adopted a resolution on negotiating the rules governing the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. The draft resolution contained in print 2427 was addressed by the Marshal on 11 April this year. to the Committee on European Union Affairs for first reading, and the committee carried out its first reading and discussed the draft resolution at its meeting on 8 May. In the proposed text of the draft resolution, we stress that maintaining cohesion policy is crucial for the effective implementation of the Community objectives. We note that cohesion policy measures should form an important part of the EU budget and that it should cover the geographical scope of all regions, support the regions with the lowest level of development, calling for the maintenance of GDP per capita as a basic indicator of allocation of funds. In addition, in the resolution, we propose changes to the functioning of cohesion policy: strengthening the thematic concentration mechanism while maintaining a wide range of cohesion policy interventions, as action must be adapted to identified deficits and territorial potentials; changing the logic of the cohesion policy system to support structural reforms and building on positive incentives for structural change; harmonising the implementation of cohesion policy funds and maintaining the current structure of cohesion policy funds, i.e. including the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund; strengthening the territorial approach through a wider use of territorial instruments, as well as simplifying and making them more flexible, reshaping the multi-level model of shared management so that its main axes are mutual trust and a focus on achieving results so that more competences can be transferred to the national and regional level for implementation, including audit and control; simplifying the use of financial instruments. At the same time, in the resolution, due to the close link between cohesion policy and the efficiency of the whole economic governance system, we are proposing changes to this system so that the recommendations to the Member States are multi-annual and encourage structural reforms at EU and Member State level, and we are calling for a stronger dialogue between the Member States and the Commission so that countries can fully identify with these recommendations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The content of the proposed resolution expresses the will of the Polish Parliament to preserve the importance and role of cohesion policy in the next period of funding of the European Union. This will is described in a coherent, substantive, politically accentless language, which, I hope, will make this resolution adopted by the High House unanimously and thus strengthen Poland's voice in the EU arena and will give stronger support to the Polish government in the beginning of difficult negotiations. With this in mind, that the Polish Parliament should try to speak with one voice, especially in a matter that is so important for Poland and Poles, which is the future of cohesion policy, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the resolution submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u220	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Isabella Kloc on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. The resolution is being examined in a situation where, a few days ago, on 2 May, the European Commission presented its initial proposals for the multiannual financial framework. Packages of specific regulations for these sectoral initiatives, including cohesion policy, are to be published on 29 May. The proposals are very general in nature, they define the proposed amount of resources and their allocation to specific policies, but do not contain specific solutions, e.g. information on the so-called national envelopes. The proposals put forward do not prejudge anything at this stage and will have to be adopted unanimously by all Member States. In February this year, Prime Minister Morawiecki presented a rational vision of the post-2020 budget. Some of the new objectives of the European Union, particularly in terms of security, migration and external borders, obviously require financial support. However, this cannot be done by simple shifts at the expense of Central Europe. On the last straight before the European Commission presented the draft budget, Poland managed to defend a significant part of the region's interests and to halt the most radical proposals for cuts, the most radical proposals for changes, proposals for a real revolutionisation of the EU budget. On the other hand, this proposal is still a very imperfect document, which merely sets out the prospect of an agreement, but is still far from that agreement. And this is just the beginning of a very difficult and nervous process of negotiating a multi-annual budget in new political circumstances in the European Union. Therefore, the involvement of the Sejm is needed at this stage. We will have two resolutions, one on the common agricultural policy, the other on the cohesion policy. In the course of negotiations, further resolutions of the Sejm are possible, we do not close the road. In order to assess the European Commission's proposals in general, the overall political context in the Union needs to be taken into account. We have brexit, so the reduction in revenue to the Union budget in recent years was EUR 10 The North countries are under even greater pressure for austerity, often from populist forces and the opening up of anti-European forces. The countries of the South are still in a crisis situation when it comes to unemployment. Central Europe on this map is at the forefront of political stability and economic growth. For these reasons, this will be the most difficult budget negotiations in history. Poland, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is one of the key players at the table of budget negotiations. The increase in the importance of Poland was also underlined yesterday by Pat Cox, President of the European Parliament from the time of accession. Everyone in Europe, including in the European Commission, is aware that without agreement with Poland, a multi-annual budget cannot be adopted. In the budgetary debate, Poland is one of the most active countries in the European Union, together with a broad coalition of countries for more than 2 years, we have presented well-founded demands in all areas of the budget. Although the European Commission has proposed a reduction in the cohesion policy budget - which will still be negotiated - Poland will still remain the biggest beneficiary of this policy. The first success is already, cohesion policy has been recognised as an important pillar of the European Union's action. At the same time, as parliamentarians in this House, we should at least all represent together the interests of Poland and Poles. We cannot overlook and ignore the fact that one of the Commission's proposals concerns the general use of EU funds in connection with respect for the rule of law. This proposal, under the heading of the protection of the European Union's financial interests, leads in fact to institutional imbalances and uses an unprecedented procedure for the examination of the European Commission's proposals by the European Council in the form of an inverted qualified majority. In view of the above and in view of the interests of the smaller countries, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the Polish regions and citizens for whom cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are important - because these are the largest budgets - I would like to propose an amendment to include a paragraph in the text: We believe that European taxpayers' money should be spent in an efficient, transparent and fair manner. Poland, representing the high [[♪ The bell ♪]] standards of spending EU money...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u222	Thank you, Member, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u223	...critically refers to the proposals put forward to link the budget to the rule of law control.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u224	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u225	I'm gonna hand the whole amendment over to the marshal right now. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u226	Thank you very much. Please, now Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, I cannot agree with what the European Commission has said about the fact that this proposal does not prejudge anything, because we all know - all of us who know about the procedure - that what the European Commission is proposing is a case of many, many, many discussions and debates with the Member States and with the EU institutions. And that is the basis for this compromise that will probably be concluded. It is therefore extremely important for us to examine carefully what is in this proposal of the European Commission, and it is definitely not beneficial for Poland. It shows that the Polish government is currently marginalized in the discussion and that it has not been able to take care of the most important things for us, i.e. the issues of having as little cuts as possible, so that there are exactly the same type of criteria when allocating money. Of course, it's also about the revenue side of the budget. The problem is that this resolution, which has been proposed, contains a handful of valid demands, but is now completely obsolete. If we really, really want to help the Polish state right, we should first of all ask a whole series of questions and first of all respond to what is on the table at the moment. And these proposals which the European Commission has made are dangerous for Poland. What is more: I will say that if someone expects these procedures to be negotiated, I am sorry that this proposal will be changed for the better, he is wrong. Because, in the history of European integration, what was the result of an agreement between the Member States was most often less ambitious than what the European Commission is proposing. Especially since the Polish government seems marginalized in this matter. That is, of course, a question to the government, but the government does not answer these questions. We are dealing with a revolution, because for many, many years there has been an attempt to assassinate cohesion policy and today this policy will look completely different if, indeed, most of these demands are accepted. The question is, of course, whose fault it is. He doesn't go here. only about cuts, although these cuts are significant. Here, too, is the question for colleagues from Law and Justice: How is it that Bernd Kölmel, a Member who speaks on behalf of the faction in which you are in the European Parliament, calls for even more cuts in those areas which are extremely important for Poland? There are completely new criteria in this proposal, so to say that it would be good for this to be just a GDP criterion is right, but unfortunately it is no longer valid. There are environmental, migration, education criteria that can really lead to a complete shift of money from this part of Europe, from Poland to the south of Europe, and we must fight this, of course, here we must ask very specific questions about criteria. These are also questions to the government. And no one pretends because I don't believe that the government is so unprofessional that there are no calculations of how this can result in a national envelope. Such questions must be raised during this debate. Such questions must be raised if we are to adopt such a resolution. There are bad proposals for higher co-financing, new revenue. After all, we have been fighting for years so that the issue of climate policy should not be taken into account when the European Union's new income is being formulated. This is exactly what is being proposed at the moment, which could mean that Poland's contribution will be much higher, that is, that this balance of profits and benefits, in terms of financial issues concerning our integration with the European Union, will unfortunately not be as beneficial as it is today. And finally, the rule of law. The question, of course, is whose fault it is that in the European Union there is an end to patience for the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, violations of the rule of law, trampling on the constitution. For the sake of clarity - our Members in the European Parliament have also questioned this principle, but it has already been included in the Commission's proposals, moreover, it will be a separate regulation where decisions will be made by qualified majority, so there is no possibility, as the government has so far told us, to block such rules. What are we getting at, ladies and gentlemen, High Sejm? We come to the conclusion that, in fact, for what the Law and Justice are doing, for total marginalisation in the international arena and in the European Union... [[That's not true.]] ...breaking the rule of law bill will pay us all, because it turns out... [[That's not true.]] ...that there will be less money in cohesion policy for local governments. I would like to remind you that in Warsaw at least 45% all investments in recent years have been made precisely because there has been co-financing from the European Union. Exactly today, the same people who promise to invest further are guilty of the fact that the rule of law procedure is being introduced at the moment, are guilty of having so far-reaching cuts in cohesion policy. Hence our position that unfortunately this resolution is completely incompatible with today's reality. We need to ask questions about coalition, about marginalizations, about the issue of the instrument of the rule of law, because the bill for what you are doing will unfortunately come to pay Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we're gonna hold off...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u229	...with this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u230	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the European Union's Committee on Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. The objective of cohesion policy is to achieve the European Union's uniform, sustainable and sustainable development, and therefore all its regions and countries. However, it seems that the Union is moving towards deepening divisions rather than eliminating them. A few days ago, the European Commission presented a proposal for a multiannual financial framework for 2021 and 2027. Among the assumptions presented were also a proposal for the future shape of cohesion policy. In addition to the main criterion of distribution, i.e. GDP per capita, the Commission proposes three additional criteria: climate change, migration and unemployment. It is clear that these new criteria will not work in favour of our country, for example because more than 2.5 million young Poles who have left because of unemployment will probably not be included in the number of unemployed. I think the best proposal from Poland is to propose that the allocation criterion be the average remuneration achieved in a given country. It is the level of earnings that is crucial for the quality of life of citizens. Poland has been at the gray end for years in terms of earnings. According to Eurostat data provided in March this year. Poles together with Bulgaria and Romania are on the podium of countries where workers receive the lowest wage. Poles earn an average of about PLN 27 per hour, and for the Union as a whole this amount amounts to almost PLN 100. For example, in Denmark it is 164 PLN, in Belgium - 160 PLN. I believe that it would be in line with the idea of solidarity and justice, which so far remains in the area of declarations, to adopt as a wage level indicator. In view of the upcoming new EU financial perspective, it is important that we do not put ourselves in the position of a poor relative accepting a donation, but a strong, knowledgeable country. It should therefore be a priority for the government to maintain the value of GDP per capita as the only indicator of the distribution of cohesion policy funds or to supplement it with an average wage. The European Union is a union of equal states, and we have seen for years that the voice of stronger, solidarity-based states has prevailed. The old Union. The Europe of many speeds, and thus the very diverse income of citizens, is a denial of the idea of integration. Let us modify, change cohesion policy, but in a way that will improve it. It is important to harmonise the rules for implementing the Funds, reduce administrative burdens and simplify cohesion policy procedures. These are important issues not only for Poland, but also for other countries where we will probably find allies of our demands. In conclusion, I would like to support the resolution prepared and call on the government not to give in to the pressure to extend the criteria for the allocation of funds, and if so, the main one should be the amount of the average remuneration received in the country concerned. We cannot continue to allow the mass emigration of Poles behind bread to Western European countries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u232	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Allow me, before I proceed to this resolution, to read the draft resolution of Members of Law and Justice, under which 13 current constitutional ministers, the Secretaries of State, signed you, Marshal Terlecki, Marshal Mazurek signed. This resolution reads: The Parliament of the Republic of Poland believes that the new multiannual financial framework of the European Union should be a compromise which strengthens European solidarity and cohesion and at the same time should be an investment in the development of the Union as a whole. The appropriate shape of the multiannual financial framework, in accordance with the Treaty provisions, should guarantee Poland's equal and fair participation in the resources of the Community budget. The Sejm considers it particularly important to put an end to discrimination against Polish farmers, expressed in unequal amounts and aid mechanisms, and to provide funds under the Structural Funds in such a size as to give Poland the opportunity to develop its own potential and strengthen its competitiveness. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland therefore calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland to act effectively to take these objectives into account in the final form of the multiannual financial framework as regards the current financial perspective. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the Polish Government to refuse acceptance of the multiannual financial framework not meeting the objectives set out in this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! As can be seen from the president's report, which presented the draft resolution, these texts have nothing to do with each other. The text you presented to the High House six years ago, when you were in opposition, is indeed very political. But what has been presented today does not meet expectations, does not pursue any ambition, does not refer to key elements, only to the part of the European budget, which is cohesion policy. It's this document, which on May 2nd this year. The European Commission has adopted in the form of a multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, with much more themes. The truth is - you can't hide this anymore - that the structure of this budget is changing dramatically for Poland, because these two priorities, most important for Poland, for Poles, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, in the previous European budget accounted for 73% All the resources. These funds are reducing in this new, much larger budget - because the new budget is EUR 279 billion - to just over 50%. The reduction in the structure of this budget shows how the role of the common agricultural and cohesion policy is decreasing. But what worries me personally, which is a great unknown on this budget, is the issue of the income side. It is no secret that after the proposal of Prime Minister Morawiecki the membership fee will increase by 20%. It's not a secret, it's accepted. The President of the European Parliament says that this is far from sufficient that it must increase by 30%. Today, the budget is short of EUR 150 billion, more than EUR 20 billion per year, and new revenues are expected. Do you know what this new income is supposed to come from? From the film, from plastic - we have introduced such a fee in this parliament probably last year - from this we will collect about PLN 2 billion per year. They're supposed to come from emissions. If this passes, do you think the carbon-based economy will then pay less contributions to the European Union or more? This is an instrument that is extremely dangerous for Poland, which radically disrupts these flows. These are important elements that need to be said. Madam President referred to the rule of law. Before the rule of law, national envelopes need to be negotiated. This is a challenge today. And these three new criteria that the European Commission introduces: youth unemployment... [[It was, you guys brought it in.]] There wasn't, Madam President. This was introduced by Minister Kwieciński in 2007 in the first government of PiS only for Polish regions. It wasn't in that proposal. Now it's only gonna show up for the first time. The second issue is migration, and the third is climate change. You may also answer whether it is profitable or not. [[At the time, it was very profitable for us.]] (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I would like to say that I accept your declaration that you are open to discussing the entire multiannual financial framework, that you allow such an opportunity that we will be able to seriously discuss this further, and that is why we will not oppose this resolution. We will hold off on this resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we will draw up a resolution that will cover the entire budget... [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u234	Finish your work, sir. ...from both the income side and the income side, the new priorities. We will prepare this so that we can have cohesion policy and a common policy... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u235	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will also start by expressing surprise and criticism, not so much as the content proposed by the committee, but about the working procedures and the preparation of the draft resolution. The project entered the Sejm on 22 March. It has previously been discussed at the European Union Committee on Affairs, contrary to the very sensible demands of some Members, especially from the opposition, including myself. It was a few days before the arrival of Commissioner Oettinger, the person responsible for the new multiannual financial framework, to the Polish Sejm. We have prepared this without a final discussion with the Commissioner responsible for this in the European Commission and we have sent the draft to parliamentary work five weeks before the deadline for the announcement of the draft multiannual budget by the European Commission. Therefore, it is not surprising that, indeed, although a handful of sensible demands are being introduced, de facto these arrangements go along with what today is the main object of the fight, negotiation or our concern in terms of the shape of the EU's multiannual budget. I agree with what Mr Marek Owa said. A crazyly important element of the resolution, the position of the Sejm alongside cohesion policy should be the common agricultural policy, should be payments to farmers, especially since Law and Justice repeatedly in almost every campaign, including in the last one, promised to align these payments to Polish farmers with the amounts of subsidies to farmers from other countries of the European Union. Probably the lack of the possibility of fulfilling this request, which by definition was a foolish and unrealistic demand, makes as holy water of the State of Law and Justice avoid taking the position of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the common agricultural policy, you run away from the topic. When I look at the proposal prepared and the government's negotiating strategy, it seems to me that the goal, the excellent goal of the negotiations of the current multiannual financial framework conducted by Donald Tusk's government concerning 77 billion euro for Poland for cohesion policy, is impossible to achieve. This is not only the result of Britain's exit from the European Union, but also of the deterioration of the Polish negotiating position, especially in the light of the conflict with the European Commission about the rule of law in Poland. It is therefore not surprising that this rule of law criterion as a new criterion will appear when European funds are spent. In fact, this resolution without the proposed amendment by Mrs Kloc, on behalf of the Law and Justice, was much better than with this amendment. Originally, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats considered supporting this resolution, but with regard to the proposed amendment it seems to me that this support will not be possible. This will be the subject of a separate meeting concerning our joint decision. On the other hand, I would also like to propose an amendment to the text on behalf of the club PSL-UED. It would refer to point 5, which states that a multi-level shared management model should be redesigned to ensure that its main axes are mutual trust and result-oriented so that more competences can be transferred to the national and regional level. That's what the original sounds like. We want to propose a minor but important amendment: to the national level and, above all, to the regional level, because the attempt to centralise the distribution of the management of cohesion funds in Poland, which is carried out under the rule of law and justice, is even more announced. It is very worrying, it is harmful, it is contrary to the demands that you propose in this resolution. Therefore, in order to highlight the fact that it is regions, local governments should decide on the direction and volume of individual expenditures, we propose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u236	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Marcin Święcicki. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, I would ask you very much to ask Mr Sachaika, Mr Kukiz,15. Mr President, are you resigning from the question? [[No, I'm going.]] You're not going, that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will be brief. It's about these new criteria.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u238	Thank you. What are the estimates of the Ministry or the rapporteur on what would have been if this criterion of youth unemployment were taken into account? We know that at the moment there is huge unemployment, such a strange one, in Italy and France, where people earn much more than in Poland, where unemployment benefits are often similar, is what we earn in Poland. What, then, is the possibility of extending these criteria by average remuneration in individual countries? This would certainly help Poland to obtain a larger envelope for cohesion policy. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representative of the government, but above all for the rapporteur. Apart from, of course, the importance of cohesion policy for the development and modernisation of the country, I would like to ask what this project really does and what it will do for you if this project is in this form and not in another form, in the context of the presentation of this new EU budget by the European Commission on 2 May. Among the priorities are, above all, the euro area crisis and migration and asylum policy. The Austrian Presidency is about to begin. They have exactly the same priorities. I therefore have a question: Isn't it better to create a draft resolution that comprehensively covers all areas and priorities for EU policies? The aim is to ease, firstly, the tensions between the government and the Union due to violations of the rule of law and the destruction of the three divisions of power and, secondly, to change the image of Poland to be seen as a responsible partner, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which actively engages in problem solving. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u240	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u241	(PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few High Izbo! The question, of course, to the rapporteur. Madame, this amendment and the memory of how it will be in the future have just led me to enlist on the question. How do you and your option see government-level cooperation with local governments? What is the role of regional governments in shaping policies of distribution, management, management, investment in EU programmes? Is it just regional operational programmes that will be cut down and spending them even more backed up by the inclusion of government agencies in the steering committees, or will it be the role of real self-government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u242	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Minister Paweł Chorąż.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u243	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will not address the issue of the resolution itself, because it is an act of the Sejm itself, so it is not a document that would be a government initiative. But maybe one comment. If we are talking about the multiannual financial framework, if we are talking about individual fund regulations, there is a law on government cooperation with parliament and under the procedure provided for in this law all government positions will be presented. On the other hand, if we are already talking about the questions and issues raised by your Members, I would like to say yes. Mr Trzaskowski was gracious to say that for many years there has been an attack on cohesion policy. Yes, it was. This is not the issue that emerged today. Let me just remind you that there have been cuts in the order of 1/3, half of the total allocation for cohesion policy. This would also be noted and noted in the context of 10% cuts in the European Commission's proposal. The second issue, related to the criteria: the budgetary communication itself says that the dominant criterion for distribution will be GDP, the introduction of new criteria, such as youth unemployment, climate issues and migrant issues, should be considered. In the previous perspective, we had the Berlin methodology as the main criterion of division, but it is not that there were no other criteria. I would like to remind you that the European Council, when adopting the budget, established the so-called. Youth employment initiative, which is 50% co-financed by the European Social Fund. The entry criterion for this initiative was unemployment of over 25% among people up to the age of 24. These appropriations were divided twice and combined with the European Social Fund. In the first round Poland received EUR 252 million from this budget line. In the second chapter, after 3 years of implementation, because we are very successful, unemployment in all regions except one fell below the allocation criterion, to 16 million. At the moment, we are talking about integrating all the instruments that are social instruments into one fund, so-called. The European Social Fund Plus, i.e. the Social Fund, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the Fund to help the poorest and finally the Youth Employment Initiative. It can therefore be said that the indication in the budget communication of this criterion as an allocation criterion is to a certain extent a repetition of what we had in the previous financial perspective with youth employment. As far as the issue of more specific allocation criteria is concerned, today it is impossible to calculate on the basis of the provisions of the MFF that climate change issues are concerned. whether the issues of migrants will be the basis for them, because we do not know the exact indicator on the basis of which this would be done, nor do we know the weights of these indicators. Let me remind you that, in previous financial perspectives, the issue of the allocation of national envelopes in cohesion policy has been accompanied by negotiations to the final meeting of the European Council. So you can say this: this is an announcement that appears, but we do not know the exact scales yet. It can be said that maintaining the importance that is currently in the region of South Europe is certainly rewarding the regions of Europe, does not reward the Polish regions because we have dealt with this problem in the last 4 years of implementation of this financial perspective and at the end of last year we had only one region that would have unemployment above 25%. One thing. Mr Protasiewicz spoke about this. The Cohesion Fund has always been and always has been implemented at central level. When we talk about cohesion policy, only the regional development fund and the social fund were allocated at regional level. The Cohesion Fund is always implemented from the central level. Yes, it is, and most likely it will be. On the other hand, if we look at the whole logic of the discussion in the European Union, we can see - and this is not only the voice of the European Commission, but also the very strong voice of the European Parliament - that there is a very strong expectation that the responsibility of national governments for implementing this policy will be strengthened. Moreover, if we are talking about a regulation on the rule of law, it is in fact a regulation addressed to Member States, not to regions. Here there is also the question of the connection with the so-called. country specific recommendations, i.e. recommendations of the Council, and discussion on how to translate this into a regional level. So much for me to comment on. I will say once again: specific issues relating to all these acts, whether they relate to the income side or to the expenditure party in the multiannual financial framework, will be discussed separately when presenting the government's position, and so will specific issues relating to individual sectoral regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u244	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Izabela Kloc, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address two statements: Mr Owl and Mr Protasiewicz. First of all, I wanted to say that the Polish Parliament in 2012 actually adopted a resolution on the multiannual financial framework, but in these few sentences, literally four sentences, there was a reference to two policies, only two policies: cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. That is what we are doing - here I am replying to Mr Protasiewicz - in two separate resolutions. Today we are looking at a resolution on cohesion policy, and on 8 February - and it seems that it was the Member who had to simply miss it, because the joint committees, the Committee on European Union Affairs, and the Committee on Agriculture, have been working on it - that we have adopted a separate resolution on the common agricultural policy. So there is absolutely no negligence of the European Union Commission. We ensure that these two pillars are very strongly emphasized by the Sejm, just as you did in 2012. Of course, you did not accept those proposals which the opposition was making at the time, simply in these actions you supported the government, trusting your government. Law and Justice - I have also spoken here on behalf of Law and Justice - supports all the actions that the government is taking today to ensure that this budget is as good as possible for Poland. And we know that there are new topics: migration, external security. We are merely pointing out here that these issues must be financed not at the expense of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, but of new income. And this new income is on top of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u246	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union's Affairs Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 4:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 21 hours 16 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, - amending the Telecommunications Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws. Those reports shall include, respectively, prints 2498, 2464 and 2540. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the report by the Infrastructure Committee on the Government's draft Central Communication Port Act in print No 2535. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: Report from the Infrastructure Committee on the Government's draft Central Communication Port Act, prints 2473 and 2535, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For 227, against 194, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the agenda item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. All right, I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the review of item 52 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the protection of personal data. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2528-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Edward Siarka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft Personal Data Protection Act. The joint committees yesterday worked on a proposal for a Personal Data Protection Act. During the second reading, 10 amendments were submitted to the draft law. We propose rejecting Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 9 and adopting Amendments 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10. The Commission proposes to adopt the whole draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u248	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2528. The committees also present in an additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 1 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose that the competent authority be the General Data Protection Officer. Amendment 2 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club, asked. Time: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u249	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You will use every opportunity, even to bring Polish law into line with EU law, to destroy something, to replace a functioning institution, even if there is no need to do so. You are withdrawing the Office of the General Data Protection Officer, although none of the provisions of the GDPR Regulation require a change of the body responsible for the protection of personal data. The current model of operation of GIODO guarantees independence and ensures high standards of operation. Moreover, GIODO has become a very recognizable body that oversees the protection of personal data. As much as 84% the economic operators spontaneously identify this body as responsible for this protection. A question should therefore be asked about the social costs of this change. Question: "Why eliminate something that has worked well for 20 years?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u250	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 195, against - 236, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 48 draft law concerning the Board for Personal Data Protection. Amendments 4 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u251	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First, you wanted the Minister of Digitization and Home Affairs to recommend someone who would be the deputy president of the office. It turned out that this would result in more of his addiction and would be a leap towards his independence. Luckily, they pulled out of it. I would like to quote the opinion of GIODO, which presents doubts about the functioning of the Board for Personal Data Protection: The proposed scope of tasks of the Board undermines the powers of the President of the Office and at the same time contradicts the assumptions set out in paragraph 1. 1 that it is the advisory and advisory body of the President of the Office. Moreover, it should be pointed out that the supervisory authority is to act independently. The scope of the Board's tasks and possible composition of the Council raises doubts as to whether pressure will not be exerted on the President of the Office. The entire composition of this Council may be chosen from among candidates recommended by the Council of Ministers. Let it be so far that GIODO himself, on the basis of internal rules, will set up a council, which will be an advisory council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u252	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 4 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 233, one holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5. to Article. 22 § 5 of the Labour Code Act The applicant proposes that the maximum periods of storage and the obligations to destroy surveillance images should apply only to recordings containing personal data. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For -427, against -6, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Paragraph 53f. 1 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish applicant proposes to repeal the appeal to the Act on the Protection of Personal Data. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 282, against - 3 stopped 147. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th Amendment to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the applicant proposes among others. the addition of § 6 and 7 in Articles 6 and 7 13. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 275, against 1, with 156 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 108a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -433, against -1, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 175 of the draft law, the applicant proposes to amend the derogation provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -424, against was 2, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[One more question. Question.]] Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is one of the most important adopted in this term, because in recent months the word "GDPR" has been changed by all cases. It's an important bill because it applies to everyone who's dealing with personal data. These are companies, hospitals, drugstores. It's about anyone who's dealing with data. It is all the more shocking that the bill, which has been underway for two years in Parliament, is only being processed for two days. This can't be happening. Only 8% entrepreneurs - these are data from February - indicates that they have started any work on regulations related to the implementation of these issues related to GDPR. And they say that there is no basic aid from public authorities to comply with the new rules. Something happened for two years, but for two days the project comes to the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's taken care of instantly. This isn't right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u254	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Jóźwiak... Excuse me, Mr Józwiak, the Kukiz club15. [[Bravo, bravo, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u255	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the second one we're going to process in this mode. Yesterday we had one, and I was talking about how it's being handled, and today we have another one. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which we were investigating yesterday, still contains information about the fact that we are dealing with GIODO. Today we are proceeding over the second law, which absolutely changes its name. Ministers, when are we going to revise that bill, and who is going to pay for it? Because we're supposed to have a cheap country, and right now we're making laws in such order that we're going to be updating the same laws for the second time at the taxpayers' expense. That's the first thing. The second thing, it is a very important law, it concerns the personal data of citizens and we are once again working on it within 2 days. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, we will not work this way and we will not support such laws. That is why we absolutely cannot support this law. I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u256	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My predecessors pointed out two aspects of the approach to this law. The first refers to the process time and the second refers to the PUDODO name. Although phonetically I should not be in favour of such an approach, it does seem a little grotesque. There's really no point in changing the name of the institution. But I want to draw attention to a very important matter other than my predecessors. This is a question of responsibility of the Polish entrepreneur, to which you pay so much attention in the constitution for entrepreneurs and in other statements. This trader is not prepared for the GDPR regulation. This regulation comes in one way or another on 25 March. We are introducing this at the last minute, and there are no regulations implementing this law yet. That is why I urge you to do so and I ask you to pay very close attention to the information campaign. What does that mean? You can't say calmly that the court will take responsibility and may not punish. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law will be on the side of a natural person who will be able to refer it to the court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u258	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2528, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For-- 233, against-- 176, holding off on 25. The Sejm passed the Personal Data Protection Act. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. During the second reading, applications were made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. We proceed to the third reading. In the only minority application and in the second reading, the applicants propose that the draft law be rejected. We will vote on these proposals together. I would like to remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft print law No. 2526. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Marshal of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office on the Civil Code Act, the statute of limitations. He practically doesn't leave a dry thread on this bill. She tells me how angry she was. [[It's about the Supreme Court.]] By making recipes, you can type in anything. Paper will take it all, but brains won't. You have passed the Supreme Court Act on April 3rd. That's when she comes into force. On 12 April, you are adopting amendments. It's not gonna be a month, and we've got another law on the Supreme Court. This bill is wrong, she's not gonna make justice any better. The laws you make offend not only the Supreme Court, but above all an institution such as the Sejm, because you must not create the law you wish to create on political order. The law is meant to serve us, citizens. It's worth thinking about by pressing the button. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u260	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the rejection requests. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the minority's request and of the motion to reject the bill will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 198, against - 231, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u261	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the applicants: How many more times will you lie to the High House and to the public, saying that we are dealing with any reform of the justice system? You take the Polish Sejm seriously, but most of all, you treat the voters who have trusted you. You promised an emergency complaint, you spoke about a great reform of the justice system, but right now, in this bill, you are withdrawing from all your promises. From the very beginning, you were after one thing, you were only after the Human Rights Act, so that the Supreme Court, the National Council of Courts and common courts, just as in the past era, would be subordinated to the executive authority, so that the Minister of Justice would decide who would be the judge in Poland and what judgments would take place. So honestly, how many more times are you going to lie to the public? [[The bell, the applause.]] [[As many times as you're gonna go to the EC.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u262	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2526 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Za- 234, against-- 200, holding off on two. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2409. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2409 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 433, no one was against, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2487. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2487 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 431, against 1, with 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Law on Education Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2500-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law contained in print No 2413 was examined at the meeting of the Joint Committees. The Commission proposes rejecting these amendments, which extend the scope of the Act and propose adopting amendments 4, 6, 7. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u264	Thank you very much. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 2500. The committees in the additional report also present amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Education Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 63 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The questions were raised by Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Polish school is becoming more and more political. The political arms of the PiS ensure that there are more and more Pisiewicz in schools as school heads. PiS made sure that in the contest committee there was as much representation as possible of the school curator's representatives. The amendment we propose is aimed at depoliticising the school, so that the curator cannot block the choice of the school head if the competition is not settled. And the fact that the curators, when they fail to influence the competition committee, block the selection of good directors, can be seen in Łódź, where the school director was not appointed, can be seen in Krakow, where the very good director [[♪ The bell ♪]] schools supported by... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] She didn't win the contest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u266	Thank you. Now Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the amendment that goes beyond the scope of the law. The applicants, the PO club, are trying to justify that the probation officer is supposed to be political... [[It is.]] ...then all self-governments are without party colors. The Łódź, which was mentioned just now by the Member, is a city managed by the Civic Platform policy, but in the statements of the Member, of course, this politician is not a politician, because it is in the colours of the Civic Platform. [[He's elected in democratic elections.]] Therefore, you believe that local governments are apolitical, because they are from the Platform, and all the others who do not belong to the Platform are political and you want to eliminate all these others from the competition committees. Today, the school curator exercises substantive supervision over the activities of schools and, in the same way, the conduct of the school in technical terms should be taken into account in the appointment of the person who is to be the head of the educational institution. That's why it's up to now that the curator, in agreement with the local government, appoints the director when the competition committee doesn't decide. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The contest...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u269	...is absolutely legitimate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u270	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 181, against - 248, abstained - 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 63. 14 applicants propose to reword points 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 3 to 5. The questions were raised by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sometimes you can be really consistent. It is only a pity that this consequence serves the wrong cause, because once again you change the Law of Education so as to shift the center of gravity, decision-making towards the curator and ministry. My question is: Why do you not trust local governments that are responsible for the functioning of schools and institutions, for their funding, for maintaining a proper level of teaching, for maintaining infrastructure? They should decide first of all what kind of host the school and the facility will be, not the probation officer and not the minister. Governments change, ladies and gentlemen, be aware of that. [[Self-government, too.]] And the local government should last and the local government is the only host in its territory. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether you want it or not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u272	The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, a club called Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have to straighten it out. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice does not change the law in this respect. The Civic Platform is once again trying to start a political war and is returning to a topic that had already been resolved two years ago. We need to remind you of the composition of the competition committee that appoints the head of the school. These are three representatives of local government, three representatives of the curatorium, two representatives of parents, two representatives of teachers and one representative of representative trade unions. Therefore, the curator has the same right and the same participation in the competition committee as the local government. I would like to remind you once again that the school is subject to the supervision of the local government in terms of organisation, management and, on the other hand, in terms of substance, so that it can be verified whether it works well from the point of view of educational and educational principles. This proposal is probably going in the same direction as you propose in order to eliminate public administration at all. If you want to take out the voivodeships, I think you want to take down and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Curators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u274	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 37, against - 382, abstained - 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 63. The applicant shall propose to add point 14 (2) to point 2. c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 4 and 5 irrelevant. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the rapporteur. I wanted to ask if he was sure that any expert who should have taken the floor in the Sejm on this matter, on this amendment and on the entire bill, could have worked on it. Today, one of the protesters in the Seym hall said to Mr Żalek: In 2014 during the protest, I was able to go out and go back to him. You can't enter the Sejm today. You've got us in some kind of tape. Shame. You and the Sejm have made a besieged fortress. You don't allow experts, journalists, disabled people, even ministry workers. Mr Reporter, are you sure that trade union representatives can even take part in the debate on this law? And I have a question about what is the head of the Solidarity Fund, in which the President of the Polish National Foundation is better than the disabled, who cannot enter the Sejm today. Thank you so much, and I'm asking you to answer the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u276	Member Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose that the competition committee should include representatives of those trade unions who... [[That's not the amendment.]] No, three, ours, you're the ones with the wrong writing. Look, we're voting on the third amendment. [[These are senior members...]] No, no, that's Kukiz's amendment15, see. Mr. Marshal, please explain to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u278	But finish your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u279	This is our amendment in which we propose that only the representatives of those trade unions who operate on the premises of the educational establishment should be included in the competition committee. It's not like there's any need for outside trade union representatives... [[Voice from the room: This is not the amendment.]] ...and decided what the management of this facility was supposed to be like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Simple and logical.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u280	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 55, against - 376, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 63 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 14. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of Amendment 5. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Pomaska asked if all the experts could attend this committee meeting. [[Voice from the room: They couldn't.]] No, it's not. Today there were no experts, no trade union representatives, and yesterday there was no trade union representative, Solvency, who did not have a permanent leave to the Sejm. I would like to point out that we are merely asking for one thing, Mr applicant, to restore the state before school law, i.e. a dozen months ago, when the school authority, which has the most decision-making role and comes from choice, had the most members on the selection committee for school heads. This is absolutely right, and it is right, as I tried to prove to you at the committee meeting, that the curatoria is actually very politicizing the school, trying to politicize it. And the more the school's decision-making parole board, the more political the school will be. We want to avoid it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we have tabled such amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u282	The applicant shall have a vote. Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, it is necessary to recall what this law concerns. First of all, she clarifies how trade union representatives are elected to the competition committee electing the head of the school or educational establishment, second of all, giving teachers the right to vote secretly when it concerns personal matters. And this bill only regulates it. All you can hear in addition is political action and an attempt to politicize the problem. As far as experts are concerned, any of them could have taken the floor, even in writing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Those who were interested did so and, at the first meeting of the committee, trade union representatives also took the floor on the subject by submitting amendments, if any, to be accepted by the committee or presented by Members. So everyone had the right to comment on the matter. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u284	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 406, against -18, holding off on 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In this situation, Amendment 5 is without object. In Amendment 6. to Article. 73 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Platform Club. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There it is. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u285	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a very, very important amendment... [[Voice from the room: We are happy.]] ...and here a great request to the members of the subcommittee and youth teams, especially to Kukiz.15. [[Not this amendment, Madame.]] Well, the school has the most students... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ...and they're really the most important ones. [[We will support this amendment, which we will now vote on.]] The voice of the students should be heard, and that is why we want to give them this opportunity. I put an amendment in your hands yesterday, and today we will vote on it to give the students' council members the opportunity to attend the competition committees. You talk so much about young people, about increasing their participation in social life, public life... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ...so let's give the young people a vote in the competition committees. Let them choose their director, too. Today, after the conferences you hosted, we're just saying, "I'm checking." [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What about kindergarten? Kindergarteners?]] [[Not that amendment, but thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u286	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For -332, against -86, with a hold of 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment in the amendment to the Law amending the article. 1a applicants shall propose a transitional provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Is it normal and conducive to the quality of education that the school is without a director because the curator does not agree to the appointment of the director, blocking his appointment? Is the quality of education conducive to a situation in which parents forced the headmaster of the school last year, because the curator and the local government did not want to appoint the headmaster, and today the curator led to the indecision of the competition and the head teacher supported by the parents cannot become headmaster of the school? I bet the Cracow curator won't allow her to be called. Are these normal situations in Polish school activity? You politicized the school. This isn't surveillance. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u288	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -423, against -1 stopped 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was asked by Elizabeth Gapinska, the Platform Club... No, the Modern Club. [[No, the Civic Platform.]] Platform Club. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, it's indistinctly written.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! The Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u290	It's not modern anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u291	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that today at the committee meeting, when we voted on the amendments, we have once again been imposed on us by the PiS Members by the way they act and proceed in a committee which is incompatible with what has been done in the Sejm so far. [[With what the Platform wanted.]] It is usually the case that when we make amendments, there is always a vote in favour and a vote against. In this case, the applicant has requested that the voice, which is the voice of the Member presenting the amendment, be treated as a vote in favour. It just doesn't make sense to me. We are against this law because it does not respect what we are talking about, which means it does not allow two persons from the board of directors or heads of offices to be among the members of the board of directors. That is why the Civic Platform will vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u292	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2500, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 263, against - 139, with 35. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Education Law Act. We return to the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Energy and Treasury Commission for consideration. Questions. Mr Marek Sowa, the Modern Club, has come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To remind you, in this House, PiS has already adopted several such laws, among others. adopted bank tax, trade tax, trading gallery tax, which you are now extending to other properties, water+ programme, additional burdens for residents, energy+, higher VAT still applies... [[Set by the Platform.]] ...and return after 10 months to the fuel plus tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. I know you have a different, only idea: how to get the Poles out of the last penny. But what you're doing in this bill is really beyond human comprehension. In 10 years you want to download 17.3 billion PLN from Poles. That's what you wrote in the impact assessment. You charge in equal proportions large enterprises, small, medium-sized enterprises, families and households. This isn't the way. That is why this project must be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u294	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The tax that my previous speaker was talking about is not the only tax that this law imposes. This law also imposes a tax on electricity consumers. This law actually creates another state special-purpose fund. I have two questions. First of all, what happened that the man who served as Minister of Finance was against the creation of such a fund, and today, as Prime Minister, is in favour of creating such a fund? And question two, because I think there's something even worse in this bill. This law creates a mechanism for the embezzlement of Poles' money, because the money collected in this fund can be spent in the form of loans. Then these loans under this law can be redeemed and this money, since it enters the fund, are private funds, managers of this fund, because the basis for redemption is absolutely not any mode of public remission, but private law. [[It's a moneyjump.]] That's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jump on the... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...Polish money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u296	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u297	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister of Finance, very short, very precise: Is it true that as a result of this law the price of a litre of fuel in Poland will increase by about 10 gr? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Is that true? [[Voices from the room: No.]] And if it's not 10 gr... [[More, more.]] ...then how much will the price of a liter of fuel increase after this bill has been passed? [[Voice in the room: 15? 30?]] And while we are on the subject of vehicles, I would like to ask the Minister of National Defence: On what basis is Mr Antoni Macierewicz moving around Poland, creating a danger in circular traffic, the vehicle of the Military Gendarmerie with the driver of the Military Gendarmerie? [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u298	Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, please, Kukiz.15. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Member enters the pulpit with a canister that says: taxes of 53%, the rest of 47%]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u299	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Like Law and Justice...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u300	Take it off, sir, from the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u301	...makes such a disgraceful bill... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...see...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u302	Take it off the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: For what reason?]] This is not a circus, sir. [[Punish him!]] [[Voice from the room: Higher!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u303	... 47%... [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u304	How do you put gasoline in a seym?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u305	How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u306	Take it off the podium. Take it off the podium. [[Voice from the hall: It's not on the platform...]] But he's standing on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u307	I move that the project be rejected at first reading. We're against raising taxes, Kukiz.15 is against raising taxes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u308	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr Paweł Kukiz approaches the speaker and takes the can from Mr Łukasz Rzepecki's hand]] [[Turn on the mike! Now!]] [[Disgraceful!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 2411 and 2411-A would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 206, against - 232, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury for consideration. On the basis of the article. 95b... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 5 June 2018. [[Objection to the committee, referral to another committee. You didn't say if anyone was against it, but you pointed it right away.]] There's no... [[Game in the O.R.]] There's no way to object. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Act on Occupational Pensions Programmes. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2391. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, the Platform Club, came to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the rapporteur and Minister Rafalska. Are you sure that any expert who should have taken the floor while working on this bill in the Sejm, in the Sejm building, could have done so? [[Nitras wasn't there.]] I will remind you that today one of the ladies protesting in the Seym hall said to Mr Żalek: In 2014 during the protest, I was able to leave and return to the Seym. [[The voice from the room: It was.]] You can't go back to the Sejm today. You've got us in some kind of tape. You and the Sejm have made a besieged fortress. You don't let experts, journalists, disabled people in. [[Voice from the room: About.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u310	I think you're reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u311	But also what just happened is proof of that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u312	...the same question you've already asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u313	...that Mr. Marshal allowed parliamentarians to fall in Poland, and unfortunately this process is taking place. I ask your marshal to answer the question: Does he think everything is okay, or does he think that this should be a public debate in Poland? Because in our opinion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...definitely not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u314	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2391, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For -436, against -3, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Act on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 2442-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I checked, there's no gas, Marshal, it's empty. If possible, I would like to present a report to the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the system of conformity assessment and the Act on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. At today's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, we considered the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In the amendment to the article. The 12th Law amending the applicant proposes to amend the adaptation provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u316	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2442. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. The 12th Law amending the applicant proposes to amend the adaptation provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. Member, please don't read the same third time... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! Three times the charm, that's what they say, and there's hope. I have a question for the rapporteur: Does he think that the Sejm works normally? Does he think that anyone working on this bill could have entered the committee's meeting, could he have entered the Sejm? Is it true that today the possibility of entering the Sejm is very limited? This limitation applies to journalists, to trade unions, to disabled people, to students, to schools that want to see how the Sejm works. I ask you, Mr Reporter, to answer this question. As they say, three times the charm. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What does the rapporteur have to do with it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u318	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that not everyone could really take part in this vote. [[Applause]] Because of one thing. Well, there were problems with entry, and that was with the entry of government members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u320	All those who wanted to take part in the vote, Mr President. You're telling stories. We'll proceed with the vote. [[That's not true.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[The three committees didn't meet because you didn't let anyone in.]] Who's holding back? The Member spoke about the vote, not the participation in the committee meeting. 442 Members voted. For -418, against -1, halted 23. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.2442, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -430, against -2, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 19 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2513-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of 9 May to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, one amendment was tabled aimed at extending the catalogue of creative activities entitled to account for 50% of operating costs. the cost of obtaining revenue. This amendment was not accepted by the committee, it was rejected by a large majority. According to the Minister of Finance, the current catalogue contained in the Act also covers the type of activity proposed in the amendment, i.e. visual activity and computer graphics, as also confirmed by individual interpretations of the tax rules that have taken place so far. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u322	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2513. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 9b of the Individual Income Tax Act, the applicants propose a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pomaska, the way this Sejm works is best shown by this amendment. This amendment improves the three regulations we adopted at the end of last year, and we still have a self-correction to it, which has been amended. In this way, the way in which the legislative process is being conducted in this Seym can be summarised. We correct the errors of the bill sealing the tax system, introducing a minimum tax on commercial buildings and empowering creators and artists to apply the flat-rate 50% cost of income. What's with the amendment? Namely, a catalogue of creators was introduced into the law and raising the limit giving the possibility to use flat-rate costs, while some creators were excluded from this preference by using the wrong catalogue using this possibility. Today we correct it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's gonna go on anyway... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...it's leaky. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u324	The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to report this project to the new committee, the tax raising committee, and the unfulfilled electoral promises. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that wasn't an option because you moved on. As a rule, there is a question for Members whether we agree to this committee. But thank you. This amendment is important because it is about adding the creators of computer graphics also to the catalogue released. The Minister said that these people are theoretically covered, but are not written down. And we know how the tax offices work, we know how the courts work, how something isn't written, it's practically gone, no matter what the intention is. Therefore, I ask for the support of this amendment so that computer graphic designers feel safer and do not have to pursue their rights in courts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u326	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As it happens, I just met representatives of creators who were not allowed to attend the committee meeting at the Sejm yesterday. And I would like to ask the rapporteur why the representatives of the creators were not admitted to the debate that directly concerned them. And I would like to take this opportunity to speak while it may still be possible to point out that the Marshal of the Sejm is not from reviewing the substantive statements of Members... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...even if they say it a second or a third time. Mr. Marshal! You were reprimanded yesterday by the ethics committee for similar behavior... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and you have to be careful, because one more time... [[So what? So what?]] ...and this may be considered a violation of the House's seriousness. So be careful, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u328	I will not remind you here, for which I have been reprimanded, sir. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Be careful.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 216, against - 220, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, had previously asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice! Not only are you masters of producing legal books, you are still masters of one thing: introducing taxes so as to draw billions of zlotys out of the pockets of Poles. We have just voted on the fuel tax, which will be added to every mile of Poles... [[Did you hear that? A kilometer of Poles.]] ...and now we're expanding the commercial property tax. What is it? Last year we introduced a tax that imposed new costs on the property of shopping malls and office buildings. You said the mall didn't pay taxes, so they had to be taxed, which turned out to be bullshit. Today you are extending this tax to hotels, logistics centers, i.e. warehouses in which products purchased by Poles are stored. And eventually they're gonna pay that tax out of their pockets, just as they're gonna pay rent-a-houses from developers, just like hotel customers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] next summer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u330	Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it would be good for us to be aware of what is the basic reason for this act. Well, it's sloppy legislation. Imagine that on the 27th of October, a law was passed that we are amending today, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Why? Because the comments of the addressees of these provisions have not been taken into account, because it has turned out that the rules of the times of the PO-PSL governments are better, as the Ministry admits, and we are returning to them, [[Applause]] because it has turned out, ma'am, that European Union law has not been taken into account again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it better... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, movement in the room, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u332	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2513, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 410, against -24, holding down 5. The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 39 hours 17 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Government's draft law on Central Communication Port (prints 2473 and 2535). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! The first reading of the draft act on Central Communication Port, print No 2473, took place on 8 May 2018 at a meeting in the Sejm. On 9 May 2018, the Committee on Infrastructure, established for the substantive examination of the government draft law, reworked the draft law article after the article. The aim of the bill is to create a legal and organisational framework for the implementation of investments in the form of the Central Communication Port, broadly understood accompanying investments and creating a transport system based on its central location and other tasks, including investment, as well as revitalizations, contained in a comprehensive programming and strategy document to be developed under this law. The proposed regulations are designed to provide specific legal solutions to regulate and streamline the process of efficient preparation and implementation of the overall investment and development objectives. With regard to the draft law, two substantive amendments were adopted at the meeting and 36 legislative and editorial amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau were adopted. These amendments are intended to clarify certain provisions in the draft procedure. The first substantive amendment concerned the deletion of the article. 5 point 6 of the draft law on the repetition of the regulation already contained in Article. 27. The second substantive amendment concerned clarification in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 draft law of the concept of an instance of renewable energy source. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. On my side, that's all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u334	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, today we face a very big challenge as a parliament, government, Poland. The Central Communication Port will change the communication system of our country. I am not afraid to say that this investment can be compared to investments such as the Central Industrial District or for example. construction of the port in Gdynia. The challenge of the rule of law and justice deserves attention is also recognised in an international context. I believe that the project, which must have the power of the law, will be implemented in good time by means of very large, necessary resources, expenditures and, at the same time, resources that will be used very effectively. We're not talking about the construction of the Central Communication Port. We're talking about the airport. We are talking about the layout of the road network, the layout of the railway bus network, we are simply talking about the creation of a new economic instrument, thanks to which Poland will change the communication system, as communication will improve not only the location of the Central Communication Port, but also all the associated regions and connections, because the Central Communication Port will be the axis - we think - of economic development. High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request a positive opinion on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u336	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. [[Member of the Vipers!]] I would very much like to ask Mr Smoothman to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u337	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform shall submit its position on the draft act on the Central Communication Port and on the reports of the Infrastructure Committee on the work on this project, prints No 2473 and 2535. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, 7 May at 3 p.m. 18 parliamentary clubs were informed that the order of the current meeting of the Sejm was included in the first reading of the bill on Central Communication Port containing legal regulations giving the opportunity to prepare and implement a giant investment which, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, will remodel the directions of the state's transport policy. The next day, Tuesday 8 May, we have the first reading in the plenary room, 9 May - the examination of the project in the Committee on Infrastructure, today, 10 May, the second reading and probably today this project will be voted on. High Izbo! The legislative procedure confirms the idea that a concept was first created, and now the arguments and analyses will be adapted. On behalf of the club I pointed out that Okęcie airport still has expansion opportunities, Warsaw needs Okęcie, and Okęcie needs Warsaw agglomeration, that the alternative to CPK could be the duoport Okęcie-Modlin, that we modernised all regional ports to world standards, that the ports of Łódź, Radom and Lublin can be satellite ports for Warsaw, that the division of 40 to 60 applies, because 40% passengers are checked out of the central port in Warsaw and 60% - by regional ports that it is a mistake to justify CPK's investment in the needs of our national airline, that the construction of such a pier can cause many problems, as evidenced by foreign examples: Berlin-Branderburg Airport, Montreal-Mirabel Airport and Madrid Airport. There is no guarantee, there is no certainty that the construction of the Central Communication Port will guarantee the success of Poland's development, on the contrary, it is burdened with a gigantic risk. Unfortunately, our arguments are in vain. A political decision was made - the construction of the Central Communication Port is to be crowned proof that under the rule of PiS Poland gets up from its knees. High Seym! During the examination of the project in the Committee on Infrastructure, it turned out that this project was not only remodeled by the government in Poland, but also demolished by the Constitutional Authority of the State, which is the Council of Ministers, namely to delegate the constitutional powers of the Minister of Infrastructure to the representative of the government in the rank of Undersecretary of State in this Ministry. This concerns constitutional competence in relation to the Polish Aviation Agency, the State Company, the Airports and the supervision of the President of the Civil Aviation Office, as well as in the preparation and implementation of two major infrastructure programmes: the National Railway Programme and the National Road and Motorways Construction Programme. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I am making appropriate amendments to remove these harmful and corrupting laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u338	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u339	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to present a brief statement on the Government's draft law on Central Communication Port, prints 2473 and 2535. I've talked about this before, compared this investment to New Huta. This is a project that is likely to be economically overestimated, underestimated as regards the needs that will be in the future. Of course, we can look for other solutions, but what you are proposing is not good. First of all, you haven't determined the costs. In my opinion, this is the first very important issue, which is why we are against it as Modern. The second point is, of course, where it's supposed to be. You're planning on going to the Baran community. The residents, the inhabitants of this community are against it. [[Voice from the hall: They think people are ignorant.]] It'll probably turn out to be a referendum. Of course, we will wait for the results of this referendum, but the mere expropriation of potential owners in this mode, in a 3-month mode, is simply a scandal and I believe that this also needs to be changed. In our view, this project makes no sense. We're against it. We're not voting for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A great nation, a rich nation, a nation that thinks prospectively, must also organize itself around large projects to measure what it can do, to measure its dreams, but also to study the planning and real needs of the nation. Notice, this has already been mentioned here, our prewar stories. The Central Industrial District could employ 100,000 after several years of operation. persons. There was the location of the port in Gdynia, after all so mocked by the German side, by the European press. Location in a swamp in some village of Gdynia? After all, there was talk of a location in Władysławów, Tczew, and to this day we have a beautiful and modern port in Gdynia. To this day we are bragging about it, because it was a very good decision of Polish elites before World War II. And now it's our day. Ladies and gentlemen! A similar country, in terms of potential, is Turkey at a similar development point, which today is able to build a railway channel, a railway tunnel near Bosfor, which builds its central Turkish airport, although it has a ready airport today. Atatürk in Istanbul, which is huge. And yet they are expanding another airport, which will, attention, target 200 million people. It means they're thinking ahead. My previous speaker, Mr Żmijan, spoke about these failed topics of the expansion of airports in Europe. Of course, Brandenburg Airport is one major construction disaster. This is a stain on the honor of German engineers, architects and planners, but on the other hand the airport in Munich succeeded, in Frankfurt they succeeded. We are forced, obliged today to build a large airport near Warsaw. I think this is a good location. Modlin's not good. Let's give it to the planners, builders, build it, and let the government run the financial affairs. It's more complicated engineering. I therefore believe that we should go in this direction, we should defend this law. We as Poland, as a nation whose wind blows in sail, can afford such a large project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to ask another question? Excuse me, Mr Jacek Wilk, non-member. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u343	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So we're going to have another great building up of socialism. Let me disagree with my previous speaker, because the comparison to Gdynia is not the best. I'd rather apply a comparison here to the Central Industrial District. I'll remind you so briefly what the problem with the Central Industrial District was. There was a huge amount of money invested, construction lasted for several years, and actually at the time of the war the Central Industrial District almost didn't work, little of it, fell into the hands of the enemy. It turned out that a thoughtless investment, which is sometimes described as magnificent, but actually had the opposite effect to the intended one, was not a good idea. We have Chopin Airport in Warsaw, we have not used until the end of Modlin near Warsaw. We have a Radom airport near here. We have a whole bunch of road investments that need to be made. We should focus above all on roads that are still in bad shape. We don't have enough highways, we don't have enough expressways. They're snailing these constructions, dragging them forever. This is the most necessary for Poles, not another gigantic project, which is supposed to be only a monument to Mr.Matthew Morawiecki. Not for the great buildings of socialism, yes for common sense. This is not the investment that Poles need right now. This is an investment that will certainly not return, because the number of passengers who would use this airport is simply not available. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Common sense, then. I'll vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on the government proposal for the Central Communication Port Act above all, like my previous speakers, I can say that it is shameful for us to proceed. Because the government project affects the Sejm on April 27, as my previous speakers said. May 7th is the first reading in the Seym. 8, 9, today is May 10th. With the votes of one party, or this mono-government, we voted this out to complete the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, especially when it comes to such a huge investment, which is to be the largest airport in Poland. We are also of the opinion that this may be an overestimated project, but of course because of the need to keep in mind the development of infrastructure, we are in favour of talking about it, but not in such a way. I fear that if Mr Macierewicz, once Minister, had been Prime Minister, he would have said that this port would be built during this term of office. We're waiting on the committee, but we don't think that's how we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u347	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The key question is, why? Mr Khrushch rightly referred to the need for serious visions in the case of major projects, but this must have hands and legs. You have to have some rationality in all of this, in all of this behavior, and here we have a gianttomania, which, on top of that, based on a special bill, resembles communist times. Expropriation without any rights. This must not be done against the local government without consultation. We have a referendum. This is not just like lex Sasin, which is a classic bubble, it is like the worst communist times, but actually the decree of Bierut. Why? To destroy Modlin, and that's just because unfortunately you don't have a part in the Mazowieckie government? That's why to get revenge in Warsaw for Okęcie? The Warsaw government also defends this port, because it functions rationally and according to the expectations of citizens, the whole of Poland. Modlin has a good chance of developing. I'm in the air transport economy. Please refer to my work on the 1982 and 1984 duoport at the then SGPiS. Even then it was visible that as an agglomeration we have huge potential and handling of transfer transport, and of this local, own, but we still have Radom and many ports to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the cities of present voivodship. It is these ports and communication around them that need to be developed, not to create fiction so close to Modlin and Warsaw as something to overshadow them, build some illusory giantism and success...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u348	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u349	...in practice not available. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Central Communication Port is to be built without any economic analysis. Wouldn't the same money that could be spent on this port serve Poland and the inhabitants of Warsaw, inhabitants of many other Polish cities, if they were to expand existing airports, expand existing railway networks, modernise them? On the other hand, this money will take money out of all the other infrastructure facilities that are needed, without giving anything in return. At the moment, Okęcie airport in Warsaw is located closest to the city centre from all airports in the capitals of Europe. 7 km from the centre we have an airport that can be further expanded, which can increase its capacity. After the construction of the airport in Baranów we will have an airport farthest from the centre from all European capitals, i.e. 45 kilometers. There's no capital in Europe that has an airport this far. The construction of this port and the closure of Okęta means the degradation of Warsaw, the declassification, the deprivation of its metropolitan function, the deprivation of its ability to compete with Prague - airport 10 km and Budapest - airport 16 km. This airport in Brandenburg, in Schönefeld is to be opened 11 km from the centre of Berlin next year, and we want to move the most important Warsaw airport from 7 km to 45 km. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is nonsense, it is a hit in Warsaw, the degradation of Warsaw. We don't need this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u352	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u353	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You will have one success: farmers will become aware that the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal deprives them of their rights to their land because you want to expropriate them, and the Constitutional Tribunal will not be interested in deciding on this speciality. But your sin is even greater - you are devastateing the constitutional system. I asked questions during the plenary debate, I asked questions during the committee meeting, I will ask more. Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act on Government Administrations provides: the Minister responsible for Transport shall supervise the President of the Civil Aviation Office. Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of 3: Minister responsible for transport is under the responsibility of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. You're blowing up these decisions into space. Which rules will apply? Are the ones that are included in the specialty, or the ones that are in the system's law on administrative departments? I ask you to answer that question. One more thing: we asked for information about expertise, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or there were any. You didn't want to answer us, but the paper was commissioned. Members will be fine, we will find them all, and we will account for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u355	Minister! Suppose the forecast that the average Pole in 20 years will perform three flights, just as the citizens of developed western Europe are currently doing, is true. Suppose that's the case. But there won't be a port for ten years. Therefore, the question is what will happen in regional ports. Yesterday I asked you if you were aware of the overload of regional airports during the holiday summit, seasonal travel. Will this state continue? Because we know there's a decentralised model. And it could be the centralist model you're betting on right now. Of course, there is no feasibility study for him. When are you going to present them, and when are you going to show us the business model that's closing in? After all, this is important, but the most important thing is to answer Poles the question of how they will fly for the next 10 years. And you're obliged to do that. As for the big projects, I remember the discussion about the destruction of Polish rivers, causing them to become communication. There was a mention of PLN 100 million. It's been a few years, over two years, and what? In many moments, you didn't even go beyond the paperwork, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's hard to blame the opposition for being abstinent when it comes to your big building ideas so that it doesn't end up like a song: and we're sending rockets into the sky.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to congratulate you on your decision to build a central airport. I won't agree with my previous speakers that this is unnecessary. The central airport is a window in the assumptions... [[Like the Central Committee of the PZPs.]] This is a vision you must have - European business into the world. I know it bothers the opposition, because you didn't come up with such a great project that develops an economy that develops passenger transport. [[Then who ordered the papers?]] Let us work and have a vision of Poland for the 21st century. [[Just like Huta Katowice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u358	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Then don't let it bother you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u359	Unfortunately, when it comes to decisions, what is to be done and how is to be done, the Government of Law and Justice is indeed the leader in these matters. A great appreciation for the Prime Minister and the Government. [[100 million apartments.]] It's about being specific, not sitting around for eight years and not doing anything. Thank you. [[Long live Edward Gierek en bis.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u360	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u361	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I will begin by commenting on the comments of my predecessor, the Member representing the Law and Justice. Well, today in Poland you can find scary remnants of the centrally planned economy and central investments planned by communist governments in the times of the Polish People's Republic. [[Exactly.]] They scare the skeletons of unfinished investments, projects that looked good in plans that improved the well-being of those who then ruled all over Poland or from offices here, in Warsaw, or only regionally. As a result, Poland indebted, made it uncontrollable in terms of governance, and left behind completely useless monuments. Modern policy is about sustainable development. This should also mean regional investment, the development of regional airports and not the construction of a single central one. I wanted to ask your proxy: Are there any serious studies that indicate how this investment will affect the functioning of regional ports in Poland? This is not only about Okęcie or Modlin, which should be developed at much less cost, because they are located centrally next to Warsaw, but also about the ports of Poznań, Gdańsk, Krakow, Katowice and Wrocław. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u362	Please, the question is asked by Jolant Hibner, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u363	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a question for your attorney: Why is the State Company sociating airports blocking prepared development projects of Modlin? Why doesn't he allow it? After all, it is prepared in design, it is the consent of the other participants of this project, there are possibilities, there are areas, and the investments are prepared in full. Why are the airports blocking this? Ladies and gentlemen, there is one answer to this question. What's the point of this company? So there'd be a board of directors, so there'd be a board of directors. They'll be drawing money for the next few years, talking about what the plans are, talking about development, about what should be, only that it's going to be the same as these 100 million apartments - only on paper. Any investment, if it is to actually be created, should be made according to specific design standards. First you look at the local plans, whether it can be like this, you look at whether it's a design preparation, or whether it is - this is what colleagues said - a feasibility study, or whether it's finance. You didn't do anything about it. You're just throwing passwords. Your government is just a password. We build a port, 100 million apartments, we carry out projects in transport, it's about electromobility. You're doing everything you can, but there's nothing. Everyone's pulling out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nobody wants to do anything with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's bill is aimed at establishing the Central Communication Port, as it was said, airports that will operate between 50 million and 100 million passengers per year, compatible with the rail network. It will be a huge airport which responds to constantly growing passenger traffic, to the exhausting capacity of Chopin Airport, as well as to the development of LOT - our national carrier. For this investment to arise, a special purpose company will be established. I ask the Minister to present the main objectives of this company and the need for it to be set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u367	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We process this bill in express mode over the bill. I was talking about the details. How does the Minister see success in building this powerful investment? In the meantime - I talked about it - Minister Adamczyk appeared in the plenary room. We're talking about such a serious matter here, and the minister just didn't see it at all. Minister! Who is responsible for this investment, and why are you preparing for it this way? It's just gonna be a bust, and there's no question about it. It should be assumed that yes, the work will continue and, of course, the money will flow because there will be costs. We have such sad experiences. More than 11 years ago, we once established an agency for the operation of motorways in Poland. Do you know how many kilometers of highways have been built for these 11 years, Minister? 90 km of highway was built. It'll be the same with the Central Communication Port. That's too bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Nicholas Wild to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that, despite the fact that we are really talking about the purpose of the Central Communication Port, these are the only changes that you have proposed regarding the system issues. In your amendments, you do not question the way in which this investment is to be carried out. And rightly so, because it is one of the most modern specialists in the Republic of Poland, which in a perfect way accords the general interest with the interests of individuals. We could appeal here to the voices claiming that the bill introduces an inhumane way of expropriation. On the other hand, what I think is important is to see that wherever possible, the law is more favourable than any other specialty, which is more beneficial to the residents, which we could finally treat in partnership, and not as an unnecessary ballast when conducting investments. Now, one point, because the edge of criticism that I said was legislation, not a communication port as an investment, which I'm about to come up with... System issues. Your amendments are two. The first amendment says this: How is it possible that by law we appoint a representative who performs the tasks of minister? It is in your assessment a complete horror, a complete violation of constitutional rules. Let me say this: I think that a very valuable reflection on this issue could be presented by Beat Małecka-Libera, Member of the Civic Platform, who was responsible for drafting the Public Health Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 of that law provides for the appointment of a government representative whose purpose was to carry out the tasks of the competent minister under the law. We believe that this is a good solution, because with all the tasks that are incumbent on departmental ministers, they are not able to focus on one particular project due to the scope of their duties. That's why plenipotentiaries are appointed, that's what comes from the Council of Ministers Act, and in this system we move. [[But they can't replace the department.]] At this point, the question arises. The representative of the Government responsible for the Central Communication Port shall at the same time be the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Can you imagine the situation in which a government representative, who, I stress, is a Secretary or Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, does not simultaneously exercise oversight of the aviation sector on the basis of the principles set out in the Council of Ministers Act? I think that's a difficult solution to think about. Of course, there was another idea in the committee: let us change the law on departments, let us appoint a minister who will be responsible for the CPK. This is, of course, a very attractive version. We will call the Minister, the Deputy Minister, the Ministry, and then the Civic Platform Member will come out to this floor and say: You have the largest government in Europe, you are wasting public money. [[You got it anyway.]] [[Because it's true.]] [[Voice from the hall: You still have, and so do you.]] Our solutions, which we propose in this law, are not only effective and effective, but also cost-effective. We are not creating a new ministry to fight bureaucracy, and this is how I understand your idea: call a minister to break bureaucratic barriers. [[Applause]] It's not our idea. You say that by giving an opinion on strategic transport documents - at least that's what you said at the committee meeting and this is in your amendment - the proxy violates the status of the Minister for Constitutional Transport. [[He just left. He went in and out.]] I must admit that if it were as you claim, this status would be violated by the Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland, the Office of Railway Transport, the Institute of Railways, the National Chamber of Transport or the National Chamber of Commerce, because all these entities, by nature, always opinion strategic documents. Why? That's because we think it's good to put things together. It is good if entities that have different missions can synchronize them before the Council of Ministers decides whether it wants to go in this direction or whether it wants to go in another direction. That is the purpose of this regulation. The government's proxy is equipped with effective mechanisms, but at the same time these mechanisms are cost-effective. Now some answers about the Central Communication Port as an investment. The first of the questions that I was able to draw from your statements is the question: Why? And with all due respect for Mr Halicki's work, in the 1970s, after the location of Ursynów's settlement, peer planners, to whom I am convinced, you had access, said for the first time: okay, in 2000 we have to close Chopin... [[In Okęc 2, the plan of the south extension.]] ...because the extent of the immunity will be unacceptable to the residents. You say, let's make a duoport, or in other words let's split the traffic into several satellites, airports located around Warsaw. As I said at the first reading, this is a very attractive alternative in one case: when there is no national carrier that can establish at the airport serving Warsaw hub, because air traffic - I'm sorry if I say obvious things, but sometimes you have to - can be divided into two types: either we have a traffic that moves from point to point, point to point, and this is a traffic that is currently being carried out by regional ports, which for this reason are in no way competitive towards the Central Communication Port, or we have hub traffic, with the hub being set up by the airline, and hence the implementation of the Central Communication Port is linked to the existence of a network carrier that would like to create a base in the Central Communication Port. On the subject, the hub traffic is that we bring passengers from different regions, sometimes from different countries, as is the case today. German hubs, Hubs in the Middle East or Hubs in the Far East, in one place, and then we transport them either around the world to areas that we are unable to take off from regional ports, because the belts that are needed are too long for operations to be carried out, or the directions would be inefficient if we considered only passengers from one region. That's what the hubs are for, so we can make the air traffic profitable. In addition, of course, the hub passengers make the best money. The best revenues for airports from passenger transport are derived from the carriage of passengers switching. [[And what's bothering you to develop Modlin like that?]] This is not, of course, secret knowledge for the experts of the subject. [[What interferes with Modlin's development in this direction?]] The question is why don't you spend your money on more expertise. Because the expertise you ordered initially for 500,000. The euro in 2005 and 2006, later for several million in 2010, are confirmed. They're confirming. In 2010, when you ordered an expert opinion on whether a central airport was needed, you received a response: it is needed because it generates added value incomparable with added value in the case of a decentralised aviation market. You predicted that air traffic would increase in such a way that around 2020 Okęcie would clog. You took this concept, you canceled the minister, and you put it on the shelf. You spent several dozen million on a high-speed railway feasibility study. You spent and canceled the minister, and you put the project on the shelf. Don't feel sorry for us for realizing your dreams, too. We're also working on your plans. We collected what was best... [[Applause]] [[Then please develop Modlin according to its potential.]] ...and we do it in a better way. Don't be sorry we're doing this better than you are. [[It's unconstitutional.]] I do not know what amounts of analysis would satisfy you so that we can conclude that we have a completed stage of analysis determining whether to invest or not. Given the expenses that were incurred, it would probably be a few hundred million. We prefer to take into account what has been collected, to take into account those cabinets of documents that have been collected, and to draw strategic conclusions. We do not want to cedit strategic decisions as advisors, because the amount of data that has been collected is considered sufficient. It's a matter of expertise. A very important question. That is also the question of why we need a special purpose company. Localization experts were ordered today by the Polish Development Fund on the basis of the agreement between the representative and the Polish Development Fund. Experts on traffic forecasts were ordered, in agreement with the proxy, by Polish Airports. It's happening. But why could we decide that we need a port of solidarity, we need a Central Communication Port? Because the forecasts that have already been developed are working because we already know that the airport, which, I would like to remind you, moments after your minister's cancellation, you have built up the roads of rapid traffic so that now there is no possibility of its development, will be clogged in the near future. We have to do something. The decision to build a new airport is dictated by the forecasts that you ordered and the suto paid for. Don't waste that money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here's the last question: Why not Modlin? I already said that, the airport in Modlin is an airport where most have state legal entities. However, the problem is that there are no rules of the Commercial Companies Code, because the members of the Supervisory Board indicated by the PPL, as this is the result of the Statutes, are refused access to the basic financial documents. Unity, which caused the port, in which the majority have state legal persons, to be taken hostage by the local government, will be abolished when we restore the application of the Commercial Companies Code in that port, when we have an insight into the actual situation of the company, into the contract with its sole client. Then we can decide what to do with this port. I would like to assure you that it is not in our interest to make any disruption to the functioning of this port, because passengers who will not be served in the port of Modlin will go to other ports and increase their congestion. It's not in our best interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u370	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the draft law submitted were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 33 hrs. 21 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided: - delete from the agenda of the current meeting at paragraph 47, i.e.: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws, print no 2223 - continuation, - on the transfer to the next session of the Sejm of the third readings of draft laws: concerning the termination of international agreements, i.e. items on the agenda from 26th to 38th, on the amendment of the Trade Union Act and certain other laws, i.e. Point 7, about the management of the successful enterprise of a natural person, i.e. Point 18. Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club, made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, formally request that the sitting be adjourned by no later than 3 p.m. 23. Mr. Marshal! The case is curiasal, it concerns children and young people, and it is best characterized by the words of the student who said: We have come to learn democracy and the rule of law, and we have been treated as potential terrorists. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, children's and young people's trips to the parliament, the Polish parliament, are being refused. [[Scandal!]] Kids can't come in here because Law and Justice is afraid to show up... [[Voice from the room: Minister!]] ...what's going on in the Seym. [[Let them go to school.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Do you know how much a ticket from Knurów, from Rzeszow or from Szczecin to Warsaw costs? Does the marshal know how a child feels, who has known for months that he will enter Parliament, and the day before he finds out that he can't? [[It's been a long time...]] Today, you called me from the Sejm Universe and said that on May 15th, no trip from Primary School 4 from Knurowo-Szczygłowice will enter Parliament. [[Shame!]] Today, there was no trip to Parliament... [[Voice from the hall: From Rudy Śląska.]] ...from Rudy Silesia. Today a trip from Gieraltovic, middle school students from Gieraltovic did not enter Parliament... [[But Parliament is not an object...]] ...from the Silesian Voivodeship, and they were also invited by me. Many trips from all over Poland kissed the doorknob. But, as I'm hearing from Twitter, some people are entering parliament. [[Voice from the Chamber: President of the National Foundation.]] A member of the Law and Justice has taken a trip. I would like to know what rules are allowed into Parliament's tours? [[Because they're equal and equal.]] Why aren't you letting these trips in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the young people who have long been scheduled to enter parliament? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[How embarrassing are you? Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u372	I must inform you that I have been in this room a lot and school trips have been going through the gallery all day. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes, Members of the PiS.]] [[It's the opposite voice.]] Reported for...? [[It's a negative vote for a break.]] There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to the motion to adjourn. Why? Because the P.I.S. would have had to think for 10 hours, and he wouldn't have changed his mind, and he wouldn't have revoked that decision. [[Joy in the Chamber]] so it's a futile effort. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an outrage. We're in a siege fortress. Mr. Marshal, there really are children from schools here, only children from schools invited by Members of the Law and Justice. [[Scandal!]] That's the kind of information the guards gave us that it was a verified school trip. What do you mean, verified?! [[Applause]] What does that mean? [[Voice from the room: Don't yell!]] [[Disgraceful!]] Verified because you brought them in?! [[Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] You've divided society! You've divided this room! Now you're sharing children! Are you guys even crazy?! Do you realize what you're doing?! [[Disgraceful!]] Click on your heads! [[Applause]] Szczecin High School... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...children from 16th High School uninvited. What's that even? You're afraid to show up... This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u374	Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Why did you turn off the microphone?]] Mr... There was a formal request for an adjournment. I'll put him to the vote. You're welcome. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 201, against - 227, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Voice from the room: The children won't let you in.]] I would like to remind you that the Modern Posel Club has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Penal Code Act and the Law on Associations, print no. 2251. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code and the Law on Associations, print no. 2251, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Za - 203, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the law on the signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2387. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2387 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 260, against - 25, with 146 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print 2292-A. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! I took part in the presentation of an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws, print No 2215. This is another draft law resulting from the government's programme of life, which aims to support people with disabilities and their families. At its 62nd meeting on 9 May 2018, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2292 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting yesterday, requests amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 17 to be rejected and amendments 9, 14 and 16. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u376	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2292. The Commission also presents the minority proposal and the amendments that we will be voting on first. The minority proposal and the amendments from 1 to 7 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending amendments to the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. In the first amendment to Article. 10a applicants shall propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That's an amendment. In fact, technical, my dear country, because it simply gives real time to assess the progress made in rehabilitation by a disabled person in occupational therapy workshops. That's the amendment the professionals made. My question is: Why do you not want to listen to professionals who have been working in social rehabilitation for people with disabilities for years? On the other hand, you want to accept an illegible, unrealistic record, because you cannot diagnose a person's health so quickly. That's what the officials propose. I ask you to think about it, because this is not a political amendment, this is an amendment that will make it impossible to create a law that is fictional. The evaluation will only be on paper if you accept such a provision of law as you have proposed. Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u378	The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns the period after which the Programme Board makes the first comprehensive assessment of the capacity of the participant in the occupational therapy. On this basis, an individual rehabilitation program is created. At the request of non-governmental organisations, Kukiz15, and previously Modern, applied for an extension of the proposed time from 3 months to 6. This was to be regulated in the project records as regards the actual assessment of the capacity of the participant in the occupational therapy workshop. I would like to ask if you really think, sitting in the government in Warsaw, that you know better than representatives of workshops of occupational therapy distributed in the country and on this matter speaking with one voice, how these workshops should be conducted. Is it right to transfer these competences to district disability courts? Why do you decide about any organizations without listening to the voices of these organizations? I mean, they know what she looks like best. [[♪ The bell ♪]] work on... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u380	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 192, against - 231, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 10b applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment responds to the expectations of NGOs, as these solutions were included in the original project. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why PiS Members do not want to take these proposals into account, because the external measures referred to in this Act are not a permanent source of income and are often an occasional source, but have a huge impact on the level of funding for the workshops for occupational therapy. Therefore, we believe that it is worth introducing the provision in our proposal for the proper functioning and motivation for additional activities of the workshops on occupational therapy. That's what we're asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u382	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment also responds to NGO requests. It concerns one-off or ad hoc measures obtained from non-governmental sources by occupational therapy workshops. It assumes the restoration of the initial provisions from the public consultation phase, which provided for the possibility of financing from non-governmental sources, which would not affect the amount of funds transferred from public funds. The present provision may result in the limitation or non-adding of such measures. I ask you to answer the question of why you want to limit the possibility of acting on WTC. The Polish state cannot afford to provide them with full support, which would guarantee the proper conditions of operation and activation of the subjects. So why are you putting in place records that limit them from being able to safely finance their activities through donor support? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u384	Thank you. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz has the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because Members, even though it has already been translated in committee, are returning to the same questions... [[They weren't all on the committee.]] ...I will repeat the answer again and to the first question, and to the second question. As regards the first question, the Programme Board shall assess progress in the implementation of the rehabilitation programme after at least 3 months, but no later than 6 months, since the person is previously evaluated by the disability panel and there are indications of placement in the occupational therapy workshop. With regard to the second question, we have repeatedly explained that the provision you are proposing will have exactly the opposite effect: it will reduce the possibility of using external financing because the law provides a percentage of what the input must be, the contribution from the local government, and any increase in funding increases the percentage share. And you're saying exactly the wrong thing. What is written and how it is written was consulted with the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legislative Office, and this is their proposal, as it is to be written, to keep the idea that the workshops of occupational therapy can benefit from additional funding and at the same time to have a share of the local government of 10%. We want to show it in the form of a quota, show that it's not going to change, show you how much it's going to go out. Regardless of the funding for the workshop during the year, the local government will have to pay this amount. I am surprised that, despite the discussion, although Mrs Teresa Wargock showed this on an example, they continue to pretend that they are fighting for workshops. You want to hurt the occupational therapy workshop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u386	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 201, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. 10f The applicant proposes to add a new wording to the added paragraph. 2a and 2b. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz club15, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! That's not the case at all, because the answer to that was actually given to you by a county union representative who said that he was actually enjoying this record because he wouldn't have to give - but it's only to correct - so much money for a workshop on occupational therapy. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns one thing. The Act aims to encourage people with disabilities to enter the labour market. The main reason why they don't do this is because they're afraid that they won't have a place to go back, if they just don't succeed in this job market. This amendment guarantees them the possibility to return to the occupational therapy workshop for up to 3 months. Then the effect will be really greater than the one to which you convince that it can only be included on the list. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u388	The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The protest of people with disabilities, their guardians, parents already lasts almost a month. Minister, these mothers wrote to me that they were waiting for you and asked if you would come to them now, after the votes, and talked to them about the compromise they had proposed. [[Voice from the hall: What about Prime Minister Szydło?]] Adrian's waiting, Cuba's waiting, Victoria's waiting, Magda's waiting. [[Go to the setup with TVN, I'll talk to you about it.]] They're waiting for you to come over and just talk to them. I'd like to know if you'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u390	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 202, against - 219, holding one. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. 10g applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You have introduced an important, needed change in the proposed project: the possibility of a disabled person returning to WTZ within 3 months. Minister, the often repeated demands of a non-governmental organisation are such that this possibility exists within 90 days also for people due to their mental or physical illness. The Minister often stresses that every disabled person requires an individual approach. Yes, individual and flexible. And that is the amendment that completes the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u392	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Wróblewska Cornelia.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yes? Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In consultation with the occupational therapy workshops, this amendment drew attention to participants who, due to their deteriorating or current psychophysical condition, are unable to participate in a full 7-hour programme of activities. Such participants were also invited to participate in the activities of workshop clubs. According to the government, people in the current or worsening psychophysical state preventing participation in workshops will be able to go to the DS. Currently 40 powiats remain without such houses, but the government ensures that there is a financial reserve of PLN 72 million for the creation of new environmental houses. Question: Is it true that a reserve of 72 million is created for this purpose? Where are the resources, Minister? Where are they written? When and how will they be redirected? How many new DS's have been reported? What will be the total cost of creating them? Is the money mentioned [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's enough, too...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u394	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u395	... for their functioning and maintenance in the following years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u396	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 204, against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 22 applicants shall propose in paragraph 2. 5 the other wording of point 2 and the maintenance of the existing wording of paragraph 2. 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u397	High Seym! Occupational activities are becoming increasingly difficult due to insufficient resources, including the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, and the introduction of new rules for the granting of reliefs is very acutely hitting occupational activities. For giants who provide multimillion-dollar relief, this recipe is completely meaningless. As far as occupational activities are concerned, the average of which is 150 000. each year - this reduction by half of the reductions granted severely affects their market capacity. That means the possibility of falling such ZAZs. Don't you realize that? Why do you go in denial and push for a recipe that will destroy PFRON and give these million-dollar reliefs, not touch at all, and not limit those benefits, and betting on the workplace poses a risk of budget collapse? Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u398	The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the Minister. Minister, the 4th amendment concerns the functioning of occupational activities. In this project, the possibility for ZAZs to grant reductions was limited to 50% of the value of invoices. For ZAZ this could mean a serious loss of market stability. Currently, only some ZAZs have the right to grant reliefs in PFRON's deposits. These give them about 150,000. per year, which does not exceed 12 and 13 000 per month. If we limit the relief to 50% the invoice issued, ZAZ-y will become even less competitive and we will make their situation worse and worse. A 500,000 limit solution was also proposed. annually in terms of granting such reliefs. The government has responded negatively to all proposals for solutions, admitting that the situation of ZAZs is difficult, but we do not know how such a provision will affect their functioning. He pointed out that the article referred to in the amendment refers not only to the ZAZs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that such a regulation is being developed? And isn't this kind of work just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u400	Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz has the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide that I am slightly surprised because this question and the previous question went beyond the content of the bill that we are currently pursuing. Of course, I agree with Mrs Wróblewska that the issue of environmental self-help homes is important for people with disabilities. We still have 40 counties where there are no environmental self-help homes. Every year there is a reserve in the budget for creating new environmental self-help homes and new places. Through voivodships proposals are collected from individual powiats and in the case of those districts where there are no environmental houses, there are preferences for them to arise. The 72 million mentioned by Mrs Wróblewska this year will be spent on creating new environmental homes and financing places in these houses. As regards Mr Piechota's amendment and this discussion, of course, we believe that occupational activities are a wonderful form of rehabilitation for some people with disabilities. We want companies to exist and develop, but in this law that we are working on today, we do not deal with professional activities. We're in the middle of an occupational therapy workshop. We are currently preparing solutions that will help companies to work. They're actually in a lot of trouble. Those who work there are certainly those who need support. We will support professional activities, but this amendment goes beyond the scope of this law. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether the use of 50% relief the amounts of the invoice are sufficient, but you must remember that we are talking about each individual invoice. We're not talking year-round calculations. At the moment, we are analyzing this thoroughly and we do not see the negative effects of the introduction of this provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u402	The Member was not mentioned by name. [[I was.]] Please, in corrigendum mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u403	Minister! Don't pretend you don't understand what this provision has to do with professional activities. [[But he doesn't understand. He doesn't have to pretend.]] [[That's what he looks like he doesn't understand.]] After all, they also grant reductions in payments to PFRON, so if you change the relief mechanism, this means that this also applies to professional establishments. On each invoice, catering, gardening or printing plants provided almost 100% of the total The relief, but the accumulation of their reliefs was about 150,000 a year. and next to them are employers who give gigantic, multimillion-dollar reliefs, but they never exceed 40% from one invoice, so this change will not affect them, while ZAZ will severely reduce the possibility of obtaining orders. So don't ignore it, because it will have a direct effect on the ZAZs. You're imposing this change now. Leave the old recipes. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u404	We'll proceed with the vote. Minister, but the time for discussion was at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Sejm is from discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u405	Two sentences. Ladies and gentlemen! This law does not deal with occupational activities. We are working on solutions that will also take into account the problems that the Member has mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u406	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 201, against - 233, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the changes concerning, inter alia, decisions issued by the President of the Management Board of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u407	Does Minister Rafalska realise that as a result of the changes, she will be deprived of control over decisions issued by the President of PFRON and the voivode in relation to the system of support for persons with disabilities? [[Applause]] Now the appeal against the decision of the President of PFRON will be dealt with by the President of PFRON and the appeal against the decision of the voivode will be dealt with by the voivode. The Minister explained that this opens up a quick court route. Do you really not understand that this means that the decision becomes final and enforceable, that it is necessary to enter a judicial alert, and finally that it is necessary to wait for the decision of a court which, for obvious reasons, will not be issued immediately? Many NGOs will put this in an extremely difficult situation. I already mentioned to the Minister at the committee meeting: look at the Caritas workshop in Jelenia Góra, and you will understand, Madam Minister, what danger you are putting yourself in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] NGOs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u408	The question will be asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns the withdrawal from the idea of winding up the two-instant appeal proceedings against the PFRON decision. The solution proposed in your project assumes that the appeal against the decision of the President of PFRON is considered - who? - President of PFRON. There's no parent institution. [[I've heard that before.]] Possible inconsistencies and conflicts will be resolved on a judicial basis. The judicial decision is final, with the full consequences it brings, and this poses a threat that NGOs will either be unable to obtain funding or have to repay the existing funds. In addition, the judicial route requires a percentage contribution that most NGOs simply cannot afford. Do you think that this way - the judicial way - will not block the possibility of appeal too much? Where the organizational facilities are expected to make the percentage contribution needed [[♪ The bell ♪]] To start a case? Can't you change that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u410	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 199, against - 224, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add an amendment to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 adding point 3 and giving the new wording of paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u411	Ladies and gentlemen! We all know very well in this Chamber that local companies are short of money and the PFRON subsidies are insufficient. The amendment, which we will be voting on in a moment, gives local governments the opportunity to provide transparent financial support to their local employment institutions. This amendment gives local authorities the legal basis for providing them with an entity grant. The environment of people with disabilities is therefore asking to give the possibility and opportunity of functioning of local government ZAZ. At this point, I would like to make it clear that if we do not give local governments the ability to operate these ZAZs today, they will most likely fall in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen, is this what you really want? Is that what you meant by amending this bill? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bis! Encore!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u412	We'll proceed with the vote. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the amendments we are talking about, as I mentioned earlier, go beyond the scope of the regulation of the law. At the same time, I would like to add that I am surprised that the Members who have acted before and now do not remember that the fact that decisions will go directly to the Voivodship Administrative Court is not a bad thing. It's the other way around. The fact that amendments to professional activities would require consultation of the Joint Committee on Government and Territorial Self-Government is not a bad thing. This is the duty of Members if you are proposing amendments that fall within the scope of the action of the local government. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the amendments tabled by the Civic and Modern Platform go beyond the scope of this law. We'll proceed with the bill, and I promise we'll take care of the occupational activities, but in the next law. [[Applause]] [[You're squatters.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u414	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 232, holding off on one. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add an amendment to the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u415	Minister! We did not have fluctuations in support of the solutions you proposed and which went beyond the original submission. We had no hesitation in believing that it served people well. And you're referring to such psychic, formalist obstacles. To what? Let the local governments support their ZAZs? The amendment we are now considering is of the same kind. Employee activity is becoming more and more oppressed by fiscal bureaucracy. Or what? An absurd demand was made for ZAZ to transfer the surplus from the year he worked out to the share fund in the year in which it was created. And it is obvious that what this surplus is, it will be known in the following year, after approval of the balance sheet. And that's all the ZAZs are asking. And you insist that this goes beyond the original submission. Do you want to tease people? Do you want to keep your papers in order, but at the same time, you're aware of how [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this paperwork bad for people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u416	The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This amendment is an articulation of the request made by operators of professional activities. It concerns the problems of the tax administration with regard to the transfer of funds from the establishments to the employment fund in the year following the year in which the income was generated. According to the administrative demands, unions should do so by the end of the year. It is not possible to comply with administrative demands. The Commission therefore requests an extension of the deadline for the transfer of funds up to 2 months after the approval of the balance sheet. The government adopted a negative position, said that the amendment was interesting, but it requires a deeper analysis and consultation with the Ministry of Finance. In that case, will there be consultations on this issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u418	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 203, against - 229, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 174 in the Labour Code Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u419	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For 8 years, during the economic downturn, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party managed to introduce: annual parental leave, longer than in Finland and Denmark, its monthly average cost in 2013 is over 2 000. zł... [[Voice from the room: Raise retirement age.]] ...paternity holidays, which were used in 2014 by almost 130 thousand. fathers, and parental leave for mothers of disabled children up to 6 years old, for all this time paying social security contributions. In this amendment, mothers ask only one thing: for free leave. Minister, can't you even afford free leave during the economic situation for mothers taking care of disabled children during their parental leave after their leave? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u420	The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns the introduction of a new free leave at the request of a worker who takes care of a disabled person. Holidays are to be used mainly for parents who are born with a disabled child. The first period after birth is already secured by issues such as maternity or parental leave. However, the amendment concerns the time when leave is over, but the parent needs more free time to take care of the disabled child. An employee should be able to take additional leave for one to five years. This gives the worker protection and the employer a clear perspective on how long the employee will be unavailable. Ladies and gentlemen, you have looked at these comments, you have expressed your opinion that there is a noticeable problem. I ask: Why do you recommend rejecting this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u422	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 197, against - 226, with a hold of 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 10 irrelevant. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an amendment prepared by law and justice. I am asking a question about this amendment because ours, which is the next amendment, is the same as your amendment, and I am very pleased that you have tabled such an amendment because you will vote on yours and reject ours. In view of the above, I wanted to ask you one question. The amendment concerns that there should be 12 times the amount of the social pension, which is defined in the Act as a income criterion for clearing persons who are caring for a disabled person. Twelve times the amount of the social pension, and not so far - now we have the amount of PLN 10 080. Therefore, I just wanted to ask you a question: Since you have taken into account this amendment for which so long, the environment of disabled people has been fighting for so long, why haven't you made a decision to introduce it immediately? What's all the fuss? What's the circus for, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u424	State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, we agree here with the opposition that it is important for people with disabilities to deduct the rehabilitation allowance for families with disabilities. They have a rehabilitation relief, but it is important that what they get - a social pension, a care allowance - does not exceed the amount that entitles them to a rehabilitation allowance. Our amendment, which we are talking about, is more beneficial for people with disabilities and their families. We are also talking about twelve times instead of a specific amount, but we are talking about twelve times the pension, which is in December, because the pension is valued during the financial year, it is valued in March, so if we are only counting in a given year, then we must take into account that at the beginning of the year it is lower, after March it is most often higher. We're talking about 12 times, but counting in terms of the pension amount in December, which is after valorization. That is why we believe that our amendment is more beneficial. On the other hand, I am pleased that Mrs Wróblewska also believes that it is worth giving families with disabilities the opportunity to benefit from a rehabilitation pension. So I would ask you to support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u426	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 429, against - 1, he abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 10 is pointless. In amendments 11 and 12, by adding new articles to the draft amending act, applicants propose changes to the amount of the allowance and the care allowance. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u427	High Izbo! These amendments concern equalisation of the welfare allowance of PLN 153 and PLN 209 respectively, raising them to PLN 500 per month. It is inconceivable to consistently reject these proposals, which meet the demands which the parents in the Sejm demand and demand, especially as the mechanism for paying them has been known and applied for years. It is unacceptable to say that there is no money for this, since we know that billions are spent, for example. to build shooting galleries in every county. So, yes, hobbyists, gunmen can count on the PiS government, and the weakest can't count. The empathy declared by the government is only in the sphere of declaration. The facts contradict her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u428	The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u429	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendment refers to the alignment of the amount of care allowance with the amount of care allowance. Both benefits took place from the same amount of PLN 153. The amount of the welfare allowance paid from municipal social assistance centres has remained unchanged until today. The care allowance paid by the Social Security Office is increasing as the benefit in the pension scheme is achieved. In terms of equalisation of benefits, the amount of PLN 500 was proposed. This is the target amount, the stages of the transition period being worked remain a matter to be determined. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you're aware, but this amendment would solve two problems, you would meet two demands that the protesters in the Sejm are asking for. This would solve your huge problem: the image problem you have today, the problem with protesters, what not only Poles are looking at, the whole world is looking at. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We had a meeting of the European Parliament's committee, which pointed out that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the whole European Parliament is looking at it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u430	You have the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, particularly experienced Members, it is good to discuss amendments at first reading in committee, as the report is prepared, and most of these amendments were tabled yesterday at second reading... [[That's not true.]] ...and of course they often... [[That's not true.]] ...causing a problem because they do not take into account the whole context of events. [[No, you're not, Minister, you're not.]] I will remind you that as regards the amount of the care allowance, it is also linked to the amount of other benefits, e.g. capital pensions or benefits for combatants and repressed persons. For example, the maintenance supplement for a war disability completely unable to work and self-existence amounts to PLN 323,76, i.e. 150% the maintenance allowance. The care allowance shall also be increased by 50% in the case of civilian blind victims of war activities with an inability to exist on their own. At the same time, the amount of the care allowance is linked to the amount of the capital giving entitlement to the periodic pension. As of today, the minimum entitlement to payment of this amount is twenty times the maintenance allowance, i.e. PLN 413.80. Such a significant increase in the amount of the allowance would deprive some women of the right to a periodic pension and the persons entitled to inherit after their death the funds for that purpose. If that's what you're talking about... Definitely not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u432	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 11 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 232, one holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, adding a new article in the draft amending act, applicants propose to amend the Family Benefits Act concerning special welfare benefits. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment introduces equalisation of benefits for carers of disabled persons and is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 October 2014. That sentence came at the request of the PiS Members. At the time, the PiS felt that it was necessary to equalise these benefits. What happened that you changed your mind about this case today? Why haven't you served the sentence you demanded in three years? Is this social group worthless to the PiS, as your fellow Members, Mrs Krynicka and Mr Zalek have made this clear? If this is not the case, please support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u434	The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u435	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014 at your request. I can honestly say that I don't understand at all, because this amendment would have done something good. You're shooting each other in the foot again. If you had introduced this amendment, my law, which has been being examined since 2016, on equalisation of benefits, implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, would no longer be unfounded, I would have no argument to defend it, Minister, that I would have no argument to attack you. You could do so many good things - so many good things for the people who are protesting here, who are about to start a protest, right after those people who come out of the Seym. You will have a year of protests of people with disabilities. Why don't you bring it in on your own? It would have been your fault, and that's how you're going to have a year of protesting people with disabilities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u436	Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u437	Mr. Marshal, one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed many benefits for carers of disabled persons. You are introducing an amendment here, which only takes into account the special welfare allowance. What about the welfare allowance for a disabled person? What about the next group of guardians? [[Well, put it on.]] Do you want to share the guardians with the better and worse again in this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u438	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 201, against - 231, holding off on 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th Amendment, which includes the addition of new articles in the draft amending act, applicants propose amendments to the Act on support for family and foster care and the Law on State aid in raising children. This amendment is combined with the 16th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 14 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -427, against -2, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment, adding a new article in the draft amending act, applicants propose amendments to the Law on State aid to raise children. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u439	How important this amendment is, we can see in the case of deaf children. Thanks to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help Jurek Owsiak every child has his hearing tested in the first days of his life. A quick diagnosis is an opportunity for effective help. If it is necessary to implant a child with an implant, it is best to do It's in the first years of my life. But it's a big cost. The implant costs 170 grand, and two more hearing aids are needed, each of them 20,000. Implants and cameras allow the child to grow and be independent, but they do not improve the deaf child. These children will be disabled forever, they will remain with them for the rest of their lives, but the benefit of 500+ will be only 16 years old. Children with disabilities need support and rehabilitation regardless of whether they are 15 years old or older. That is why we propose this amendment - so that children with disabilities also have real support from the state to a slight extent.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u440	The question is asked by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u441	If it's true, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That PiS wants to help...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u442	... Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u443	...we'll see how you vote. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If you had found a little bit of your valuable time to read the Modern Law of 2016, if you were willing to come to the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Persons with Disabilities, because you weren't, as we tried this law, you would know that this law doesn't divide, but links, executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, responds to the needs of all groups of people with disabilities. There are absolutely no divisions there, Minister. There can be no situation that if you do not have the resources for all, you will not follow the demands of any group. You can't do that. This amendment also concerns divisions and if you do not vote on it, you will divide the environment. Why are children between 16 and 18 years of age with a slight degree of disability not treated as children and don't get money from 500+? Answer that question. Why do you share the environment of people with disabilities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u445	We'll proceed with the vote. [[But the answer.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 202, against - 227, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 20 draft law amending applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication with certain exceptions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u446	High Izbo! Do you see this clock? It's ten minutes past the hour. 22. This is the time to proceed over a law that concerns the protesting environment for almost a month in the Seym. This amendment is a call for the correctness of legislation. We have asked the Minister, we have asked the President to make proposals, so that this bill can be sent to the subcommittee where we would speak among the experts concerned. No. It had to be examined by the entire committee, inefficiently, without experts, without the possibility of the participation of interested parties, because we were appointed such rooms that we could not enter. Could the experts have gone to the committee meeting? No. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The Minister says today that this could have been done in committee. Yeah, if this committee were actually working. Mr. Marshal says it's for the committee debate. Yeah, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If this committee were working well. We're calling for good legislation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u447	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 193, against - 227, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Piechota, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u448	The Minister said that we discussed these amendments yesterday, but the Minister remembers the conditions. Under pressure of time, because it was necessary to release the hall, and at the same time according to the fanaber of Mr. Marshal Kuchciński two commission halls were shut down and converted into something called the Media Centre. Similarly, yesterday, Marshal Kuchciński's decision was not allowed into the Chamber, to meet representatives of the social partners. And that's why we need to talk about it here today. We want to make it clear and ask: Why does the PiS government, under the protection of the necessary and expected solutions, introduce harmful solutions and completely ignore solutions that have long been advocated by the environment for people with disabilities? These positive, these expected, the necessary solutions will be supported, and for these harmful and still awaiting full responsibility is the Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u449	The question is asked by Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to provide support for the disabled, to give them money, this money must be in the budget, and in order for it to be in the budget, Poland cannot be robbed. However, for the last six months in this House there has been complete silence, apart from my speech and my appeal, about the scandalous bill that Donald Trump just signed yesterday, a bill to support the US administration for the multi-billion-dollar claims of Jewish communities in the United States. [[Get off the stand, fascist.]] Unfortunately, there was no time for the High House to speak in this matter once again. [[Voice from the room: And that's about it.]] In this case, Polonia fights in the United States, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and the Polish Ministry sabotages these actions. [[Get off the podium!]] Polish diplomacy did not fight this law. Today we are in such a situation that the US administration will be used to enforce claims against Poland. This is outrageous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is scandalous that the Sejm is silent in this matter. [[Voice from the hall: We say no to fascists!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u451	State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members in this House. This is the third act on people with disabilities that will be passed this week. Ladies and gentlemen, today there have also been major discussions in the Senate about two laws concerning persons with disabilities. It's all because of the people with disabilities themselves, they're the ones who talked us into discussing their problems. This law is very long under investigation and has been consulted for a very long time. Last year, in 2017, there were two national conferences, 16 regional conferences, 32 local meetings. [[So what? People are protesting.]] This consultation was attended by 6.5 thousand. persons with disabilities. On 9 January, the law was passed by the government. Since then, the state and the first reading at the committee meeting, and during the second reading, you discussed this law very widely. The fact that this is a short bill, and there were 17 amendments, is the best indication of how Members who work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs take their tasks seriously, how serious they are discussing the problems of people with disabilities. [[How many of these amendments have been adopted? How much?]] I wanted to thank all those who took part in the consultation... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...but also to all those who took part in the discussions. These discussions were substantive, these discussions were concrete, these discussions were indeed about the best solutions for people with disabilities. You spoke a lot today about the current situation. Let me remind you that the president met with protesting disabled people and their guardians, the Prime Minister met... [[But what was the result?]] [[Voice from the hall: But so what?]] ...we met many times with Minister Rafalska. We do not refuse to discuss the problems of people with disabilities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: And where...]] Screaming instead of talking doesn't solve things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u453	Minister, don't argue with the O.R. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Screaming hinders the resolution of cases, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You are screaming very loudly, it is not appropriate for a Member of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Minister, please conclude, not discuss with the room. [[You're squatters.]] [[But speaking such nonsense is awful.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2292, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For -435, no one was against, two people abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the government draft law on supporting new investments. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2483-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u454	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development today, amendments made at second reading in the Sejm to the Act on the promotion of new investments were examined. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that you adopt amendments 1 and reject amendments 2, 3, 4 and 5. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u455	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2483. The Commission also presents amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose that the exemption provided for in this provision should cover the location of investments in areas with undeveloped fossils. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 388, against - 40, stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 2 is pointless. Amendments 3 to Articles 4 and 5 adding Article. 13a applicants propose e.g. identification of the public aid granted to the trader in the form of tax exemptions. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u456	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this law was to support small and medium-sized enterprises, Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, such support that they wanted to invest. And what did it turn out to be? The entries contained in those implementing regulations do not guarantee this. There is great dissatisfaction among small and medium-sized enterprises. A written protest was made by the trade federation. Ladies and gentlemen! We propose to move the rules on support for small and medium-sized enterprises from the implementing regulation directly to the law and significantly strengthen them. Reason: ladies and gentlemen, the economy is ending. Deconcture signs are already present throughout Europe and in the Polish economy. We eat the fruits of economic growth. This bill was intended to stimulate investment in Poland. Giants like the BMW are retreating from Poland. I appeal to the government: let's give it a chance [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u457	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 202, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 13. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u458	I have a question about the amendment in the context of the entire bill. What is the actual purpose of this bill? Let us be clear that the purpose of this law is to establish state governors and assign them to the regions to regulate investment support in the form of tax reliefs, of course, after being considered and after pointing out from Warsaw. These governors, i.e. Today's managers of special economic zones will be behind the back of regional self-governments steering investment policy in isolation from economic cohesion, in isolation from territorial cohesion. And how detached it is, you can see in the draft regulation. You have shredded regions, some along, across and across, just like my Wielkopolska, where behind the back of the Marshal about investments will be decided by four governors from the zones: Słubicko-Kostrzyńska, polska, Wałbrzych and Łódź. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the extinction of local governments, which is what you like best. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u459	The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u460	All strings in the hands of the first secretary in Warsaw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u461	...Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Managers of a special economic zone force this law to sign a compulsory contract for the provision of promotion, advisory or training services. So, on the one hand, Poland is to be a special economic zone for innovative companies, but on the other hand, this innovative company has to sign a contract for promotional, advisory and all the other services it does not really need, because these services already have. Why would you think that? 'Cause it's really a tax, a hidden forced tax. If this service were voluntary, then we could say that it is not a tax, and the results of this service will not be accounted for anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u463	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 199, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, she put herself to the question of Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u464	High Izbo! This bill is good targets, bad tools and bad solutions. The way in which this law is dealt with really taunts the entire legislative practice that has been applied since I was in the Sejm. Entrepreneurs were given 7 days to consult such important provisions and implementing regulations. No substantive answers at committee meetings to a number of relevant questions. Competent dualism and entry into the competence of the regional government. For these reasons, the Civic Platform Club will not vote in favour of this law and is preparing its amendment. Soon we will submit the project to the marshal's staff. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u465	The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, Prime Minister! Every bat has two ends. On the one hand, we offer tax exemptions, but on the other hand we complicate the tax system and introduce official discretion. If, Prime Minister, you ask the owner of Mercedes if you want help from the Polish government and a tax exemption of PLN 30 million, you will probably hear: Me, me! Hilfe! And if you ask the owner of the grocery store if you want government help, do you know what you're gonna hear? So that the government would finally leave her alone, simplify her tax laws and let her work, run a business. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u467	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill was actually processed under quite strange circumstances. I will not hide that, after the ban on entering the Sejm, not only do you divide your children into those invited by the opposition Members, and those invited by the Members of Law and Justice, not only do you not allow the social side or non-governmental organisations to participate in committee meetings, but you have gone so far that department heads are in trouble with entering the committee meeting. You've just made such a mess in the Sejm that no one knows if they can come in or not. And under these conditions, we are to work on creating a good law. A question for the Minister. Minister, the amendment was rejected by which certain provisions of the regulation were transferred to the law. Will you give us a promise that you will consider introducing certain facilities for small and medium-sized enterprises so that the parameters for obtaining these discounts are beneficial to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u469	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2483, along with the amendment, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 274, against - 133, the 28. The Sejm passed a law on supporting new investments. We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws (Prints No 2455 and 2529). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has tabled 39 amendments to the Payment Services Act, all of which are technical and legislative. They were grouped and voted on. The Commission has decided to accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u471	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 8, 10 to 18, 20 to 23, 26, 29 to 36, 38 and 39. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1st to 8th, from 10th to 18th, from 20th to 23rd, 26th, from 29th to 36, 38th and 39th, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Nobody voted for them against - 433, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 9, 19, 24, 25 and 27. The Senate has notified amendments to the provisions of the Payment Services Act. In the 9th amendment to the article. 15a The Senate proposes that a new mouth be given. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. No one was in favour, 433 Members voted against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 61, 61b, 64, 117a and 117b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 1 Member voted against - 427, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 117a, 117b, 117d, 117f, 117g, 117h, 117j, 117r, 117s, add art. 117ja and deletion of Article 117n. Amendments 25 and 27 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 24th, 25th and 27th would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was in favour, 432 were against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 28th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 11b. 4 Financial Market Surveillance Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. For - 1 Member, against - 428, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 21. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. No one was against, there were 427 Members, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 49 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the monitoring of road freight transport and certain other laws (prints No 2456 and 2498). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Bogdan!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u472	High Seym! We're proposing that all of them... We vote against rejection, i.e. the Senate's amendments. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: And I understand that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u473	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Act on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road. In the first amendment to Article. Point 2 (9) of the Senate proposes to delete the word "" respectively." Amendments 3, 6 to 8 and 11 to 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments of Senate 1, 3, from 6 to 8 and from 11 to 17 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. No one was against - 429, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 4 (2) of the Senate proposes an amendment to point 2. ea. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. No one was against - 426 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 3. We've already considered the Senate. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 10th Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment of the Senate would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. No one was in favour, no one abstained, against 425 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was in favour, no one abstained, 433 Members voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We've already considered Senate Six, Seven and Eight amendments. Amendments 9 and 10. The Senate reported it to the article. The 6th Pharmaceutical Law Act. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 37aw. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th Senate amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was against - 431 Members, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 37aza add paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 50 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws (prints Nos 2457 and 2464). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo, Wiciu!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u474	Mr. Marshal... Dominic, Dominic! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technology after considering... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Dominic! ...the resolution of the Senate recommends that the High House adopt all the amendments contained in the printing... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Are they laughing at you?]] ...in the Senate resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u475	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Telecommunication Law The Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. There was one Member, no one abstained, against - 431. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 94th Postal Law Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. No one was against - 429, but 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 6th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. There was one Member against - 428 and he abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes a legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. No one was against - 427, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The 13th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was in favour, no one held back, and 432 Members were against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 15th Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. No one was in favor, no one held back, everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The 16th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was in favour, against 431, with one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Telecommunications Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws (prints Nos 2536 and 2540). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: No applause?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u476	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws, respectively, in print Nos 2536 and 2540. The Senate accepted 14 amendments. The Health Committee recommends that all amendments be adopted. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u477	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue. In the first amendment to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 10a-10c. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. For - 23, against - 409, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 of the Senate proposes a clarification amendment. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 10 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. No one was in favour, 1 member abstained, against -432. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 24b. 1 and 2 The Senate proposes changes to the State Medical Rescue Command System. Amendments 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 430 Members were against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, in print No 2460 and 2476. Six amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u479	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in the print report No 2476. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. The 25th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator propose, inter alia, that the parliamentary or senator's salary be equivalent to 2.4 times the median, central value, remuneration in the national economy in the previous calendar year. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 2, 3, 4 and 6 futile. With a question from Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With your populist play, you're trying to distract the public from the scandals you've created. You went to the elections with the slogans of humility and honesty. What did you do? You turned it into greed, arrogance, and a shoe. [[Applause]] [[Dad's gonna do it.]] It was your ministers who took these awards, called the second salaries, and now you want to punish us, Members of the opposition. But they belonged to you. You want it to be modest? Then stop crashing in government limousines, flying military planes home, or giving money to Rydzyk. You can lower our wages to zero, but we'll still account for you. We will work for free for Poles so that this milking change will finally stop. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo! It's free!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u481	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u482	Thank you, Marshal. To the representative Mrs Szydleko, I have the following question: does this law also mean a fair, solidarity-based reduction in the remuneration of the Marshal, the Vice-Marshals, the members of the Sejm Bureau? [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]] I ask you to answer that question, because it is good to know if we have an additional caste of gentlemen in this Seym. The answer to this question will allow us, the club of PSL - the European Union of Democrats, to take a final vote. And I would expect your marshal to declare, Mr. Marshal, that if this is not the case, if the bill does not provide for this, which I suspect, you will resign with your colleagues from the Sejm's Bureau 20%. Your paycheck. [[Applause]] [[Hilfe!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u483	Member Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. [[I can't hear you.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please a little louder.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bad argument to judge Members' work through society. Bad, but for you, because when you propose a reduction in Members' salaries, you admit that you are acting badly for Poland. You admit you're entitled to a reduction in pay. [[Applause]] What's more, it should be bigger. 20% It's nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to propose in our amendment that the amount of the parliamentary salary depends on the welfare of Poland. If Poles are okay, Members should earn enough too. You cannot understand this because even today you have proposed a price increase for Poles in the form of the Biocomponents Act. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u485	Member of Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u486	Ladies and gentlemen! We have been used to lower wages actually since the beginning of our term of office, and I have some bad news for you: the penalties you will be able to impose on us will be lower. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's one thing. Secondly, today you wrote me Helena Dybel, who said... Don't laugh because it's important. [[Personal data.]] Don't bother, and don't yell. ...who wrote me... [[Your pupils are...]] ...that he has a deadline at the gastroenterology clinic... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...endocrinology and internal diseases on the Shaser for 2019. [[Voice from the hall: The Shaser.]] To the Shasers. If it was supposed to be more modest, why aren't you waiting in line, why isn't your president waiting in line? Why are ordinary Poles waiting... [[Voice from the room: What kind of research have you been doing?]] ...in line, and the ordinary president in line isn't waiting? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] You lower our wages, you increase your wages. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u487	We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u488	That's what we're going to talk about in the coming months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u489	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 261 Members voted. For - 41, against - 218, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 2. to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 applicants propose that payment in a given calendar year be equal to three times the average remuneration in the national economy in the previous calendar year. In the 4th amendment, which includes the addition of an article. 1a in the draft amending act, applicants propose that until the end of the current term of office of the Sejm and the Senate the payment should be 0 PLN. Amendment 6 is combined with these amendments. [[Louder, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Marshal, we can't hear you.]] We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 3. The question was raised by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern. [[Voice from the room: Ooh... fat, thick.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u490	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When it passes the moment of drunkenness with bonuses, there comes a moral hangover and such a desire to reduce Members' salaries by 20%. But unfortunately, it's not enough to cover the bonus scandal. It's not enough to powder the greed of this power somehow. That is why I am asking you to reduce Members' salaries to zero - yes, ladies and gentlemen, to zero... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...only because you no longer have the right to take from the state budget or the gold. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The president said to be modest. So I say, "I'm checking." [[Applause]] Vote in favour of this amendment, otherwise you will confirm that you are following the principle that Urban has set up, which is that the government is feeding itself. So I'm saying I'm checking. You're welcome. I want you to be modest. Was it yours? What did the president say? Don't you? So I'm gonna say zero for [[♪ The bell ♪]] greed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u491	The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Law and Justice! I know you will have a problem with the swords today with the adoption of the whole project, so I have a proposal for you. Let's do this - this is a proposal related to the consequence - I will support your project in its entirety if you support the amendment on cutting the salary to 0 PLN. That's a great solution. There were years when I worked full-time with an IT company, studied and acted socially, and I was president of the KoLiber Association. [[But when you worked, did you have a salary?]] I would really like to go back to a well-paid IT consulting profession. I wish you that, too. I know that some of you may have a problem, because apart from public administration and State Treasury companies, after a dozen years of sitting in Parliament with work, there may be a problem, but we'll manage. [[Applause]] Please support this amendment. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u493	The question is asked by Mr Michał Kaminski, PSL. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! Because it's supposed to be more modest, I'm wearing more modest clothes today. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have a question for you, Marshal. I'm repeating it. Will you find the courage to say today that you and the Sejm Bureau will also reduce your salary by 20%? [[Voice from the room: It was already there.]] I ask because one of the Vice-Marshals of Law and Justice, not this House, laughs at journalists, saying: ha, ha, ha, but the Sejm and Senate Bureau do not lower the salary. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] So I'd really ask you to have the courage to tell me if you'd lower your salary, too, or if you'd lower your salary. I am in favour of lowering the Members' salary to zero, [[Applause]] 'Cause I went to politics, which I proved, not for money... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, when for your... When I resigned from the mandate of the MEP to work for President Lech Kaczyński, I proved that I did not go into politics for money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u495	We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u496	Prove it. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u497	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 4 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 294 Members voted. For - 47, against - 232, abstained - 15. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 applicants propose that the salary be equal to the average salary The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15, will ask the question. Does it or doesn't it? [[Is it possible to switch in this situation if another friend from the club...]] Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u498	My dear Mr. Marshal! Highly Dear High Izbo! I only have one short, big request for you. Don't kid people that you're making these savings cuts. Don't cheat. This is what the honourable marshal said, a little public, what you are doing right now, because if you really wanted not to reduce, but save money, you would have long accepted the Kukiz15 project to reduce the tax-free amount of Members to the level of the citizens' tax-free amount. Don't lie to me, please. Of course, I will vote in favour of a reduction. I have something to hold on to, and I can afford it, but I wish the county Members to starve to death. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u499	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u500	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The amendment, authored by the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, speaks very clearly about this in order to link the parliamentary allowance with the average national salary. If the material situation of Poles deteriorates, the parliamentary allowance decreases and, if it improves, the parliamentary allowance improves as well. We think that such a mechanism is a much better solution than arbitrary proposal of 20%. But I would like to ask: Are you ready to support this amendment, very logical, very fair? At the same time, I repeat the question to Mrs Szydleko: Does the proposed law lower the salaries of the members of the Sejm Bureau? [[Answer me.]] And once again, I appeal to Marshal Terletsky to answer whether he intends to lower his salary - not for the public, but for the real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal's about 20%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u501	You guys are really tired of this. [[Oh, Mr. Marshal, what's the truth?]] The question is asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To see if we're speaking dishonestly, or are you... [[Voice from the room: Apologize for the Blade.]] ...I have a proposal for Mr Zembaczyński and other giants who have just spoken here: immediately after this meeting, you will make a statement to the secretary of the Marshal of the Sejm that you are relinquishing your salaries, which will be reduced. [[But so are you.]] Then we'll see, and then we'll say, "I'm checking." [[Applause]] As for what Mr Nitras has just said, you have begun to learn a new profession, Mr Nitras. [[That's the point?]] You better start learning how to clean up. There's no broom you can clean up on the Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u503	Mr President, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u504	Try to do it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're insulting the envoy.]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is really a scandal.]] [[Learn how to clean.]] [[At least 30 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u505	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u506	Dear Marshal, I would like to inform the Member who spoke before me that this amendment is a two-member amendment. First of all, it's about taking the money away from you for the rest of your term, because even if you don't get paid, it won't compensate for those awards. [[Would you make a statement like that?]] The second member assumes that, from the future term of office - this normal term - the Sejm's remuneration will be three times the average wage in the economy... [[Will you make a statement like that?]] ...to make the salaries of Members dependent on how the Poles are doing. This is an honest way. It must be said that this is a responsible approach to you. Unfortunately, Members who hold power and at the same time start to earn less quickly and decide how to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u507	Mr President, it was supposed to be 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u508	...public money will be redistributed, more prone to corruption. It's dangerous. There is one country, Italy, where there was a similar phenomenon, and there it was decided that more should be paid to politicians because they are being corrupted. Unfortunately, it is not us, the opposition, who share public money, but you, and unfortunately it will come to you with various immoral proposals. So I repeat, no money for this insubordination. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But are you going to make a statement or not? You'll fold it?]] [[Pancakes once!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u509	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 277 Members voted. For-- 21, against-- 237, holding off on 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u510	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If you were to present today a comprehensive proposal on the remuneration of ministers and high officials, it would probably be something to talk about. In the meantime, your proposal is in fact an escape from the image flap by exposing pathological solutions, already known as direct subsidies for dudes. You didn't need opposition to this terrible system to create, so we're not gonna put our hands on this vote on the Mon project. The penalty for prizes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u511	Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state can't be petty. All it takes is the government, the High Sejm, the grandfather. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal said this bill is made public. All your governments are public... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and Mr. Marshal had the courage to admit it. Very brave, Mr. Marshal. Let me remind you: the bonuses of the ministers themselves in the PiS government only in 2017 amounted to PLN 2 million. In the President's Office close to - 3 million PLN. But it's nothing compared to the pissants on the ground. Paweł Śliwa, councilman of PiS from Małopolska - PLN 1 million. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Krzysztof Skóra, councilman from Lower Silesia - 1,3 million PLN. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! It was supposed to be cheaper.]] Do you know how much Jarosław Kaczyński's driver earns? After this bill, he's gonna make twice as much money as you. Twice as much. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u513	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We offered to addict politicians' salaries... [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...from the standard of living of citizens. You rejected that amendment. We have proposed to equalise the tax-free amount for politicians and citizens, so that anyone who makes $2.5,000. PLN or less, he did not pay tax at all. You rejected it. Why? Because you do not want to improve the standard of life of Poles. What do you really want? You want to feed. You have ministries, Treasury companies, foundations, sontekuras. You guys are gonna eat and you're gonna eat 20%. It won't make any difference to you. You're still appealing to the public. President Kaczyński said vox populi, vox Dei. So the question is, why haven't you already eliminated the party subsidies that give you a few dozen million dollars a year? Everyone here, in the O.R., everybody. Why didn't you take it out? People want this change, so be consistent and move on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u515	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u516	Mr. Marshal! You said your salary hurts us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u517	He's tired, he's tired.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u518	I'll tell you, I remember you announcing this bill here in the main lobby. You said Members would make less money. You didn't tell us that you weren't involved, which is why we're surprised. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'll tell you one thing: you're the leader of this crew, you're the head of the club. I'll tell you, you're a leader! He lowered people, he left them, he left them to himself and Mrs. Mazurek. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And the rest, no. But seriously. I'm talking to you. It's for you and you. You vote today in favour of lowering Members' salaries. Next week, you will vote to lower the salaries of local government officials. And when the hell are you gonna bring it down? [[Applause]] Because you're the ones who took the prizes. Not them, not us and the non-government. Shame on you. Shame on you. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u519	The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm surprised you guys turned down the project to reduce it to zero zloty. Really. I started acting socially, politically at the age of 16... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...now I have twice as much and throughout this period, until I took up my parliamentary function, what I earned, I taught for social activities, political activities. That's what we can do today. If you want to do this, you should have just reduced it to zero. Let's go to work, work after hours spent in the Seym. Why not? Why not do it? [[What were you living on?]] That's not what's important, ladies and gentlemen. Here the most important question is the question, which is the question at all about the whole legislative process and the seriousness of this House. That's a question for the marshal. Mr. Marshal! I'm addicted to whether to vote or not, depending on your answer. Is it true that you said the bill was public? Because if so, you make Polish parliamentarianism ridiculous. [[Applause]] [[He said, he said.]] [[Aren't you ashamed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u521	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.2476 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 247 Members voted. For - 240, against - 2 stopped 5. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. [[Why aren't you happy?]] We return to the consideration of item 44 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government draft law on collective management of copyrights and related rights. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2491-A. We proceed to the third reading. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask Elizabeth Raven to present an additional report to the committee. [[It was Beata who made this fate.]] Member, please. [[Voice from the hall: With this money, I don't want to go.]] You're tired of this, aren't you? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[It hurts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit an additional report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights. 16 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the project. Amendment 2 was withdrawn by the applicants. The Commission has welcomed eight amendments, i.e. Amendments 3, 4, 6, 10 and 12 and amendments 14 to 16. It also recommends rejecting seven amendments: 1 and 13. and five amendments voted jointly, i.e. Five, seven, eight, nine and eleven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u523	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2491. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 21 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that Members of this House are in excellent spirits today. Almost standing ovation for their Members from the Parliamentary Speaker. I suggest: next time do another...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u525	Let's get to the point, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u526	...Mexican wave. It's really gonna be a good idea. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I have only one request in connection with this point: for you to pay copyright for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u527	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question I'm asking with some embarrassment. Namely, there is a group of Members who work socially, does not receive wages, and we know that a reduction in wages was a punishment. Then how will those Members to whom I belong be punished? [[To the hierarch!]] I'm afraid it's gonna be physical punishment. If so, who will measure them? Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u529	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 229, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. 23 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For -426, against -3, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 49. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For -413, 4 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose that the committee be composed of 30 arbitrators. Amendments 6 to 8 and 10 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4, 6 to 8, 10 and 13, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 171, against - 259, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose that the committee be composed of 20 arbitrators. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 290, against - 138, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 6 to 8 have already been examined. In the 9th amendment to the article. 69 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 426, no one was against, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment has already been examined. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 (2) of the applicant proposes to amend the scope of the reference referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -418, against -3, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 75 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 189, against - 227, halted 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 13th amendment was considered. In the 14th amendment to the article. 80 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -433, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 91 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 428, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u530	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, by rejecting the set of amendments that extended the membership of the Committee on Copyright by 10 representatives of academic law departments, you have actually demonstrated either the fear of these lawyers, or the complete lack of trust, but I do not know whether to lawyers or to your minister of higher education, or perhaps to your minister of justice, because it is so irrational... You might as well shoot each other in the foot. And that was my first question. The second is: Who will apologize to the creators who kissed the doorknob on May 8 and could not get into the closed and fenced Sejm wires, even though they were invited to the committee meeting? The law deals with their most vital interests. You guys can lower your salary to zero, actually, at the moment you're talking about yours, [[♪ The bell ♪]] About your constituents... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u531	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2491, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 429, against - 2, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law on collective management of copyright and related rights. We would like to return to the discussion of item 53 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government's draft law on Central Communication Port. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2535-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today there was a second reading of the government bill - a very important law - about the Central Communication Port. This law will truly be a great praise to the rule of law and justice after it has been implemented. This law radically changes the communication system of the Polish state. The whole of Europe is already interested in this law. I think we are taking a very important and good step today to achieve a good change in Poland. Amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. The two amendments of the Civic Platform were not good and were rejected. The other amendments to the Law and Justice were good and I propose to vote for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Have you been drinking?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u533	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2535. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 6th draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Amendments 1 and 2 are very important in spite of what Mr President said just now. They relate to the article. 6 and 7, by virtue of which a government representative in the Ministry of Investment takes over the constitutional competence of the Minister of Infrastructure. I ask that these amendments be supported in order to restore the constitutional model of the infrastructure department. And the question to Minister Adamczyk: Minister, does this mean that you have abdicated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u535	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 194, against - 229, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. Paragraph 7 1 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Whether the 2nd amendment is accepted, one thing we can be sure of and we can be calm about it - this airport will never rise anyway. You don't have the money for that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I would like to make this declaration, especially to the inhabitants of the Baranów commune. Vox populi, vox Dei, Mr Rozonec, but your vox populi is very selective. You're only listening to this vox populi, which is in line with your expectations. When the inhabitants of the community of the Aries oppose - they are treated with all the arrogance and boot that is in you - then you do not listen to them. I declare: Dear people of the Baran community, we will be with you, we will support you, we will help you. You can be sure that this airport, which is like Huta Katowice - because just like Gierek had Huta Katowice, so Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister, will have his airport... It doesn't make sense, pure propaganda. It doesn't make sense, pure propaganda. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u537	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. In -191, against - 234, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete the reference contained in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 250, against - 175, with a hold of 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the draft law of the applicant proposes to amend the wording of that provision of introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 251, against - 173, with a hold of 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 6 of the draft law propose, inter alia, that the public consultation notice be held for a period of 14 days on the subject page of the Public Information Bulletin and at its premises. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 246, against - 169, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 5 of the draft law propose that, among other things, applicants should The municipality council was repealing the local spatial planning plan for the area located on the lines delimiting the area of the investment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 247, against - 175, holding off on 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. add point 4a. Amendment 8 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 244, against - 173, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Rozonec! There is no money, and even if this amendment passes, it will not make the money appear. But we know very well what this project is for. You will appoint special companies to build roads, to build railway lines... [[Voice from the room: You're the specialists.]] ...the main specialist for the construction of the airport and you will be bringing hundreds of millions of zlotys to these companies. [[It's for prizes.]] You'll call them your well-deserved activists... [[Talk to Grad.]] ...who will charge very high salaries. But the bad news, Mr Rozonec, is that... [[Voice from the room: Nuclear power plant.]] You don't have any money for a nuclear power plant, you don't even have money for an energy block in Ostrołęka. What are we talking about? Where are you gonna get those billions? [[Applause]] The bad news, sir, is that we will ask you where the money went, where every dollar went. And even worse news is, you're gonna answer these questions at the D.A.'s office. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u539	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Rzońc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u540	I think it's pretty serious. Mr President, the words must be weighed. I think what you're saying right now is at least right for the ethics committee. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I want to assure you that the construction of the Central Communication Port is, of course, an idea of Law and Justice, but the work on the Central Communication Port has been going on for many years. Mr Grabarczyk is in the Chamber, who, as a minister, has done some research so that it can be done in this rather than others... [[Voice from the room: I don't believe it.]] ...the location of the Central Communication Port. So, in part, ladies and gentlemen, we must also say... [[Come on, Charek.]] [[No.]] ...that the Minister had his part in the idea at the Central Communication Port. And saying today that someone's going to the D.A.'s office... Some of you had friends who were presidents, and companies were gone and took money. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u541	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 245, against - 173, the 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[You should have done your own research.]] In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the draft law, the applicants propose that the amounts mentioned in that provision be spent on the service of the proxy. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Marshal, dear...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u542	Mr. Marshal! This is the penultimate amendment... [[Last one.]] [[Last one.]] ...and the second-to-last vote, and you're about to split up for a whole month. As these votes began, there was common joy. It seemed like when the cat was gone, the mice were scouting. One vote, you've reduced your salary by 20%. So?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u543	Mr President, we are talking about Amendment 10. [[But let me tell you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u544	The sad faces, the minor faces, but I'd like to remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u545	Mr President, this is Amendment 10. Please be kind to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u546	...that there are people here who live for 900 PLN and protest all the time, fighting for a decent life... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] ...for your own life, for your own life, for your own life. You have to leave here today with remorse, because you haven't met their expectations, and they will continue to protest...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u547	Mr President, as you do not respond to my reminders, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u548	...and we are committed to solidarity with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u549	...I'm taking your vote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And you'll take the Marshal's salary, too?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You should have been punished right away.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 243, against - 176, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the first question, short, to the Minister What: Are you sure you're behind the closure of the airport Warsaw-Okęcie? That's the first question. [[Applause]] And now I have some other questions for the Minister. It is really a shame to implement a law that concerns the largest developmental investment worth PLN 35 billion in 20 hours on the basis of a single concept that was prepared under the rule of Minister Grabarczyk. You don't have a feasibility study, you don't have anything, you don't have a concept of remodeling a national road network, you don't have a concept of remodeling a railway road. What are you letting us into with one bill without money? Because today we were debating what the European budget for Poland would be like. And it's gonna be tragic. There will be a higher contribution and less money for development. This is the effect of the PiS government. And that effect will also be with the airport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u551	Mr Michał Kaminski, PSL Club. There's no envoy? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur: Is it true that the liquidation of Okęcie airport means that 2.5 million inhabitants of the Warsaw agglomeration are sentenced to an incomparably higher cost of reaching the airport... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] ...means a blow to the inhabitants of Warsaw and the inhabitants of the Warsaw agglomeration? What's your attitude towards this? But I also ask the question: Is it true that just as in 2 days you gave Czartoryski the box of Queen Bona for PLN 0.5 billion, if it is found, so today you are eliminating Okęcie because Branicki asked for it to be recovered... [[You're repeating yourself.]] ...grounds in Okęc and obtain PLN 275 million from the Polish state? Is your policy of relinquishing magnateria... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...at the expense of those whom Mr. Gliński called serfs, do you want to destroy the lives of the inhabitants of Warsaw? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u553	The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think you've been watching too much PowerPoint, because you're planning an airport in an open field where, as I read, more planes are supposed to land than in London and Beijing. Well, bravo, if that's your plan... You have fantastic planners with the Prime Minister. And of course the biggest scandal: you want to take Warsaw airport in Okęc. You want to take out thousands of people's jobs. [[Voice from the room: transfer to Berlin.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] You want to throw away the money that was spent on investments that even led the roads to this airport. So? And we have Suski's first success because they want to send us all to Radom first, and once we stop going to Radom... [[Come on in.]] ...then we'll be driving in an honest field where there'll be thousands of places, thousands of sonners for you, for the politicians of the PiS who lost some of their wages today. Fantastic plans. I'm sure the Warsawers will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u555	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: What, say something.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: What, what...]] Mr Grzegorz Długi. There's no envoy? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u556	I'll be happy to share with you sometime, no problem. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of our infrastructure is necessary and necessary for our future. You need brave decisions for that. This decision is undoubtedly courageous and, in principle, we will not criticize it, but we are criticizing the way that this courage is focused on creating a ministry without a constitutional basis. We start with building civil servants, starting with the fact that we're creating a powerful company that means it's a ministry. We make civil servants, not engineers. Therefore, my question is: How do you plan to build a powerful airport without leaving your desk? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u557	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sad to say, at first, that the opposition's questions... [[Voice from the room: with Zelek!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... Question of the opposition, High Izbo, it is the bottom and mule, it is a swamp and incompetence. I would like to ask, first of all, Minister Wild, who is a representative of the government established by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, for an answer to the question and for a reminder of the costs of multi-criterial feasibility studies of high-speed railways and the Central Communication Port which the Polish state has incurred. Let me just remind you that, as Minister of Transport in 2007, I introduced this into the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and Environment. [[Voice from the hall: How many roads have you built?]] This study was later carried out during the rule of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] None of the politicians have determined the location of this airport, [[♪ The bell ♪]] only expert teams and companies that implemented this for the benefit of the Polish state...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u559	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u560	The question is... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the joy in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u561	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2535, along with the amendments, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 235, against - 190, with a hold of 4. The Sejm passed the Central Communication Port Act. Three minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 34 hrs. 23 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 62nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. As Mr Simon Giżyński's first request, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To establish Modern Richard Petru, he needed two props: himself and mirrors. Catherine Lubnauer took everything from Richard Petru: a chair and a mirror. In the Lubnauer chair she sat down, the mirror - she broke. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u563	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 4 May in the Catholic Church we celebrated the liturgical memory of Florian, martyr and Catholic saint. Saint Florian has been a patron of fire competitions for many years: firefighters, steel workers, cokers and firemen, but he is mostly known as a patron of firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids from volunteer firefighters and professional firefighters from the State Fire Department. The 4th of May was established as a firefighter's holiday, on this day we have been formally celebrating the Firefighter's Day since 2002. High Izbo! Each of us is aware of the great effort and sacrifice with which firefighters each day with great commitment save the health, life and possessions of Poles. They are always the first on the scene of road accidents, they help in many situations the danger for residents of villages and cities in Poland. They are often at risk of health and life, helping those at risk in the face of many elements, not just fire. Dear Firemen! On the day of your holiday, I thank you for your service to the people of the Chojnice Land, so terribly experienced on the memorable August night 2017. It was you who were the first at the air element control station to help save the endangered inhabitants of the Chojnice district, their possessions, their agricultural fetuses, you protected the houses and the farm buildings. You risked your own health and life by removing fallen trees on covered roads, paving the way for ambulances carrying help from hurricane victims. It was the firefighters who later supported by the military who irritated Brdo in the Rytl upstairs by broken trees. It's your credit that the Mylof's firewall hasn't been interrupted. Volunteers from the communes of Chojnice, Brusy, Czersk and Konarzyna have been very valiant in helping their colleagues from the units of the State Fire Service from all over Poland, who have eliminated the effects of the storm. Thank you all for your commitment to helping the people of the Chojnice District, which was your special act in August. a long day's work after the hurricane arrives. There are no words that express the gratitude of the locals who were helped by the firefighters. May my humble thanks from the speaker of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland be an expression of this gratitude of the inhabitants experienced by the August hurricane. May your patron saint. Florian asks you all favors, and may he be a signpost and a model of service to others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u565	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 and 17 April this year, at the invitation of Evgeni Żowtis, Director of the Kazakh Office for Foreign Affairs. Human rights and the rule of law, and Bakhytzhan Toregozhina, president of a human rights organisation in Kazakhstan Ar Rukh Hak, took part in a human rights monitoring mission in Kazakhstan. Antonio Stango, President of the Italian Federation of Human Rights, participated with me in this mission. I went on a mission with your Marshal's permission. The subject of our interest was the prisoners being held in custody or being punished for reasons - according to all the information we have obtained from human rights activists - political. The authorities of Kazakhstan first provided us with a meeting with the authorities, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, the Deputy Prosecutor General and the Chief Investigator of the Anti-corruption Office and other judicial officials in Kazakhstan. They presented the judicial reforms that are taking place in Kazakhstan, also presented the current state - that prisoners are generally less in Kazakhstan, presented new mechanisms for tracking cases of suspicion of torture and presented their point of view as regards the people we were interested in. The Kazakhstan authorities have also enabled us to meet with prisoners. In addition, we met with prisoners' families, human rights activists and lawyers of these prisoners. A particularly dramatic course had a meeting in Alma Ata prison, in custody with three prisoners. In addition to Antonio Stanga, me and the representatives of the judicial authorities I mentioned, the meeting was attended by representatives from Spain and Romania invited by the Kazakh authorities as well as two representatives from Kazakhstan. There we listened to Iskander Jerimbet, who had been in custody for six months, a 40-year-old businessman, the owner and head of an airline service company, who also had another production facility that was arrested and tried to charge him with contacts, relationships, cooperation with Kazakhstan's pursuit of Muchtar Ablazov, an important businessman who fled Kazakhstan a few years ago. Ablazov is being chased by Interpol. He was chased for Kazakhstan. But Interpol withdrew from it, and France, which stopped it, withdrew from giving it to the Kazakh authorities because it considered that the Kazakh authorities were seeking it for purely political reasons and that it would not be able to have a fair trial in Kazakhstan. However, the Kazakh authorities are somehow trying to formulate new accusations regarding Abelazov. And it turns out that that's what Jerimbet's arrest was about, as his testimony suggests. First, they try to prove his relationship with Ablazov, but when it turned out that his business had nothing to do with the business of Ablazov, because he was operating in another bank, there were no personal contacts except for one contact 10 years ago, he was charged with another charge in March this year. Namely, it is such a charge that his company provided services to state-owned enterprises at an excessive price. About each service it was written that its price was increased by 5 Which is why it's a loss like that and a loss like that. It is also a completely far-fetched matter. However, what is particularly unpleasant here is that Jerimbet was tortured. He was tortured by prisoners. He was held together with prisoners already convicted, which is in general contrary to international conventions. Also with the Kazakh legislation itself, it is contrary to keeping the prisoner arrested with the convicts. What was it about the authorities of Kazakhstan who most likely ordered these tortures from the investigators? They made it clear. They wanted Jerimbetov to encourage, force his sister, who is in Belgium, convince her to return to Kazakhstan and give testimony incriminating Abelazov because she once cooperated with Abelazov. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there a limited time?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u567	Yeah, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u568	Madam, I'm asking for three more minutes, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u569	Mr... [[We're all waiting.]] Cut it short, really. It's always been five minutes. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u570	Dramatic. Special tortures were applied, especially the day when Jerimbet's parents had a press conference and publicly defended it. Also dramatic were the statements of others arrested: Almata Zumagulov, Kanzebeka Aszibewa. Both are activists of the Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan, at least one of them, supporting this movement. This movement has recently been banned and declared an extremist movement. It's the only opposition organization that acted semi-legally. She dealt with land trafficking, retirement age, various social issues, but she was accused of spreading jihad and terrorism. By organized provocation in the room where the cameras were, where there were three people...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u571	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like you to leave now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u572	In this case, these three arrested, including the fourth 14-year sentence in prison, Jakishev, also kept in a psychiatric hospital Ardak Ashim, a blogger appearing on a blog with critical comments on government policy, we have prepared a comprehensive report in which we demand release from jail, conduct a fair investigation into torture, stop keeping in a psychiatric hospital. This report will, of course, be presented to the Marshal of the Sejm, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Kazakh authorities, next week will be a presentation in the European Parliament. The first positive effect of this is that the psychiatric blogger Ardak Ashim was released. We hope that the report will also contribute to the fact that others arrested for political reasons will be able to look forward to a fair trial or be released and applied to them...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u573	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u574	...other preventive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u575	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to remind everyone that the announcement is five minutes and always has been so. Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u576	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The building of independence is a time when we look back and look back at our history. When in May we recall the merits of the Members of the Grand Sejm and look with appreciation at the Constitution on 3 May, it is worth mentioning another earlier event, and it is the bar confederation, called the first national break in defence of the country and the faith which guarantees the unity of the nation. Would it be a constitution if it weren't for bar confederates? Their attitudes and tragic history are similar to many songs. They have traitors, such as Happy Potocki, or enemies - Tsaryca Katarzyna. There are also beautiful figures of patriots who proudly sang: "I will never be with kings in the Alyans; we will never bend our neck before the power; for in Christ we are in the chiefs--Mary's servants!." This song could be sung by Antoni Józef Madaliński, a bar confederate fighting in the First Wielkopolska National Cavalry Brigade, a later envoy at the Grand Sejm. He is a man of many merits for his homeland. After all, he was one of the commanders, in the rank of general, Kościuszko insurrection. And it came from an average nobility, and it was called backwards, because somehow you had to justify your betrayal. The Confederates stood up for endless values, and that is patriotism - the virtue of the love of the country. The old Polish knight draws strength from the holy faith and does not allow to blaspheme the name of Mary. 150,000. People, some say that 200,000, with gutters on their chests, stood up to defend their homeland from threatening evil from the outside and inside. A similar attempt was made by Members of the Grand Sejm to save their homeland. They began in the name of God Almighty and a year later they promised him a special votive - the Temple of Providence. The Constitution is a great work, but the words given to God were not kept and the people went wandering. Fr. Marek, the hero of Slovak drama, accuses the Confederates that despite the beautiful ideals they did not trust God to the end, so they had to look at the slaughter of their own children by the Eastern barbarians. So here we see the resemblance of these two events. In 1916 - at the halfway point of the Great War - Poles celebrated the 125th anniversary of the Constitution on 3 May in Lublin, Warsaw, Czestochowa and other cities. They wanted to show the world that there was a nation, so they prepared well. In Warsaw the ceremony began with the unveiling by the students of the plaque in honor of the Constitution on the ruins of the Chapel of Divine Providence in the botanical garden. Not yet built entirely, and already destroyed, has become a symbol of the nation's obligations to God and the unity of the nation. It seems that Antoni Józef Madaliński is a unique hero of the times of the barracks and the Grand Sejm. Liberty ideals will carry on, taking part in battles at Racławice and Szczekociny. He is a participant in the uprising from the first moments until his fall. And then there was an arrest and a prison in Magdeburg. He spent the rest of his life in the country. After he got out of prison, he bought Borowe's estate in Mazowsze. He died in 1804 and was buried in a parish church in Przybyszewo nad Pilica. Finally, a brief reflection. With us, those who buy the fate of the nation always want to be enlightened and claim the right to freedom of action. The Patriots are humiliated by insults, they suffer persecution, only the spirit of freedom is powerful in their hearts and cannot be broken - as if they were ashamed of the first. And obligations to God must be fulfilled. They are promised voluntarily in front of the nation. Honor commands us to keep this in mind, and our history teaches us that it pays off. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u577	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u578	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2018 is an extremely important time, the year of the anniversary of the century of regaining independence by Poland. In our regional historical and cultural space there are many commemorated places of struggle for a free homeland. There are numerous graves of the fallen in the struggle for independence and monuments commemorating important events and characters. The legacy of our history is the great Polish patriots, such as Fr. Kacper Kotkowski, born in 1814 in Czerwona Góra, operating in the national freedom movement in the period prior to the January Uprising and during the January Uprising 1863-1864, Karol Majewski, leader of the National Government during the January Uprising, born in 1833 in Denko, or Władysław Belina-Prażmowski, born in 1888 in Ruszkowce, participant in the fights during the period of regaining independence, commander of a group of gunmen Józef Piłsudski called the 7th Belina Uprising, who on 2 August 1914 took the task of crossing the border of Russian conquest, establishing a horse patrol and making a diagnosis in the direction of Miechów before entering these areas of the shooters - a group which was the beginning of the cavalry of the Second Republic. Referring to these figures and the places and events of the time of the Bar Confederation, the period of the Kościuszkowski Uprising, the January Uprising, the Revolution of 1905 and the years of the First World War, a group of about 40 people, representatives and sympathizers of civil society associations: the Association of Friends of the Ostrowiec Land, the Association of Friends of Denkov, the Association of Friends of Kunowska Land, the Association of Ostrower, the Association for the Development of the Ćmielowski Land and the City Centre for Culture in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, participated on 14 April 2018 in a seminar and a studio reconnaissance of historical and national science. These organisations and institutions were co-partners of this project. The coach route to the Independent was preceded by a seminar, during which historians: Jarosław Piotr Kopański, Małgorzata Kowalska and Zbigniew Wacław Pęczala presented the historical background of independence efforts with reference to local characteristics of events in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, the former town of Denkov, Kunowa, Red Mountain, Ruszkowo, Ćmielowo, Rudy Kościelna, Boria and Jeziórka. During the detour in the Aquarius on the clearing them. Col. The participants of the reconnaissance met at the insurgent bonfire. The reconnaissance ended in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie at the monument of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, after singing the national anthem together, the First Brigade March and several other patriotic songs. Members' duties made it impossible for me to participate personally in the seminary and reconnaissance. However, I am pleased that I could take this important event with a patronage and financially support its organisation. I would like to express this way my appreciation and thanks to Mr.Zbigniew Wacław Pękali, the author of the script of the seminar and the studio reconnaissance of historical and national studies, the president of the Society of Friends of the Ostrowice Land and the vice president of the PTTK Świętokrzyskie Branch. Stanisław Jeżewski in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. Without his involvement, neither this nor many other projects organized in my little homeland would have taken place. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u579	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u580	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Żywiec professional guard celebrates a beautiful anniversary in the past year. It's been 50 years since it started. This particular year is full of events to remind you of the importance of professional fire in Żywiec and initiatives supporting its activities. Not only do statistics show how hard the work is done by professional firefighters from Żywiec. For each call, they show courage and heroic attitude. This is not only about fires, but also about other cataclysms, e.g. huge floods that haunt the zywiecki district every few years. In recent years, public service firefighters from Żywiec have been summoned on average to over 2,000. shares per year. Currently, over 80 firefighters work in the unit. The district command has its structure, consisting of: the rescue and fire-fighting unit, the quartermaster-technical section, the organizational-circumstance section and the inspection and inspection section. What were the beginnings of it? The professional fire department began service for Żywiecczyn on 1 January 1968, established at the request of the then chief of the voivodship colonel Stanisław Zarzycki. During this time, there were voluntary fire guards in the city: OSP Żywiec-Miasto, OSP Żywiec-Zabłocie, OSP Żywiec-Sporysz. The commandant of the professional firefighters was the lieutenant. ct. Czesław Pruski, and the first action of professional firefighters was to remove ice congestion on the Salt River. The next district commanders were the brig. Stanisław Kuliński, brig. Andrzej Graca, and now he's a st. brig. Krzysztof Grygiel. In rescue operations and not only the involvement of professional firefighters from Żywiec is extremely clear. It should be mentioned that in 1971 the bridesmaids took part in the action of the largest fire in the history of Poland in the chemical industry centre, which took over the refinery in Czechowice-Dziedzice. 37 people died in this disaster. There were also firemen among the victims. One of the last major fire-fighting operations was the rescue of property from a few weeks ago during a fire in a chemical plant in Żywiec on the street. A carpenter's. Both professional firefighters and volunteers were fully dedicated to fire-fighting during this very dangerous event. Dear Friends! From this place I wanted to congratulate you on the 50th anniversary of the professional fire unit in Żywiec and wish that the development of the unit was still so dynamic and that its firefighters would return from action to their houses in good health. Everything that's best! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u581	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u582	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wish to share with the people of my town, Starogard Gdansk, with the inhabitants of the Oldgard district a few reflections. Since the beginning of the current term of office of the Sejm, I have been a member of the Parliamentary Group for. solving problems of residents of the Polish county-dominant region. The issues that we address at the meetings of the team are very close to me, mainly because I come from such a county-dominant Poland. The old-garden district is part of it. The farms have been treated as stepmothers for many years, not to know why important offices, customer service centres, e.g. In Energa, police stations have been decommissioned. With the unemployment of the counties, including the old-garde ones, which was ubiquitous until 2016, they began to vegetate, became a province, and that's why young people began to emigrate abroad in mass. I hope that the change in national policy priorities, including the implementation of prominently pro-family programmes, visible to the naked eye, will result in Poles voting for a good change in the forthcoming local elections and parliamentary elections, because in order for citizens to feel the benefits of government programmes, local governments must implement them efficiently. I am referring to the current implementation of the "Housing+" programme or the so-called "Rooming+" programme. Constitution for business. For the benefit of citizens, changes should be made as soon as possible, although unfortunately sometimes there are deliberate obstacles to the implementation of new projects. This is because central power is in the hands of one party, and local governments are in the hands of another party. At this point, it should be pointed out that it is highly false and false that local government should be free of politics. Politics is ubiquitous, can't be protected from it, can't run away, can't live beyond it. The most important thing is not to hinder the implementation of programmes that serve Polish families, companies, the state, regardless of their political views. Poles have the spirit of the nation. I mean the context of history, because only from this perspective can you judge precisely. As a nation in the final analysis, we have always chosen God and our homeland, despite the miserable behaviour of MEPs from the 17th century or the 18th century. Poles feel subcutaneously, even if they do not say it out loud, that this government takes care of them, and probably for the first time Poles know what public money is spent on. Today they serve Polish families, Polish citizens, Polish companies. Finally, we can say that the government faces its citizens, lives the problems of ordinary people, and the laws and programs that are established serve to improve the lives of Poles. Things aren't going the way different social groups want them to. An example is perhaps too late a project on State care for people with disabilities, although this government has done the most for this social group in recent decades. There are other shortcomings, but the physical impossibility is to fix this effectively and quickly in our country, which has been destroyed and sold over many, many years. Local elections are coming up. I would like the presidents of cities such as Starogard Gdansk to be national thinking people, pro-state thinkers. Their electoral programme should correlate with a good change programme. For about a month now Law and Justice has been implementing the project under the motto "Poland" is one. The guiding idea is to bring power closer to people by organizing meetings in the field. In April in Starogard we hosted a Member of the Sejm, Mrs Anita Czerwińska, and recently in Pelplina was Prime Minister of Government Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda. In this way, a bond is built, which is the basis of a strong state. I believe that there is no contradiction between local self-government and statehood. I strongly encourage you to attend such meetings. Finally, I thank all the Pomerania firefighters for inviting me to the Firefighter's Day. I would like to thank the commander of the Regional State Fire Service, Mr Tomasz Komoszyński. I would like to thank the district commander of the State Fire Service in Starogard Gdańsk, Mr Dariusz Śmiechowski. Thank you to all the commanders of the volunteer fire department. On the occasion of the recently celebrated holiday, I thank you for your service. I always wish you safe return home. [[♪ The bell ♪]] God help you and your families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u583	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u584	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It started in May. Maya, juicy Poland embraces us. What a Polish month, in which traditions are many significant elements. Let me start by remembering the May services. After all, this month is in the Church a month especially devoted to the worship of Our Lady. The famous May services held in the evenings in churches, at caves, chapels, roadside figures were permanently inscribed in the landscape of Poland. Its central part is the Loreta litany. We meet, therefore, as Poland's long and wide, inspired by love for the Blessed Virgin, and at the same time combined with the model of our predecessors, who, like us today, lasted years ago, and we remain in Loreta's prayer. I'd like to thank you for that, my fellow countrymen. It is a beautiful sight when we, sometimes driving our cars in the envoy, see in the corner of our eyes when you stand by these chapels and pray, sometimes also for us. God bless you. It is also May the invariable worship of the creators of the Constitution on 3 May and reflection on the importance of national unity and care for the common good which is the homeland. This awareness is strongly emphasized at a time when the pride associated with the fact that the Grand Sejm decided to accept this constitution is linked in memory with the shameful conspiracy and acts of the marketplaces, whose schemes with the Tsarica Katarzyna led to the second partition of Poland. This does not spoil the fact that Poland, covered with flowers of all kinds, bee buzzing and bird trebles, makes Poles able to find what is precious and connected in this world, avoiding what is destructive and conflicting. Have this in many houses the time of the First Holy Communion, in others again - the time of graduation. And both strengthen us, adults, nostalgic memories and sighs: everything started then, whether it was activity in the community of the Church or as a mature member of the community of citizens. The emotions we were experiencing at the time were so intense and intense that we take the memory of these moments with us as still fresh for life. The last sequence of my reflection will be devoted to two meetings. On May 5th, I had the privilege of attending the Second Diocese Day of Seniors and Retired Persons in our diocese of Góra and Gorzów - a sanctuary in Rokitno and, paradoxically, moments later in the diocese pilgrimage of the service of the liturgical altar, which was attended by 1050 altar boys with their guardians. In the first meeting, I had the honour to engage in a dialogue about the role of priests and the Church in maintaining independence, and earlier - about Poland's regaining it. The speakers were priests of age, over 40 years of priestly internship. Later, during the field service, I stood in the field in a cluster of young men with burning faces. For some of them it was the moment of receiving insignia or admission to the altar community. What's the point of me bringing these two events together? I will reflect on the courage that must be shared with priests who have entrusted their lives to the service of the Lord God, their neighbors, the Church and our homeland, as well as the courage of these young altar boys who bear witness to their faith and belonging to the values of the world, who ridicules, ignores, tries to undermine. What does that mean for us? The last two sentences. The concern for a man, a countryman, who makes various sensitive decisions about his fate and puts on the balance of service to the Lord God, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the neighbor and Poland, and gratitude to their parents, mothers and fathers, who tenderly watch over their sons' attitudes to grow in the beautiful tradition of the service of the altar, hoping that someday they will power the ranks of the Polish priesthood. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u585	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u586	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In March 2018, he celebrated his 70th birthday, Fr. Kazimierz Bednarski, one of the most outstanding contemporary Kosvalinian - for 38 years the parish priest of St. The Holy Spirit in Koszalin, co-organizer of John Paul II's visit to Koszalin in 1991, from which began the fourth pilgrimage of the Pope to his homeland, and the first to free Poland. In 1980 Fr. Kazimierz Bednarski became the parish priest of the newly established parish located among the complex of blocks in the north of Koszalina. After a few years there was a temple surrounded by parish buildings. The Church quickly became a marina for those who, living in atheistic reality, had not yet known another world of values and morality, had not yet come to know God and felt the heirs of the great Christian culture from which Europe and the whole civilized world grew up. The tower of the church, like a lantern among the grey blocks, attracted all those who were revived by the breeze of freedom. An independent art gallery was created here, a printing press not available at that time in the country patriotic literature, and the church and its surroundings became the only national shrine in Koszalin with sculptures, plaques commemorating Katyń, Volhynia, Monte Cassino, Boy Scouts of Independent, Cursed Soldiers. At the parish in the early 1990s, one of the first Catholic schools in Poland was established, known today for educational and teaching achievements. Today the parish of St. The spirit in Koszalin is known for many social initiatives, among others. from the family festivals, annual festivals, meetings with folklore, meetings with outstanding people organized by the Catholic Intelligence Club, media initiatives undertaken by secular Catholics, sobriety activities - the annual national sobriety pilgrimage to the Chełmska Mountain, library activities and dissemination of reading. For several years the parish has aspired to the role of the sanctuary of St. John Paul II calling for the Holy Spirit. The title refers to the famous words: Let your Spirit descend! Let your Spirit descend and restore the face of the earth! This land! - said by John Paul II on pl. Winnings in Warsaw during the first pilgrimage to Poland in 1979 and repeated in 1991 at the threshold of Polish independence at the airport in Koszalin. Fr. Kazimierz Bednarski is a doctor of Bible teachings, educator, co-founder and director of the Catholic school. St. John Paul II. He was the first priest in Poland to receive the award. Fr. Bolesław Domanski granted for organic work for Poland. It comes from the parish in Nowa Brzeźnica near Radomska, radiant with the fame of Jan Długosz. 9 May 1976 at the hands of Bishop B.C. Ignacy Jeja was ordained priestly in Białogard. In the jubilee year 2000, the Catholic Information Agency granted him the title of Pastor of the Year 2000. High Izbo! The work of one man who changed the city and played a significant historical role in the change of the turn of two centuries is so impressive that it is difficult to put them in words in a short speech. I think I will receive the approval of the High House to convey from here, from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, thanks and words of appreciation to the outstanding Koshalin priest, an extraordinary man, Fr. Kazimierz Bednarski. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u587	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u588	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, actually yesterday, because it's already hours. 0.20, we've been investigating the Biocomponents and Biofuels Act. This innocent name covers a lot of costs for all citizens, because it says in this bill that we will add another tax to each litre of fuel - 10 gr. What does this 10 gr mean? 2.5 billion a year out of all of us' pockets. This is another increase, we can say tax, not only about the money that will be taken from our pockets, i.e. the 2.5 billion PLN, but it is also an increase in the cost of food, actually all services. This is also a significant increase in the costs of farmers who use fuel in their machines. During this meeting, Marshal Sejm behaved outrageously, took the floor of one of our Members, who wanted to show, visually rearrange the fact that 53% of the fuel costs we pay at petrol stations are taxes. All the confusion has led to the fact that during the vote I was wrong and when we voted on the request made by Kukiz15 to reject the project at first reading, I voted against the proposal. This is an obvious mistake. I find this bill very harmful. It's taking money out of our pockets, and politicians should be looking for it at their own place. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that political parties are taking huge party subsidies, e.g. Law and Justice is 50,000. every day for party activities, whether it's Monday, Saturday, Sunday or New Year's Eve. If we want to save money and want to look for money, political parties should start looking for money in their own pockets, not further in citizens' pockets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-10-sejm-62-3.u589	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (ONR - ABC). He was a member of the internal secret structure of ONR Mon.: Organization of Poland. (his lawyer was Józef Lithuanian). Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 62nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 63rd session of the Sejm, scheduled for 5, 6, 7 and 8 June 2018, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 21]]
