ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u1	I open the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 18 December 2018, Kazimierz Kutz, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the 5th term, Marshal of the 6th and 8th term, Senator of the IV, V, VI and VIII term, Member of the 6th term of office of the Sejm, one of the most outstanding Polish directors, co-founder of the Polish Film School, portraitist of Silesia, creator of the Silesian triptych telling about the turbulent history of the region from which he was born, in unforgettable films of the black earth, Perla in the crown and the beads of one rosary. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It stays in our memory.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its seventy-fourth meeting on 14 December 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the sixty-sixth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 9 October 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2017. This document is contained in print No 982. On 26 October 2018, I sent a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The committees took note of the document and informed me of it. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that on 9 October 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers briefed the Senate on the implementation of the National Anti-Motoring Programme in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. It is included in print No 981. On 26 October 2018, I sent a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committees took note of the report and informed me of it. High Izbo, I inform you that on 18 October 2018, the President of the Council of Ministers handed over a report from the Council of Ministers to the Senate on the implementation of the Law on State Aid to Raising Children in 2016. It is included in print No 984. On the day... And here's the same thing... Oh, okay. On 26 October 2018, I sent a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees took note of the report and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 3 to 11 and points 14 to 17 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Senator Klein.]] Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to propose an additional item on our agenda. This is a point that would be the Minister for Energy's information about the amount of electricity prices from 1 January next year. It's actually very serious. In particular, it concerns entrepreneurs who have been informed in recent days about the need to sign agreements with energy plants, e.g. with Energa group, with new prices, which are clearly higher by 30%. , since the prices of this year, although in writing they say that these prices are more favourable than they were before. But that's another question. And now the problem is that if a new contract is not signed between an entrepreneur and an energy plant, it will be set even higher energy prices for entrepreneurs from 1 January, because they result from some basic price list. So they're up against the wall. And the Prime Minister during...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u3	But I understand, Mr. Senator... I get it. I understand the conclusion. [[Yeah, I'd just finish that one sentence...]] But, Senator, you're already in the middle of a discussion. And I'm explaining it all to you. [[Good.]] ...and I understand that conclusion. You've filed a motion. Conclusion and short justification And that's enough. We are currently debating a point that has not yet been introduced. [[Well, I don't want to have a debate, but I'd like to make a fuss...]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Senator, such a request must be made 10 days before the Senate meeting. If that's the case... There is no such formal proposal, in fact, so that I cannot actually put it to a vote. Because that's not an option when it comes to formal applications. Again? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, the point is that the case came up after the Prime Minister's statement... [[But this, Mr. Senator...]] ...and therefore... [[Mr. Senator, we have committees...]] ...this is extremely embarrassing... [[...we have the right committees...]] Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u5	The Commission could meet and talk about this. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But we have to stick to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, and that's the point we can't enter. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But there's a motion, and we're gonna vote on it. [[...I also want to inform...]] You're too... [[...that at the committee meeting...]] ...I'm against it, so we're going to vote it out in a minute. [[Yeah, but this is... what are these people supposed to do? Mr. Marshal, today I asked...]] But you... But we're not gonna settle this here tonight. [[But today at the committee meeting, I asked...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz volunteered. You're welcome. [[...the committee to make this case... and the minister present today at the committee meeting...]] Mr. Senator... [[...he refused information.]] Mr. Senator, I understand your request. The conclusion is, you've made such a request and we're about to vote on it. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz yet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, but a request for addition should be considered. [[But in a moment, Mr. Marshal, I will surrender him...]] I understand, but... [[Is there a new conclusion now, or...]] ...this is not a request under Article. 34.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u7	Okay, okay. We'll vote it out, Mr. Marshal, we'll vote it out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We will vote on this motion. I'm against... You're all for it, and I'm against it. Are there any other voices in other matters, not this one? Because in this moment, we are going to vote. Are there any other suggestions? [[Mr. Marshal, I'm afraid for the results of this vote. People just don't know what to do at all. We have ten days till the end of the year...]] Okay, Mr. Senator, I get it. [[...and the minister at the committee meeting doesn't answer...]] I see. [[And that's the problem.]] Who's in favor of... Senator Kleina has filed a motion. Everybody heard what it was. Who's in favor of this motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 79 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And what to say...]] I state that the Senate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there any other conclusions, ladies and gentlemen? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[They force themselves to sign the agreement...]] Are there any other... There isn't. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't hear any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. For the examination of laws concerning the Police and the Personal Data Protection Act, i.e. 8th, 9th and 10th, we will proceed today after 3 p.m. Point 12th, i.e. The law on amending the law on international agreements will be considered today after 4:00 p.m. Tomorrow we will resume the session at 9.00 a.m. after considering the point on the resolution establishing 2019 the Year of Mathematics. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We will then proceed with the examination of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. After these 2 items, there will be a vote on the laws considered today. So that tomorrow morning the vote. To consider the 13th and 14th points, i.e. The law on amending the Civil Code and the Law on amending the Law on notariat, we will proceed tomorrow. Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, i.e. Point six, will be considered tomorrow after 1 p.m. Tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. there will be a senate fee meeting, for which I cordially invite you senators and employees of the firm. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[I volunteered while Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: Are you okay?]] Well, Mr. Senator, no, not at the moment. I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: But a colleague earlier...]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, the secretary saw.]] I asked you clearly if anyone... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I asked you twice. Please read in the transcript Do you...? Twice. What are you... [[No. It's a recess, Mr. Marshal. It's just a break.]] What break? [[About a break for our club between 3:00 and 4:00 today.]] That's what the Senior Convention is for. But okay. Of course, we agree to this break. Mr. Senator, this is a matter of... That's what the Senior Convention is for, and you weren't at the Senior Convention. You should have given that information. Between 3:00 and 4:00 p.m., we're gonna have a break. There are no votes against. It was a formal motion, and that's how you should report it. We proceed with the examination of the first order: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 with the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko. I would like to warmly welcome Stanisław Moniuszko's family present at the meeting and representatives of organisations involved in promoting knowledge about his work. Hello, everyone. [[Applause]] Hello, Minister, Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Wanda Zwinogrodzka. Welcome very much. Hello the family of Maciej Dehnel, Antoni Dehnel, Elżbieta Stanisława Janowska-Moniuszko, Stanisław Kazimierz Wójcik, Aleksandra Wójcik. Hello, Director of the Department of National Cultural Institutions Agnieszka Komar-Morawska. Hello, Director of the Great Theatre. The National Opera of Waldemar Dąbrowski. Welcome very cordially to the president of the Moniuszko Music Lovers' Society, Mrs. Jolanta Roscrowska. Welcome very cordially to the Vice President of the Warsaw Music Society. Stanisław Moniuszko, Mrs Maria Korecka-Soszkowska. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 710 and the report is published in print No 710 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Dear Stanislaw Moniuszko's Family! Dear Invited Guests! I have the honour to speak on the one hand as rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and, on the other hand, the initiator of a draft resolution to the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2019 with the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko in connection with the 200th anniversary of his birth. This project was prepared by me at the end of 2017 and signed by 50 senators. It was submitted on 23 January this year, in parallel with the initiative of the Sejm. Earlier, in November 2017, this anniversary was honoured at the thirty-nineth session of the UNESCO General Conference as a joint anniversary of Poland, Lithuania and Belarus. So this will be the third honoring of this outstanding artist. Who was Stanisław Moniuszko? By many of us he is known primarily as the father of the Polish national opera, but also as an outstanding composer, conductor of operas, symphony orchestras and choirs and educators. He was born on 5 May 1819 in the Ubiel estate near Minsk. He died on 4 June 1872 in Warsaw. After a short period of homework under the direction of his mother Elizabeth, he was educated in the piano since 1827 with August Freyer in Warsaw and from 1830 with Dominik Stefanowicz in Minsk. In 1836, during his stay in Vilnius, he met his future wife Aleksandra Müllerówna. In 1837, he went to study in Berlin, where he studied private harmony, counterpoint, instrumentality and conducting under the direction of Carl Friedrich Rungenhagen, director of the Music Society of Singakademie. He was also practicing, leading the choir and accompaniing the singers. He learned the great opera, oratorial and symphonic repertoire and the process of preparing works for the exhibition and conducting technique, taking part in the trials conducted by Rungenhagen and the host in Berlin Gaspar Spontini. After a 3-year stay in Berlin, in 1840. Moniuszko returned to the country, married Aleksandra Müllerówna and lived with her in Vilnius, where he became a private piano teacher and became an organist in the church of St. Jana. His activities contributed greatly to the revival of the Vilnius musical environment. At St. Jan organized an amateur choir band with which he performed with the ad hoc organized orchestra "Requiem" Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and fragments of oratorioes "The Creation of the World by Joseph Haydn and Saint Paul Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy." At one of the concerts the orchestra performed under his baton by Gaspar Spontini, Felix Mendelssohn, Louis van Beethoven. He also traveled to St. Petersburg and introduced the audience to his work, which gained great success and favorable press. In 1848 in Vilnius he prepared and personally led the premiere on the stage of the first two-act version of the opera Halka. In 1854, with the participation of Achilles Bonoldi, he founded the Society to them. St. Cecilia, whose amateur members gave public concerts under his baton twice a year. After the triumph, which took place on 1 January 1858 the Warsaw premiere of the new four-act version of Halki, made an artistic journey to Germany and France, and after returning on 1 August 1858 he was appointed as the first conductor of the Polish Opera at the Grand Theatre in Warsaw. His first work in 1858 was his own one-act opera Flis. During nearly 15 years of work in this position he prepared and staged all his next operas. He limited himself almost exclusively to conducting his own works. He also conducted occasional choirs in Warsaw churches, among others. In the evangelical church, he set up the oratory of Elias Feliks Mendelssohn. He also performed annually as a conductor at composer concerts. In 1862, he left for Paris again, hoping to perform one of his operas, but it didn't happen. The period of the January Uprising stopped the composer's work, the difficult political conditions were not conducive to creativity. In 1865, however, the exhibition of the opera "The Horrible Court" aroused enthusiasm. The new opera was a success similar to the success of Halki. One of the most important items in Moniuszko's composer record is a few hundred songs known as the Home Singer. Even during the artist's life, they were gladly sung by Poles, as well as for generations after his death. Still in 1864. Moniuszko started lectures on harmony, counterpoint and composition and conducted a choir band at the Music Institute in Warsaw. His disciples were among others. Zygmunt Noskowski and Henryk Jarecki. Moniuszko's music gained wide recognition in Polish society. It is commonly regarded as a pattern of Slavic music. Stanisław Moniuszko died suddenly of a heart attack. He was buried at the Powęzkowski Cemetery in Warsaw. His funeral became a national manifestation and a tribute to the magnificent, rooted in the history of Polish, Lithuanian and Belarusian works, still appreciated throughout Europe and around the world. Back to the resolution, I will say that, as I have already indicated, it was supported by the signatures of 50 senators, including among others. the majority of the members of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media and of the Senators of the Parliamentary Group. Culture, Tradition and Heritage of Little Homeland, headed by Deputy Marshal Maria Koc. Although it has not been possible to reach everyone, I think that this noble initiative would find much greater recognition and each of the senators would sign up for this initiative. On 24 October 2018, the Senate Legislative Commission started work on this initiative. Amendments were tabled by the composer's family And here I thank Elizabeth Janowska-Moniuszko for her cooperation, assistance and amendments tabled And the senators. As a result, an editorial team was set up under my leadership and was composed of Senators Barbara Zdrojewska, Wojciech Piech and Piotr Zientarski. Senator Jan Żaryn was also present at the meeting of the team. The result of the work of the team is a resolution which was unanimously adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Commission on 25 October 2018. Let me move on to the presentation of a draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 by the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2019 by Stanisław Moniuszko. On May 5, 2019 200 years have passed since the birth of the outstanding Polish composer and patriot Stanisław Moniuszko. He was born in 1819 in the Ubiel estate near Minsk in a land family with patriotic traditions. His father Czesław participated in the Napoleonic campaign. Stanisław Moniuszko moved to history as the father of the Polish national opera, as well as the leading representative of the genre of songs in Polish music. He created for the comfort of the hearts enslaved by the conquerors of Poles. In the years preceding the outbreak of the January Uprising and immediately after, contrary to difficult social and political conditions, he created his most famous works The Opera House and the Horrible Manor. Moniuszko's inspiration for music was folk culture. The composer's genius was the ability to combine folklore with elements of European opera (Italian, French and German). Choirs play an important role in Moniuszko's operas, e.g. Highlanders, as well as elements of Polish national dances (polonez, mazur, highland dances). One of the best-known collections of his fine works is a series of twelve home singers containing songs to the words of various Polish poets (e.g. Theofil Lenartowicz, Adam Mickiewicz, Wincenty Pol, Stefan Witwicki and others), as well as strangers (in Polish translation) and folk words. He also wrote religious music, songs, and music for organs, wanting the music played in churches to be higher and thus deepen the spiritual experiences of the faithful. Stanisław Moniuszko is a great Polish composer without whose genius there would be no Polish national opera. We place it on a high pedestal, among other Polish national composers such as Fryderyk Chopin and Henryk Wieniawski. Stanisław Moniuszko died of a heart attack in 1872. He was buried at the Powęzkowski Cemetery in Warsaw. His funeral became a national manifestation. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes 2019 as the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko to pay tribute to the well-deserved Artist, who devoted his life and creativity to the promotion of Polish culture and music on the 200th anniversary of his birthday. Announcement of 2019 The Year of Stanisław Moniuszko will not only bring life and rich work of the outstanding composer, but will also draw the attention of Poles to patriotic attitudes among artists and the need to create art that draws inspiration from Polish culture. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The project is accompanied by a preliminary framework of celebrations, which emphasized that the celebrations of the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko will be an inspiration for many communities to organize various events of a musical and historical nature related to the life and work of the father of the Polish national opera. These initiatives will have both a central and a local dimension. I would like to point out that many actions have already been carried out as Moniuszkowski in 2019 and many initiatives are already under way. The representative of the government for the organisation of the 200th anniversary of Stanisław Moniuszko's birth was appointed to attend the meeting of the director of the Grand Theatre. The Waldemar Dąbrowski National Opera. Thank you very much for meeting me at which you brought up the planned initiatives. A special programme of the Ministry of Culture was also launched, in which funds for tasks and initiatives related to the work of the father of the Polish national opera could be applied. The works of Stanisław Moniuszko will also be promoted outside the country. Cooperation with Belarus and the Polish community in Belarus is being prepared. These initiatives will be supported by the Senate both in Poland and abroad. Special attention will be paid to activities initiated and implemented by Polonia or created in cooperation with our fellow countrymen in other countries. During the implementation of the event plan, we will certainly try hard to involve the upper chamber and organize an exhibition and conference dedicated to Stanisław Moniuszce in May 2019. We will also support any initiatives concerning this year at home and abroad. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I would like to quote a passage from the text that appears on the website of the Primary School to them. Stanisława Moniuszko in Łajska: Stanisław Moniuszko is the patron of our school. Composer, conductor of operas, symphony orchestras and choirs and educators. Students under the guidance of teachers studied the knowledge of a talented artist and with great passion painted portraits of the creators of the national opera. They also participated with enthusiasm in numerous competitions: literary, plastic and Stanisław Moniuszka. There are many places in our country that remind us of Stanislaw Moniuszka. There are also a number of people organizing a number of initiatives in connection with the maintenance of the memory of it. May 2019, in connection with the 200th anniversary of the birth of the father of the Polish national opera, become a special time in which we will talk, as well as remind and admire the rich art, rich heritage that Stanisław Moniuszko left us. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the Senate adopt a resolution establishing the year 2019 as the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u10	I'm just on a technical point, Mr. Senator. I have the impression that you've read one piece twice, so if...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u11	No, that's not a question, Senator. Mr. Senator, we have guests, there are children here, so let's be serious. [[For the sake of clarity...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Senator, don't answer that. Are there any questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Would you like to speak? [[Yes.]] Yes, the senator signed up for the discussion. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In my speech I actually quoted Stanisław Moniuszko's biography and a passage of the resolution. In fact, there were two sentences just overlapped. [[They were covering up, normally...]] [[That means we're following...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me take the floor in the discussion to present in a few words the history of the event which directly concerns Stanisław Moniuszko, which takes place in my region, in the region of the Kłodzko Region, in the city of Kudowa-Zdrój, namely the annual Moniuszko International Festival held there at the end of August. It so happens that even before I took up the honorary role of senator, I had the honour to co-organize this event in 2015 as the head of the report on the management of EU funds and promotions at the city office, while at the same time a member of the Moniuszków Cultural Society in Kudowa-Zdrój, and then, as a senator, three times in 2016 and 2018 I patronized this festival. As far as history is concerned, the first edition of the festival was inaugurated on 15 July 1962, on the 90th anniversary of the death of the patron of the event. The festival offered music in concert form. Arias and songs by Stanisław Moniuszko were presented in the performance of artists of the Warsaw Great Theatre, orchestra and choir under the direction of Władysław Skoraczewski, who took over artistic direction. The work of the organizational committee was led by Wacław Kaniewski, the second of the founders of the festival. The following year, the Moniuszkowski Festival was opened by the Wrocław Opera. Since this event opera performances have been permanently included in the programs of the Kudov festival. The performances of Moniuszko's operas were performed, such as the Halka, the Scary Manor, the Flis, the Paria and the Verbum nobile, as well as the works of Verdi, Mozart, Donizetti, Żeleński, Smetana, Bizet and others. After Władysław Skoraczewski, the artistic director was people associated with the Lower Silesian Music Society, among others. Leon Hanek, Ludwik Mika, Ewa Kofin, Zbigniew Goncerzewicz and Jerzy Filc. In 1978, just before the 17th edition of the festival, Maria Fołtyn, an outstanding Polish singer and opera director, became artistic director. Thanks to the involvement of the Polish singer, the festival became a weekly opera and ballet artistic presentation with the participation of the most outstanding Polish artists. Maria Fołtyn was at the head of the Kudov festival for 20 years, transforming it into a renowned international event during which the artists of the Moniuszko roles from Europe, Cuba and Japan performed. She referred to: We were also looking for other musical versions of Moniuszko's composition, organizing a show in 1980... To this day, I can hear Irena Santor, Grechuty and satirical interpretations of the aria of After years of greatness in the early 1990's, there was a crisis. Moniuszkowski Festival, like many other wonderful cultural events in Poland, received less and less financial support. The financial collapse caused Stanisław Moniuszko's annual celebration to become more modest because the ambitious programme lacked funding. In 1999, before the 28th edition of the festival, the artistic director was offered to Sławomir Pietras, director of many opera scenes in Poland. He introduced to the repertoire concert tournaments of tenors, which gathered the biggest Polish singers. Since 2012, the artistic director is present here, at the meeting, the director Stanisław Rybarczyk, whom I very warmly welcome as well, an outstanding conductor and animator of culture, who on the 50th anniversary of the festival created an jubilee programme of concerts and meetings presenting the works of Stanisław Moniuszko. In 50 years in the most beautiful places of Kudowy In the Spa Theatre, the Theatre under the Plate, the concert hall in the mineral waters and the Spa Park As well as several thousand singers and musicians, well-known opera bands, symphony and chamber orchestras, as well as the stars of opera and theatre scenes from Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark, Lithuania, Russia, Slovakia, Ukraine, Germany, Norway, Italy, the United States, Japan, Cuba and Mexico. For years, Moniuszkowski's corrode has been accepted with great enthusiasm. Artists, authorities and residents in Polish nobility walk through Kudowy streets, inviting the audience of the festival to dance together to celebrate the feast of Stanisław Moniuszko, the father of the Polish national opera. The festival organized by the Moniuszko Cultural Society during 50 years of activity became one of the most important Polish music events presenting the work of the father of the Polish national opera Stanisław Moniuszko. Moniuszkowski Festival in Kudowa-Zdroj is the second oldest music festival in Poland, after the International Chopin Festival in Duszniki-Zdroj. It is actually one of the most important musical events in Poland taking place in Lower Silesia, which for more than half a century has been presenting the works and achievements of Stanisław Moniuszko. In the social consciousness, Lower Silesia, including Kudowa-Zdrój, clearly associate with Stanisław Moniuszka and a long-term presentation of his works. The Fifty-seventh Moniuszkowski International Festival in 2019 will certainly have a special dimension due to Moniuszko's 200th anniversary. I invite you to this, as well as other events related to the Moniuszko Year celebrated in Poland and the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymanski made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko on the 200th anniversary of his birth. Who's in favor of the senators? Who among your senators is against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of Stanisław Moniuszko on the 200th anniversary of his birth. I cordially ask Mrs Elżbieta Stanisława Janowska-Moniuszko to approach the presidential table. I'll pass the resolution on to you. You're welcome. [[Marshal Stanisław Karczewski presents the resolution]] [[Applause]] [[Ms Elżbieta Stanisława Janowska-Moniuszko: Can I...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u14	I'm sorry I'm taking up precious time. I would just like to thank you very warmly to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, all the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and other institutions and organisations who have engaged in commemorating the anniversary of our ancestor's birth. I would also like to thank all those who are engaged on a daily basis in promoting knowledge... I would particularly like to thank Senator Aleksandr Szwed for the initiative on the Senate resolution on the year Moniuszko and his commitment to bring to many different activities related to our ancestor. Thank you very much for this honor, Mr. Marshal, for the fact that even very young, eight - and nine years old, Moniuszko's descendants may be present and are privileged to observe the proceedings. [[Applause]] This is Antoni Dehnel and Alexander Wójcik. We have the president of the Stanisław Moniuszko Foundation founded by the descendants themselves, Mr Stanisław Kazimierz Wójcik. [[Applause]] The oldest member of our family is Maciej Dehnel, retired first-class volleyball coach. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] Thank you again for this honor for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u15	Thank you kindly, thank you very much. I'm declaring a brief technical recess, a few minutes. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 38 to 11 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u16	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1043, and the committee's report In print No 1043 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...of the Act of 6 December 2018 amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other Acts. The purpose of the Act is to introduce provisions governing the obligation of medical secrecy, i.e. the confidentiality of information related to the patient after his death by medical professionals, including regulations laying down the procedure and rules for the disclosure of secrecy at the request of a loved one and for the making available of his medical records. In the current legal state, Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a The Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist provides for the possibility of objecting only by a person close to the disclosure of medical confidentiality by the doctor after the death of the patient. The amendment introduces the possibility for the patient to object during the life of the patient to the disclosure of information concerning him after his death. This objection would be included in the medical records. In the event of a dispute between loved ones about the disclosure of medical confidentiality or the extent of such disclosure, a regulation shall be introduced in the Act on Competitions of a Doctor and a Dentist according to which the disclosure shall be expressed by the court referred to in Article. 628 Code of Civil Procedure, in non-trial proceedings at the request of a loved one or a doctor. On the other hand, where a patient in his lifetime has objected to disclosure of medical confidentiality, the court in non-trial proceedings at the request of a loved one may consent to disclosure of the secret and determine the extent of its disclosure, if necessary: firstly, to protect the life or health of the loved one and, secondly, to seek compensation or compensation for the death of the patient. In both cases, the court examines: the interests of the parties involved in the proceedings, the real relationship of the person close to the deceased patient, the will of the deceased patient, the circumstances of opposition. With amendments to the Act on Competitions, doctors and dentists were synchronized with amendments to the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman's Rights. Two amendments were tabled during the committee's work. These amendments concern mainly the issue which has been discussed, namely to remove from the bill the part which concerns the so-called. breach of medical confidentiality in order to seek compensation or compensation for the death of a patient. In many countries, this issue is dealt with in different ways. In Belgium, for example, the rules in force strongly prohibit the disclosure of the deceased's records if he had previously forewarned it. In Sweden, it is possible to obtain such information if a person close to you so requests and applies to a person in a medical facility who has such information. If she refuses to provide such information, the appeal shall be two-way, i.e. it may be made available to the head of the establishment, and if he refuses to provide such information, the administrative court may be required to accept the request or not. In Denmark, it is also possible to obtain such information on the condition of the deceased if he opposed the provision of such information through health care facilities. This is also the case in the Czech Republic, where medical staff and in practice the treating physician can provide such information. In the amendment of this law, we assume that in Poland this would be decided by the court. Following its meeting, the Senate Health Committee recommends adopting this law with amendments that have been tabled. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u18	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: May I?]] Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project has been examined by the Committee on Petitions for over a year and it is as if it is a rather difficult subject. The areas presented by Senator Kraska include 3 parts: the first concerns a loved one Here is the reason for defining this person and there was no controversy about it; the second part concerns medical confidentiality. It was this level of medical secrecy that was most debated; the third part is related to medical documentation and sharing. Once a defined person is close, there is no problem, but when a sick person in life opposed to making it available, then it is. This project during the multi-month work of the subcommittee, and then of the Health Committee, was discussed precisely in connection with the possibility of making it available. The petition committee, and then the Sejm Health Committee, moved to give this opportunity to a loved one, but after the court considered it in a non-trial manner, with some kind of sharpening. Therefore, there is no government position on this petition, but I would like to point out here that this possibility would be given to a loved one with the conditions that were previously presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You have brought this issue to your attention, Minister. And I'm very happy because I had an extensive question about this issue that you just raised. But I still believe, Minister, that the solution regarding the case where a patient in his life has forbidden access to medical records, as well as information about his health, you will grant And I'm glad you're seeing it. It raises doubts. If everyone is in doubt, and in your statement I sense that you have doubts too, then how and why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. The fact that these doubts were the subject of debate is the honoring of a man who consciously decides not to have access to the area of his documentation. But, as we can see, in the world, as these mentioned cases confirm... Even in Belgium, despite this absolute ban, this documentation is not, as it were, frozen, only to obtain information on the health of this person in the case of e.g. genetic diseases or diseases that affect the offspring are possible. We, when we participate in this discussion, are also leaning towards a second solution. In cases where a loved one has a suspicion that, however, there has been e.g. to any mistakes in the art, or if in process, succession or any insight into the documentation proves necessary. So by such a provision, as I understand it, we make it easier for a loved one to claim from a civil action, in the event that the documentation or records of medical records would be relevant. Here the doubt arises from the sense of such full respect for the work of doctors who prepare this documentation, and there is simply some reluctance to present these records. Nevertheless, this access obtained through civil proceedings would, in my opinion, be easier if we kept the record prepared by the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u23	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How do you consider the amendment proposed by the committee to exclude from the grounds compensation or compensation for the death of a patient?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u25	It's hard to make a clear assessment here. In my opinion... Well, when we debate the committee's work, we also represent the citizens. A loved one who suspects that some element in medical records would be helpful in pursuing certain claims would have had a certain ease of course if it had been the same as before, i.e. without that correction. The amendment in turn, in my opinion, refers to a desire to emphasize, first, the mystery, i.e. its own will, and second, the relief, I think, the healthcare providers or, say, the doctor or the specific health care facility, the hospital or... mainly the hospital, in case of a wave of claims, the search for these errors. And that's why it's as if this ambivalence in my statement, which the senator also noticed. But I think from the citizen's perspective, if you look at it from the citizen's side... Well, I don't think this record is causing a huge wave of claims, especially since every time the court decides. Here we are dealing with a specific situation when a patient in life declares aversion, i.e. agrees consciously that no one should be allowed to do so, which, from my perspective, This is the result of my experience working in hospitals It's very rare. I do not recall the fact that someone in life made such a declaration, and I have been working for decades. However, such situations are possible. And then if you're close. It also specifies who has such a right. For various reasons, suspecting a mistake, she will want to pursue her claim, and I hope that she will not have the will of profit, then she will have a facilitated road through civil action. Well, if it wasn't... At the moment, the investigation is, of course, possible thanks to the criminal code, which is probably a little more complicated. So these are the dilemmas that we discussed during the committee's work for over a year. [[But as I understand it, Minister, such cases of objection to your data after death are, as you said, very little, right?]] Well, I don't remember those from my career. Perhaps they are, probably because sometimes you hear that with certain people in the family we don't want to have any contact at all, so to speak. It's the only thing that doesn't happen at medical records. However, we come to the hospital with a particular need, asking for specific help, not thinking about possible errors or possible successions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u27	Minister, what comments were made to the original draft by the patient's spokesperson and the President of the General Medical Chamber, and which of these comments have been taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u28	I understand that this is about the original project that was adopted by the Health Committee and then by the Sejm. As far as the ombudsman is concerned, he was no longer referring to comments at this stage. Because earlier these comments, in the case of the previous committee, referred to the whole system related to the Act on the Ombudsman's Rights, i.e. it was the will to indicate a broader aspect, not only medical confidentiality, but also medical documentation. The General Medical Council has pointed out precisely those records that we are discussing now, that firstly, the conscious will of opposition is inhonorable, and secondly, perhaps this will inspire citizens to pursue their claims. Therefore, this point concerning not so much. I'll quote it. To protect the life or health of a loved one, how much compensation or compensation for the death of the patient. And there's also this statement of objection, because it also requires, as I say, a reaction from a doctor or a hospital.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u29	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Radziwill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act in its original version, which was sent to the Sejm at the initiative of a group of citizens, has arranged certain shortcomings of the Act, which we have been dealing with for some time in connection with, first of all, doubts about the relationship between the various loved ones that may be in dispute and in general the definition of a loved one. That's what I don't want to do, it's obvious, it's to fix a legal act that was wrongly formulated. But indeed, in the Committee on Health, the most discussion was caused by this thing, which was not in the original version of the bill. Senator Elephant asked about the relationship of external institutions, but they probably expressed their attitude towards the original draft legislation, which looked completely different. It was not what was most controversial, in my opinion, and this opinion was also shared by the Senate Health Committee. Well, in a completely unexpected way for me, there were additional regulations there. First on the petition committee of the Sejm, and then the Health Committee accepted it. Which deal with, so to speak, violations of medical confidentiality in such a very special situation I agree with the Minister here that this is an exceptional situation When a sick person in life opposes disclosure of medical information about himself to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this issue is concerned at all, it is important to note that there may be 3 situations. The first is when a patient authorizes someone to look into information about him, and it is believed that this authorization works also after his death. This is a non-controversial matter. Here, by the way, it is worth noting that it does not have to be a close person, but simply indicated by the patient. When such a person dies, that person has access to medical records according to the patient's will to live. The second situation, where the patient did not give a single opinion on who should be given medical information, is a little more complicated, but in principle also considered to be and the rules allow it. In such situations, as if by presumption of consent, a close person defined by the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson may reach this medical information in one way or another. But that's not what the bill does, so I'm not discussing it. And the third situation, actually quite unique, is a situation where a patient in his life directly objects, he reserves not to reveal medical information about himself to anyone. This is actually a rare situation, but I think it's okay. It doesn't take any great imagination to recognize that this happens probably mostly when a patient either has no loved one, or is in some kind of dispute, in some sort of disagreement. or even in conflict. It happens too, even in families. If the patient expresses to the medical staff above all to doctors This is the opinion: please do not disclose medical information about me to anyone, either now or after death, so he knows what he is doing. And I think we're dealing with a situation that goes far beyond health care. Because you could say that in the Hippocratic oath it is, too, isn't it? In fact, there is a passage in which a doctor swears that he will not reveal medical confidentiality either in his life or after the patient's death. This is, you could say, one of the foundations, the milestones. And tradition in this area is particularly strong. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a second tradition here. I think that such a tradition is cultivated especially in Poland, but also in the whole world, especially in the world of our cultural circle. This is respect for the will of the dead. Not at all. Not just about health, but not at all. The will of the dead We're telling you. It's a saint. And it seems like it's something very important after all. Of course, even if it's sacred, it can't be absolute. And there's no doubt about that. There are regulations that say that in certain situations, especially when a case involves a crime or... There's a whole list of different laws that tell you when it's such a mystery after all. The main issue is the judicial authorities, the decisions of the prosecutor, the court of law can be disclosed in order to prosecute a criminal offence or to explain such cases. There is another argument that, in some situations, this mystery actually, even though the deceased objected, should be disclosed. These are situations that concern the protection of the life or health of a loved one. That's what Senator Kraska was talking about. There is at the moment an area of genetics in which certain information about this deceased may be relevant to the life and health of his relatives or descendants. And that's where the court should be able to agree. This one's written here, too. It's not controversial either. However, the controversy is strongly raised by Passus, who says that medical confidentiality may be revealed against the will of the deceased to seek compensation or compensation for the death of the patient. And what does that mean in practice? This is a situation, please, in which this once-living, now-dead patient, in some conflict, becomes the subject of 'Cause it's definitely not the subject. Some claims of his loved ones, with whom he was in conflict, did not want to reveal anything to them, who simply wanted to obtain some money for his death. I really don't think that's an argument for violating this very sacred will of the deceased. I therefore strongly support the amendment adopted by the Committee on Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1048 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1048 A and 1048 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. This law was dealt with at a meeting of the council committee yesterday. As far as the matter of the law is concerned, its aim is to strengthen the legal mechanisms for improving the financial security of local government units and to enable the restructuring of the debt of local government units, to clarify the rules on the debt of local government units and to regulate the resolution procedures. The law includes, inter alia, the calculation of the debt repayment rate, liabilities which have economic effects similar to the loan agreement or loan contract, so-called. non-standard financial instruments; includes liabilities that have economic effects similar to a loan agreement or credit with limitations such as traditional credit agreements and loans; requires the management of local government units to obtain the opinion of the Regional Audit Chamber on the ability to repay a commitment which has economic effects similar to that of the loan or credit agreement. In addition, the Act eliminates revenue from the sale of assets from the individual debt ratio of local government units as an element that improves the ability to repay debt and extends the period for which the debt repayment limit is calculated from 3 to 7 years. The Act also allows the payment of existing debt j.s.t. new debt with lower operating costs and early repayment of debt from own financial resources and free settlement of liabilities. The Act also clarifies the provisions on remedial proceedings and adds a provision that, in the absence of a regional audit office's opinion on this scheme, the authorities of the local government unit may be suspended and the management board may be set up, in accordance with the procedure and rules laid down in the Local Government Act, in the District Law or in the Regional Government Act, excluding the call of the authorities of the unit to submit an immediate improvement programme. In this case, the resolution programme shall be drawn up immediately and submitted to the Regional Audit Chamber for opinion by the Government Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, the Legal Office of the Senate has submitted 2 comments to this legal matter. The first is a more editorial remark, and in this case the amendment is proposed, and the second point is of a certain legal doubt, which you presented to us at the committee meeting, the Vice-Director of the Office. But during the discussion, these proposals for amendments were not accepted by the present committee of Vice-Minister Tomasz Robaczyński, who justified this in an appropriate way. As a result, the committee adopted the position of the Ministry and also asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker, a colleague representing the local government committee, discussed the bill perfectly. Then I will limit my speech to informing you of what we were doing during the meeting. A particularly important topic which the committee absorbed during the discussion of this law is the question raised by the Polish Towns Association of financing the repayment of future commitments from the sale of assets at the disposal of local governments. The Act introduces a restriction in this respect, it will apply from 2026, but the Polish Towns Association has given a negative opinion on this change. That I would use the term from the magazine of the Association of Polish Cities. During the committee, we had a broad explanation of the reasons for the introduction of this provision. I also personally supported this regulation by explaining that the funds that the local government obtains from the sale of assets can be used to repay existing liabilities and thus increase the capacity of local authorities to enter into new liabilities, but should not, due to the volatility of the valuation of these assets, be the sources of repayment indicated in future borrowings, which is completely, fully in line with the applicable banking practice. Thus, after this discussion, the committee recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. During the committee meeting there was a discussion about the actions of local authorities in implementing the law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of those land. This discussion was triggered by information about the actions of local governments which are currently re-evaluated the fees for perpetual use, often setting very high charges. Media reports in the case of Warsaw talk about increases in fees by 500%. At the committee meeting we gave an example of a 50-metre flat, where the previous fee was 500 PLN, and when the owner of this apartment received a calculation of the new fee, it was set at 1 thousand 100 PLN. This example was probably from Mokotow. It's even worse with Ochota. In the case of Ochota, the owners of garages, who have so far paid PLN 134 perpetuity fees, will pay PLN 770. That's what they got. So we are dealing with such actions of local governments, which are actually aimed at undoing the benefits of this law, because citizens had the right to transform this perpetual use into property, using discounts. Raising the base, or starting fee, is destroying the benefit of this increase. In the event of an increase of more than 100% in this perpetual usage charge as I said, offered discount, offered discount of 60% in practice it means slightly less than 30% increases in previous rates. That's an important... This could cause a significant disincentive for citizens to benefit from the benefits of this law and to pay these conversion fees once. The Commission held a very broad discussion on this subject, among others. with the participation of Deputy Minister Sobonia representing the Ministry of Infrastructure. We also met on this issue this morning and continued this discussion. After receiving information that this event, this incident or even excess, because we called it that, the excess of Warsaw, consisting in withdrawing from the resolution establishing a 98% discount and reducing it to 60%... Whether this excess of Warsaw will be repaired by the city council of Warsaw and the current rate will be restored, i.e. this rate adopted earlier, before the elections, promised before the elections, or 98% ? The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance decided not to take a statutory initiative at this stage. I would like to remind you that the Senate's Rules of Procedure allow the drafting of a draft law to be drafted in a situation where the committee, when working on the bill, considers it necessary to amend another law. This is why we have considered this possibility in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I hope we are not mistaken, but, well, our morning decision to abstain from this initiative does not, of course, mean that the Senate should not take such an initiative. Perhaps this issue should be settled actually at the statutory level in isolation from the political events happening now in Warsaw, because we are dealing with a phenomenon that concerns the whole of Poland. Thus, with regard to the law in print no. 1048, as I mentioned in the introduction, the Committee on Budget and Finance recommends that it be adopted without amendment. This is exhausting my report, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Senator, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u36	Not so much with a question as a formal question, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you to refer this law to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, because through this committee there was a law on converting the right to perpetual use to residential purposes into property rights of these land. We'd like to take another look at it and reschedule it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u37	Thank you very much. I put the motion of Senator Stanisławek to the vote. Who is in favour of adopting this proposal and referring the bill to the committee? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 19 senators voted, so we don't have a quorum. [[Voting No 3]] Then we'll take a break by 12:25. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 17 to 12 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. Before the break, we voted on a formal motion by Mr... [[Senator.]] Excuse me, senator... I didn't mean to offend anyone. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...Mr. Senator Stanisławek. Could the senator repeat this request? Some of the girlfriends and girlfriends were gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u38	Yes, of course. In connection with the Act on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land very... Please refer this law to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Committee on Local Government and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, so to speak, closed the work on this law, and the law on the conversion of the right of perpetual use was just passed through the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. We are now voting again on this proposal. Who's in favor of Senator Stanisławek's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 59 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] Senator Stanisławek's motion has been accepted. Dismissed until 1:30 p.m. And an announcement from the secretary's senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u40	Message. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Act amending the Law on Public Finance and some other laws, Senate printing No. 1048, will take place today, 19 December, immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u41	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 27 to 14 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u42	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that the reports of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance were presented prior to the interruption of the session; prints 1048 A and 1048 B. The Senate accepted Senator Andrzej Stanisławek's request and sent the bill to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which prepared a report on this matter. It is available in print No 1048 C. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall submit a proposal for this legislative initiative. The bill is included in print No 1063. I would like to remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the review of the bill... After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the further reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to take the floor and present the report of the committee and the request of the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and the Act to transform the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into property rights of these land. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to present a report on the Public Finance Act and some other laws. At today's meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, a law was presented aimed at strengthening the legal mechanisms for improving the financial security of local government units, enabling debt restructuring to these entities, clarifying the rules on the debt of local government units and regulating resolution procedures. In view of the above objectives, this law includes, inter alia,: includes, when calculating the debt repayment rate, a commitment that has economic effects similar to the loan agreement or loan agreement; includes commitments that have economic effects similar to the loan agreement or loan agreement, restrictions such as traditional credit agreements and loans; requires the management of local government units to obtain the opinion of the regional audit chamber. In addition, the Act eliminates revenue from the sale of assets from the individual debt ratio of local government units as an element to improve debt repayment and extends the debt limit from 3 to 7 years. During the debate, no proposals were made regarding the possibility of rejecting this law and I recommend that the High Senate adopt this law without amendments. Mr Marshal, is this the second part of the legislative initiative to be mentioned at this point? [[There'll be a separate point. Now we decide to introduce...]] I understand I'm just here to tell you what the initiative is. This is a legislative initiative... [[Now all we're gonna do is decide to enter.]] ...on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. This is the legislative initiative of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senators of the rapporteurs... to the Senator of the rapporteur... [[The voice from the room: Not only, because also to the representative of this...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the hall: To all the senators mentioned here.]] Then I'll replace all those senators. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[A voice from the hall: Because apart from Senator Gadawada...]] I exchange senators who can be asked in addition to Senator Gadawada: Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Senator Florek is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u45	Mr. Marshal, first question. We are hearing here about a legislative initiative to amend the Real Estate Management Act, a very important, very important one. I'm told that even the printing, as we've heard, is already on the website, but I haven't read what this initiative is yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe... My question is: why is this done at such a rate? Why is this change still to be made at this Senate meeting? I understand what you're talking about, but we stopped discussing a point that has nothing to do with what we're discussing right now. I do not know where this came from, why such a discussion was allowed at all, and especially about Senator Bierecki, who came up with this initiative. After all, this law that we are pursuing has nothing to do with changing eternal use. I understand that you are now starting some kind of campaign, completely meaningless, because it is impossible, without consultation, without checking it, to make proposals that are still to be decided at this meeting. I can already see the colossal errors that are in this record that you are proposing. It's just not acceptable. Do you want to embarrass yourselves? Do you want to make a scandal by introducing this amendment to the bill at this meeting? Thank you. [[Rules of procedure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u46	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I understand it's not a question of the law itself, it's a trial... [[Mode.]] ...or mode. It's in accordance with the article. 69, because there was a need for a change going beyond the matter of the law, i.e. beyond the matter of the law that I had just tabled. If, in the course of the work on the Law adopted by the Sejm, the committee sees the need for legislative amendments going beyond the scope of the Act under consideration, it may, together with the report on the Law, submit a proposal for a legislative initiative together with the draft legislation concerned, and I have done so herewith.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u48	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria... [[I'd like to ask you one more question.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u49	I'd like to ask. So... Of course, I know the rules and what you quoted, too. But all I'm saying is when this initiative... Because I understand that this initiative can be taken. Only when the Senate takes care of this initiative, because this is a fundamental question: in a month, in 2 months, in 3 months, when the opinions of local governments will be prepared, etc.? When are we going to do this initiative? [[Five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u50	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u51	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, at this Senate meeting. [[Oh, my God.]] [[It's just a scandal, that's all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u52	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have no doubt as to the rules of procedure, we are as much in the rules of procedure for this initiative. However, I would like to ask the Senator rapporteur to bring us closer in such simple soldier words as this amendment is about, because not everyone is clear about how important this is because of social expectations and what this proposed initiative to amend the Real Estate Management Act is about. Thank you. [[It's at a different point...]] [[And is the debate at all...]] [[You want to introduce...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u54	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I would very much like to reply, but here I would already enter into the scope of discussing the law itself, and we are at the moment when we are just making a decision. Or not about proceding. I am therefore not entitled to this right now. Let me just say in brief that this initiative is intended to regulate certain speculations regarding the granting of discounts and interest rates on this. But I wouldn't want to extend it, because I'm not entitled to present it to the High Senate right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u56	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Were the substantive issues discussed at the committee meeting or just formal issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u57	Yes, Mr. Marshal, it was very widely discussed. [[I'm the one who would ask...]] It was very widely discussed, very widely presented, also with all the arguments that had been made earlier at the meeting of the Finance and Treasury Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u58	You have the right to present what was at the committee meeting. Of course, you may not be doing this, but I don't think the senators had time to get acquainted with this change. I would ask you to present this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u59	The bill has its own print, and any senator can read it. These are three articles, very concrete, very unambiguously sounding. I would not like to go beyond my powers, Mr. Marshal, and therefore I will not discuss this law at this very moment. [[But we don't know anything...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u60	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u61	Mr. Marshal, we're proceeding. We have a Senate agenda. The point we're discussing right now is the law on amending the Finance Act and some other laws, third paragraph. During the committee meeting, the issue of initiative came up. You have presented this initiative, so of course you can continue, you can prepare, you can do a second reading. But we're working on print number 1048. I'd like to know if we're investigating whether or not we've started investigating a completely different bill? [[This has nothing to do with...]] Are we gonna finish this bill first, and then you're gonna decide if we're gonna proceed at that meeting on that bill, or are we not going to proceed on that bill? [[The same one.]] Because there were supposed to be questions, there has to be a discussion, and you're going into a completely different topic right now, you're going away from this important bill, and you're moving it all towards perpetual usage charges. So what kind of bill are we investigating right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u62	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In view of the fact that we are proceeding on Print Act 1048, I have avoided explanations and discussions, debates on the law which is an initiative of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would like to recall this again and stress that I am here and answer as rapporteur any questions concerning the Law on the revision of the Public Finance Act. [[That's 1048 A and B.]] 1048, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u64	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm not getting into the substantive assessment of this project because there was no time. At least for those who do not work in industry committees To review all these proposals. However, it is controversial, one can say, the fundamental opposition, the pace of proceding, and in particular that there is no vacathio legis, that the law is to enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. It's not war mode. There's no disaster, there's no war, there's no danger of such unprecedented speeding. [[It's beneficial.]] What are the reasons behind this being carried out in such instant mode and voted out?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u66	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u67	Such a charge was not brought at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation... [[What do you mean it didn't fall?]] About the 1048 printing bill, because we're in this... [[We're talking about an initiative...]] This is... For now, we are talking about amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. [[The senator was talking about a legislative initiative...]] About the legislative initiative... We're not, again, at this point. I am obliged to report to the High Senate that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation has come up with such an initiative at its meeting today. First, here in the Senate, there will be a vote on extending the agenda and bringing it to the table. And it will be discussed in plenary at this point. If accepted, it will be directed to further proceding in the Seym and again in the Senate. So that we don't limit that possibility here... I have provided the High Senate with full information about who is leaving with this initiative and in what manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u68	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This legislative initiative was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Earlier, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we also considered this issue, even yesterday and this morning. There's been a lot of discussion about this. The conclusion was this. And that was the minister's position, which I understand is the government. That there is no need to present this to the High House. What has changed since around 9 a.m., from today's meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance until 1 p.m., because the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was probably at 1 p.m. or at 12 p.m. that this initiative needs to be implemented? Especially since the minister... There was no minister responsible for this legislative initiative, and the finance minister did not speak at all at the meeting of the finance committee. So what happened that you are here with this initiative, and your minister, from the PiS government, is sort of an adversary to this... [[You want the senator to explain that?]] Yeah, 'cause we need to know why. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u70	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode. Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode...]] Wait, wait, wait. [[As chairman of the budget committee, I am obliged...]] [[But correcting what?]] But did your name come up? Your name wasn't on it. It didn't come up. [[...to correct the false information given by Senator Kleina.]] Okay, Senator, the rapporteur will answer and I'll let you speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I did not attend the meeting of the Finance Committee, I am not a member of the Finance Committee, and it is therefore difficult for me to refer to the arguments that were put forward at the meeting of this Committee. I can relate, I can provide information, full information from the work on this law in the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which I hereby do. That's one point. The second point, related to the Minister's position. I can't relate to that... I think it is Mr President, Senator Bierecki, who can answer this question because he was holding this meeting. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that this is an initiative of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Senate and committees can take such initiatives and we have taken such an initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u72	Senator Grzegorz Bierecki in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u73	Yes. I would like to correct the information given by Senator Kleina that the minister's position was negative... [[It's not negative, it's just... the minister said there's no need for this initiative.]] That position wasn't expressed, there wasn't a government position yet this morning. Minister Soboń, who participated in the morning meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, informed me that during the debate in the Senate on this bill, on this initiative, he would present the position of the government, he would have it. [[But that's not a correction for what I said.]] I know what the proposal for this report is and I am encouraged by this proposal. But I can't reveal it yet. For further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question, a request that you possibly correct my thinking, tell me if I'm right or wrong. Namely, this initiative, which, I understand, will be complex, and I hope it will be adopted by the Senate. It is a tribute to the fact that in the capital city of Warsaw there was a change between the resolution which was taken before the municipal elections, concerning 98% discounts in the case of urban land when it comes to converting perpetual use into full ownership, and... Now it's going to be 60%. Since that date, many citizens, residents of Warsaw, have obtained new valuations of the property on which their building or apartment is located, but it did not appeal, did not exercise the right of appeal, which had expired due to the assumption that, thanks to the 98 percent discount, even such a change in the value of the property, from which the perpetual use charge is charged, would not be so important from the point of view of their pockets. And at the moment when this resolution was adopted, when the amount of the discount was changed to 60%, on 13 December... So far, there is a state that this resolution is in force for the time being. Perhaps tomorrow at the town council meeting it will be changed. In any event, the situation of these people has been made twice worse by the fact that, first of all, they would have a lower percentage than the original decision of the City Council, and secondly, the fee would have been calculated on a much higher amount, which would have been valued after October 2018. Is this the reason for the initiative we are talking about right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u76	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator, that's right. In addition to what you have just said, Mr Senator, this initiative also includes other units of local government. In short, we want to regulate this issue systemically, and we also want to make sure that such changes do not occur in such an extra-short, extraordinary mode. That is why this initiative must be reviewed quickly in order to put an end to the situation that we are colliding with here in the capital city of Warsaw, so that it does not move to other cities as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u78	Good. Thank you very much, Senator... [[Wait a minute, I volunteered...]] No, no... In a minute, okay? In a minute. [[But...]] Mr. Senator, in a minute. The printing was delivered at 1:58 p.m. The senators did not have the opportunity to read the print. As a result, I am declaring a recess until 3 p.m. And then we'll get back to the discussion. [[The voice from the hall: But at 3:00 p.m., there was supposed to be a break.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: until 4:00 p.m.]] Which one? [[Voice from the room: until 4:00 p.m.]] Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 22 to 16 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u79	I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that after considering the third point, we will proceed with the examination of the twelfth point, i.e. Act amending the law on international agreements. Then the order will be implemented in accordance with the order previously announced. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that the report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, print No 1048 C, and the committee's request for a legislative initiative on the draft law, contained in print No 1063, were presented prior to the interruption of the proceedings. In addition, the senators had the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteurs of the committee. I would remind you that after hearing the request, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. We therefore proceed to the vote on the introduction to the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. 62 senators voted, 57 senators were in favour of the second reading of the bill, 2 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has supplemented the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. This will be item 18 on the agenda. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Tomasz Robaczyński, wish to speak on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: No.]] The Minister doesn't speak. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Florek.]] Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The aim of the Act is to strengthen the legal mechanisms for improving the financial security of local government units, to enable restructuring of the debt of local government units, to clarify the provisions on the debt of local government units and to regulate the resolution procedures. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So the purpose of the law is to reduce and monitor the level of debt of local government units, i.e. The law allows e.g. debt restructuring. And this is a very important bill, and probably at this point we could say that we are all in favour of this law, that we would vote in favour, just like in the Sejm, and there would be no doubt. But what happened during the process on this bill? On the pretext that this law did not go to one committee, to the committee of national economy, there was a meeting of the committee of national economy. It turns out that at this meeting you discussed changes to the Real Estate Management Act concerning the use of perpetual local land, above all. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which we are investigating, this third point, has absolutely nothing to do with what you discussed at the committee meeting, has nothing to do with it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And you guys had a discussion there, not much of it, you presented a project... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet because we can't hear the senator, there's too much murmur in the courtroom. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.]] ...you have presented the bill. According to the rules in the committee's report, of course you can... But such a way of proceding that from hour to hour and so on, that's probably another world record... But the committee rapporteur mentioned, he said about this project, which is tantamount to the fact that we have already had our first reading of this law, that in a moment, after the extension we have made, there will be a second reading of this law behind us. Well, ladies and gentlemen, probably in a minute, because I have 10 minutes, I'm going to refer to this project as well, how it looks. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the pretext of all this? The pretext is this. This is the case in the explanatory memorandum. That some municipalities have adopted resolutions on the modification of discounts, etc. I do not know if any municipality has made such a decision in addition to Warsaw, but that is what you wrote in the Act. What's the matter? It's just that you want to do a show and a circus here. Well, the guardian of the law, the greatest guardian of the law, Senator Bierecki, did a press conference and spoke at this conference about how bad this self-government is, how he wants to change these discounts. And we, ladies and gentlemen, have all voted together not so long ago. As I recall, it was probably July 20th, yes, July 20th this year. On the law on the conversion of perpetual land to residential land from perpetual use into property. We did a revision of this law at the last meeting, which was a week ago. And what, ladies and gentlemen, have we passed there? The increase in the State Treasury's land will amount to a maximum of 60%. Maximum, still under conditions that once, and if 2, 3 years, it falls and so on... We were talking at the time, I was talking about it myself: why just for a year, and why not a bigger one... Turns out you didn't mind that it was the same... And I'm going to give you a simple example of 2 plots of land next to each other or even a building that is located on 1 plot, a residential block where a lot of people live, fees for perpetual use in the event that this part of the building is... Because the building can be located e.g. on two plots. And now it's going to be that in the case of a plot that's on the State Treasury, you can get a discount of up to 60%. But where the government is, you want to introduce 99%. I'm sorry. Why would I do that? Why don't you just call it even? There will be an amendment, and you will have a chance to see it in a moment. Where money is concerned, government revenue, this country... This bill that we're investigating today is talking about the government's income, and here's where you want... And as far as the State Treasury's income is concerned, it's only 60%. Not anymore, because it wasn't the Treasury's money, it was local government. And of course, the introduction of the project in this mode, such a discussion... And now, ladies and gentlemen, a draft of this bill. Well, an outrageous project... [[But it's not...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have the right to speak because it involves... You introduced this country into the bill, contrary to appearances, when there was no connection, just discounts for perpetual use. You did it! And now don't defend me that I'm going to talk about this bill as well. It's your fault. And for that you will be accounted for in my opinion. I know what this is about. [[The senator doesn't know the law...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, the senator is entitled to a ten-minute speech...]] I have the right, yes. [[...on any subject related to the proceedings.]] And now we have an initiative on this item, Senator. We have your initiative, which has already passed the first reading and to which there is no opinion. And this bill is outrageous. Why? I'm telling you this because I'm an asset valuer, a person who values land that knows how to do it, and knows what it says. You don't know what you're doing. Someone told you to, someone brought this to you. 'Cause I don't think you wrote it yourself. Someone brought you this bill, someone dropped it off for you, and you're supposed to process it. Do it. Set it up. Beautiful and nice. Then we'll be paying your bills for it. I can see you're gaining momentum because something's up, so you want to do it as soon as possible. This bill will be processed in the Seym in January; here are such records that in a year's time these changes will be allowed to enter... But, ladies and gentlemen, first thing. This is the reference of the annual fee for perpetual land use, land property to housing in the region concerned. I've done it myself when it comes to indicators, and so on, I know what it looks like. It's a reference... Well, why don't you apply it, for example. For the price of shoes? To the price of the electricity increase? Because it's the same thing. This has nothing to do with this. This has absolutely no connection to what you're doing. It's all bullshit and nothing else. Yeah, but somebody wrote it down like that. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, these discounts, etc. Well, the voivodship can determine a higher percentage. There's no limit here. He can do it today, too, and you're doing it here. I'm gonna talk about it tomorrow when we're working on this bill, but think about what you're doing. Such throwing, such a way of proceding is really unacceptable. I've always tried to speak very calmly so far, but today... Well, today I don't have the words. This way of proceding, what you're doing is outrageous. This is the kind of scandal that hasn't happened before. You can't make a drop like this, which is so important to local governments, without discussing with the local government, without any agreement. Doing something like that... well, that's unacceptable. [[Applause]] I'm going to talk about how we're going to be able to talk about it again. [[That's not true! It's not...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're gonna have to talk about how she's gonna be. And don't bother me. So once again, I would like to point out to you that we have tried today on something that had no connection to the law at all. You've made the drop that someone brought you, and you want to bring it in. You're here to say that some kind of halo, you're doing all this with the senator... I call you so pretty a lawman, because I see that you want to be the person who cares about it, so those poor self-governments aren't the ones who want to eat everything. Because they're just looking at each other and they just want to get as much money as possible. This is... looking at what you've done with the bill, with a bonus on the State Treasury land and what you're doing here right now... Well, it's just a scandal. That's inequality. Don't you understand that? Isn't that clear and obvious? Don't laugh, Senator, because that's the truth. [[I'll answer you right away.]] This is outrageous. What you did today, too. [[I'll answer you right away.]] Good. In that case, there will be an opportunity to discuss and discuss this point further. If you introduce what is written here, I am telling you today that this is going to be a big scandal, nothing more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u81	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I wasn't going to speak because we're on the third point, but since Senator Florek, during the discussion on the third point, has taken up the subject of the act, which will be at the eighteenth point... [[The voice from the hall: You have taken it.]] ...and which is the result of the use of the regulation, because there have been completely new circumstances, and the Senate has the right of legislative initiative, and has made use of it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... An appropriate project has been submitted. I do not want to talk about the details of this project right now, there will be a time when we will be at point 18 and we will be discussing it, but I would like to defend the principle that the Senate has the right to react to the situation that exists because the situation is dynamic. And we know this very well, because in public space for several days there has been a lively discussion about the height of discounts in the capital city of Warsaw. And it can be said that the situation is as follows: that the government of Law and Justice tried to face a certain heritage of the Polish People's Republic and communist times, namely the formula of perpetual use. This perpetual use was part of communist policy and created a kind of very specific lease for people who wanted to be owners of a building or an apartment or a garage or any building property, but did not have a legal title to the land property on which it was or was to be placed. Thus, the 1961 Law, amending the provisions of the Civil Code, introduced the formula of perpetual use. The follow-up to these cases was raised after 1989. Unfortunately, none of the governments after 1989 decided to organise their ownership relations as a whole. I'll tell you more... [[But that doesn't work either.]] ...may be real estate which is owned by the municipality, may be real estate which is owned by the State Treasury and to some, and to others property may be justified claims of persons who have grounds for such claims. And that's why this idea to start at least with perpetual use, to sort things out. This was the idea of the July 2018 Act. What was the problem? At that time, the government tried to establish uniform rules for the reduction of the government's shares in agreement with the local government. These talks did not work, and therefore the government, which is the owner of the real estate, which is referred to as the State Treasury Real Estate. I'm consciously using the word "manager," so I don't go into the complexities of property rights anymore. It adopted a 60% discount if the citizen wanted to transform his/her use and submit an appropriate application. It may benefit from such a reduction if, at one time, this amount is charged for the perpetual use charge. And that was the bill. In the meantime, local governments have solved this in different ways on their land. Some gave a large increase, others a little smaller. This situation in the country varies. Before the election... And that's why I asked Senator Gawada. Before the elections, we faced such a situation that in the capital city of Warsaw a resolution was adopted, supported by the councillors of the Civic Platform, as I recall, it was taken unanimously. That someone would be able to benefit from a 98-percent increase if they applied for it. Then, after the election, on 13 December, it turned out that this resolution had been amended. The city has proposed it's going to be 60%. and only if you pay in the first year, and if someone can't raise such huge resources, they won't have that physical opportunity, and he'll want to pay it in the second year, he'll already have 50% increases, in the next 40% etc., i.e. adopted such a leap construction of this resolution. But what happened in the meantime, what is forgotten in all this discussion? In the meantime, Senator Florek, as an asset valuer, has exercised his authority, should know, because local governments have the right to do so. The value of the land on which the real estate is located has been valorized. And what were the citizens doing? Citizens... Here's another word. If someone paid for the perpetual use fee e.g. The increase in these fees, even several times in the case of medium-sized premises, could have been 200.300 zł. This was, of course, lawful, only that citizens, relying on this 98 percent discount, did not benefit from the possibility of appealing against the administrative decision to increase this fee. Therefore, if we had not accepted 'Cause this case didn't show up... That is why I am saying that this amendment has emerged as a result, because the situation is dynamic. And we could have dealt with such a situation that if the City Council of Warsaw had not amended the resolution tomorrow, the citizen would have a sense of double-crossing, because... [[Twice.]] Yes, twice, twice, because the value of the property on which it pays the perpetual use fee has increased, so this amount has increased, and instead of being able to benefit from the 98-bonicity, it could benefit from a 60% increase. What does that mean? E.g. poor retired woman And I know that she calculated that she would have converted perpetual use for 200 PLN, and if she accepted a 60% increase and valued the value of the plot it would have been 8 000 200 PLN. 8,000 That's the difference! It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'm positive about that. That President Trzaskowski announced an amendment to this resolution. But the situation is this way. And that's why there's this initiative of a law that's gonna be proceded at point eighteen. I would like the public and the High House to be aware that if there were no such maneuvers I am talking about Warsaw, about the new authorities of Warsaw. It probably wouldn't have been this initiative. But that's the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to speak, too, and it's actually not where we're at... But this first statement by Senator Flork has just made it necessary to speak on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply amazed at what is happening here. It's come... This isn't about heights and sequences anymore, it's about what happened recently, and why we're reacting. There's been some completely amazing, shocking election fraud. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] In October, there are 98% discounts in Warsaw , and in the case of long-term perpetual use of more than 50 years of age, of 99%. Elections are held, one month passes, and the discounts are set at no, ladies and gentlemen, 60%. This resolution is more extensive: 60% then, when he who turns perpetual use into property Well, let me put it this way. He pays right away this year. And if there's no money and he wants to pay later, then in the second year it's 50%. , in the third 40% , in the fourth 30%, in the fifth 20% And in the sixth year, 10%. Such a discount will be given to those affected by this transformation by the city of Warsaw. So let's not talk about 60%, because it falls with the next years to 10% of 98% or 99%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a screaming injustice towards the people concerned. By counting it into money. It's not known exactly, because it's not known at what point these people are going to transform. They are huge billions, they are several billion zlotys. So much money is simply fooled by the people of Warsaw. So what are we dealing with here? With the voice of outrage. I see it as a classic scream lift by a thief who screams to catch a thief! I mean, it's not like it's anything. I'm totally shocked by this situation. Instead of sitting quietly and adopting an amendment that will stop this... Well, in the end, it will turn out that this election fraud will simply fail, and people who are dissatisfied or dissatisfied will simply be less. Instead of just sitting there quietly, the state says there's some kind of breach of procedure here. First of all, there is no breach of procedure Everything is done according to procedure. And secondly, we're just in a moment that requires immediate response. And that's what this initiative is. The reaction, the dedication of justice to the people concerned, who, as Senator Jackowski rightly pointed out, were placed in some strange, incomprehensible place for the whole world, such as perpetual use, which the world does not know. Let's note that even the term "bonifikat," which somewhere in it has something like a gift, because a bonus is some kind of addition, some kind of grace. It is absurd because, in fact, perpetual use, ladies and gentlemen, is limp property. After all, these people feel like they own the real estate they own. And it was actually supposed to be a certain conversion of this lame property into normal property, because we're going to normal. I call on all of us here to think about what our attitude toward all of this is. Now that we're back to normal, let's do it together, not... And if someone made a terrible mistake or a dirty thing by calling things by name Well, we're gonna have to unscrew it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u85	You have a voice, Senator Florek. Going twice, five minutes. [[Florek on his knees will be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u86	That's how the senator tells me to apologize... [[Get out of the bleacher.]] ...for mistakes, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, from what I hear... Mr. Senator, what are you saying? Well, really, ladies and gentlemen, isn't this coming to you? Perpetual use, you can't stand it. Ask Senator Jackowski, he knows more about the complicated operation. You said, Senator, that perpetual use is not known anywhere in the world. But there's a usage. And here we are. Perpetual use has something to do with use, and I'm not gonna explain it. So it's hard, and we can't take it. There have already been several approaches when it comes to abolishing perpetual use in the case of land built in housing or intended in the plan... There were a few approaches. I used it 10 and 15 years ago, too. For free from the eternal... 99% I did. I used that right, too. This isn't the first law that's here. And Senator Jackowski said that the government was trying to talk to the local government and it wasn't agreed... Well, it was probably difficult to agree, because in general local governments give a very high percentage, most local governments give 95% This was 98%. And what did you propose in the Act as regards the State Treasury land? 40%. So it was hard to make it the same... [[60%.]] 60% increases, 40% for payment. So it was hard to agree, and there's no reason to be surprised. When it comes to updating fees, it's... Yeah, you can do an update no more than every three years. There's a whole procedure, an operation that costs money. This may not always be worthwhile, for the surgery is often more expensive than what may be achieved. Therefore, local governments, but also the Treasury... Neither does the Treasury. If you look at the situation with regard to the State Treasury land... But now it's called a topic: yeah, 98%. in Warsaw... And now you all want to hit Warsaw because they wanted to adjust 98% there. to the bill you proposed and voted for, the state, because I didn't vote for it then. To equalize it... It's like I said. There are two land adjacent to each other, one is self-government, and the other is the Treasury. And one has a 60% discount. And the other 98%. It's supposed to be right. It's so nasty, it's just an approach... And that doesn't bother you in any way. What's the update look like? How is all this carried out? That's what procedures are for. Then the local government makes decisions about the increase it can agree on, etc. The city of Warsaw made such a decision. The government must also look at income, etc., but here it came to the conclusion that it did not... This is where he came back to this level of 98%. , hoping you'll come out with an initiative And this proposal today will be our amendment to this And that we will also join the Land of the State Treasury with these 98% And that's it, and that's it. I hope that this time you will vote so that there is equality, that both the land of the Treasury and the local government... will be equalized and so that it will be equal. Then there will be no discussion and there will be no need to create a complicated bill that will cause... You'll see, as far as local governments are concerned, you'll find out next week what kind of storm this is going to be, what it's going to look like. Because this bill is unacceptable, it is incompatible with the constitution, for example. It goes back to October 4th, etc. What you want to do is unacceptable. But we'll have the opportunity to point out what you've done, just like the previous law did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u87	You have a voice, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Briefly. We're talking about a difficult topic. The hypocritical decks we're meeting in today's speeches forced me to perform. One of my esteemed speakers said that a terrible thing happened, that he didn't keep his promises, etc. So listen to me: [[Senator Tomasz Grodzki plays from the tablet the statements of Beata Szydło: 500 PLN per child per month, 500 PLN per child, 500 PLN per child!]] Every single one of them! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The difference is that President Trzaskowski, who realized that someone maybe a little bit, as the young people say, let in raspberry, withdraws from it after a few days, and single mothers still have no money today, the first children still have no money today. So let's not talk about keeping our promises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u89	Senator Jackowski's voice is yours. [[Voice from the O.R.: Second time.]] Second time. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Here's what I'm gonna say. I agree with Senator Flork that when it comes to State Treasury land, and I say this as a licensed real estate manager... [[Me too.]] Yes, sir. I know the senator is... As regards the update of the valuation of the value of the property of the State Treasury, I would say that these properties are much more undervalued than local government property, and these updates are usually performed less frequently, statistically speaking. But I'd like to bring up a second case... [[It's different, because that's what the old men do on behalf of the Treasury.]] I would like to point out that during the debate on the revision of the resolution of the capital city of Warsaw there were also such voices, it was motivated so that it is necessary because it is connected with the implementation of the budget of the capital city of Warsaw. But it turned out that the project of the budget of Warsaw's capital city was counted with this increase of 98%. And in this discussion, we must also remember all of this. Once again, this bill is not easy. I'm addressing Senator Flork, who is a professional and knows exactly what it looks like. However, it is a fact that a large part of the population I'm talking about the capital city of Warsaw. The decision to increase the fees for perpetual use... I do not claim that they were without a legal basis, because of course they had a legal basis, they were preserved procedures, and I absolutely do not question that. But from a social point of view, it looked like if someone paid the amount of x and found out that from next year he would pay the amount of 4 times x or 5 times the x, because also such situations took place in the case of this update, so it just feels that this is some injustice. This is, of course, a subjective feeling of a person who may not know the legal situation, the possibilities in this regard. This is perhaps the negligence of the municipality authorities, which should carry out valuation updates every 3 years. In any event, I believe that... regarding the introduction of point 18 on the agenda, the state voted in favour. At least that was the result of the vote I saw on the board. So I don't really understand the dispute we're having right now. I hope that, as far as the substantive details discussed in this discussion are concerned, we will be talking at the right time, i.e. when we are discussing item 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u91	You have a voice, Senator Comfort. [[Voice from the room: It's not at this point.]] [[I'm quitting.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on international agreements. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1039, and the report of the committee In print No 1039 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats or move your calls to the lobby. Thank you. The senator has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Senate! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union of 12 December 2018 on the amendment of the Law of 14 April 2000 on international agreements. The Act amending the law on international agreements is a project submitted by the President in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was adopted by the Sejm at its seventy-third meeting on 6 December 2018: 422 Members voted in favour of the Act, 3 against, 5 abstentions. The amendment solves the problem which arose as a result of the fact that the provisions of the current law allowed for the loss of force of existing international agreements only as a result of termination. The consequence of this provision was the absence of a legal delegation to declare the expiry of an existing international agreement if there was another reason for the termination of the agreement, e.g. the absence of your successor to the international agreement so far. It should be noted that Poland is bound by the Vienna Convention, which provides for other times when the international agreement expires. The Senate Legislative Office at the committee meeting suggested one amendment not substantive but technical, relying on the principles of legislative technique. The Commission was 5 votes in favour, 2 against, and 1 abstention was adopted by the Senator without amendment and recommended that the High Senate accept it without amendment. I would add for justice that these two votes against and 1 abstention were not the result of This is what I have concluded from the discussion, from the opposition to the matter of the law, only from the recognition of this 1 minor legislative amendment as correct and worthy of introduction. So that I can think that the committee unanimously supports the substantive provisions of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the president. Undersecretary of State at the President's Office, Minister Anna Surówka-Pasek, has been authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State of the President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Act, which is proceded by the High House, is of a technical nature. First of all, it serves to resolve certain doubts which, under the International Agreements Act, may give rise to the only regulated way in which Poland may cease to be a party to an international agreement, namely its termination. This type of regulation is too narrow - we take into account the regulations resulting from the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which the Republic of Poland has been bound since 1990. The submission submitted by your President was the result of some difficulties which arose in connection with the practice of the need to announce in the Official Journal that certain international agreements no longer apply. The specific case which was used to write this legislative initiative concerned visa agreements, specifically agreements with Austria, Sweden and Romania, which expired by a joint decision of the Contracting Parties as a result of the fact that, at a later date, the same countries concluded agreements on exactly the same matter, but they were incompatible with previous contractual arrangements. The problem arose as to how to end the term of contracts and announce it. In view of the fact that the International Agreements Act did not provide for any other procedure and that these agreements could not be terminated because the States Parties agreed otherwise, an initiative was created in the President's Office to regulate these issues. I am talking about the expiry of international agreements once the States have mutually agreed that the agreements no longer apply, because there are other new agreements that deny the provisions of previous agreements. Also due to the lack of the subject matter of the international agreement, the agreement may cease to apply in the Polish legal order. This is a very important initiative. It will allow to resolve any legal doubts that could arise as a result of the lack of appropriate regulations in the Polish legal system. Therefore, I ask the High House to support the legislative arrangements which the High Chamber is currently seeking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u95	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal was first.]] There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u96	Minister, please explain to me the ratio legis of this law. So far, in a situation where we thought the contract didn't work, or when the legal system changed... This applies to a number of investment security agreements with individual countries. We have entered the European Union, and therefore we have many agreements that we are proceeding with. At the previous meeting there were about 10 such agreements that we made. We have spoken, but through laws, that is, the Sejm and the Senate have decided. Are there, or may exist, in situations that may arise, such as: the termination of a bilateral agreement by the other party, the absence of succession in relation to the contract, the total impossibility of continuing to perform the contract or the total execution of the contract, is not enough for this procedure that we have been applying for many years? That's the first question. And now the second question: who will decide to lose effect on the current international agreement? Because somebody has to decide that if it's not Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u97	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u98	Thank you very much. As for the first question... bilateral agreements, i.e. the so-called. BIT agreements, these are international agreements ratified with the prior consent of the Act. According to Art. 22 Act on international agreements in the current version to terminate such an international agreement, it is necessary to carry out the same procedure as the one which accompanied the conclusion of a given agreement, the binding of Poland in the given international agreement. As these are agreements which, in the light of the current rules, require consent in the form of a law, the High House had to participate in the process of termination of such an international agreement. But the cloud of the problem is what termination is and what effect termination has. When it comes to termination, it is important to bear in mind that the termination works for the future. So we say that only from the moment Poland makes an international agreement, there are consequences connected with the fact that Poland is no longer a party to the international agreement and is no longer obliged to implement its provisions. The second issue is that in order to terminate an international agreement, you have to have a partner. In the case which Mr Senator mentioned here: the lack of succession, i.e. in a situation where there is no state which would be the legal successor of another country with which Poland had an international agreement, will be problematic, because there is no country to which Poland could address a declaration of termination of an international agreement. There are other issues to all of this that, if there are countries that may in some way be considered to be the successors of a country which had previously been bound by an international agreement, most often these countries in bilateral relations They shall determine for what reason such an agreement shall be deemed not to be binding. For example, in 1998 Poland and Armenia agreed that the visa-free travel agreement concluded between the Soviet Union and the Polish People's Republic would cease to apply as a result of the the lack of succession, because Armenia has declared that it does not feel like a continuation of the Soviet Union. In the case of another agreement, which should also be considered non-binding... This is a sanitary agreement signed by the Republic of Poland in 1922 with Romania. The provisions of this agreement can be found in such regulations, which relate to activities carried out at the Polish-Romanian border. Well, there is no Polish-Romanian border. The Council of Ministers, when querying international agreements, is able to determine which international agreements do not apply due to the fact that there is no longer an object for which they would be concerned. The query we received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that there are about dozens of such international agreements which were concluded by the Republic of Poland in the interwar period and which for various reasons Whether due to changes in the state of international law or because the borders of Poland have changed, the technologies which were used to implement certain contractual provisions have changed should be regarded as contracts which no longer apply. Of course, it should be noted that this amended, amended article. 22 each time commands compliance with binding Polish Republic with international law. Here is an indication that the States Parties to the Agreement, as well as what follows from the Vienna Convention... This is crucial in order to be able to determine and indicate when such an agreement ceased to apply. [[The question is... is the marshal continuing?]] [[I didn't get the answer to the second question.]] [[Please.]] But I was just saying... You asked the marshal a question about who decides. And I told the marshal that these are situations where you communicate with each other and with you... The Polish State, the Government of the Republic of Poland, when communicating with the Government of the State Party, agrees on why the agreement ceased to apply. Of course, this happens when the addressee of such a course is. On the other hand, e.g. in the absence of a successor, a country which is considered to be a successor by the Republic of Poland may declare that it does not feel like a successor. Then the government of the Republic of Poland gets the full right to state that there is therefore no addressee, there is no counterparty to this international agreement, and asks for an announcement that such an international agreement has ceased to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u99	Minister, I'm very sorry, but I want to clarify the question, and I want to get a straight answer. Okay? In the event of termination of the contract under the law, the matter is clear. The Sejm and the Senate decide, when they adopt such a law, that they pronounce such an agreement and such. [[Allowing the president...]] Allow the president, of course. The president's doing this job technically. And which authority in Poland decides to lose effect of the existing international agreement? That's what I'm talking about. The Prime Minister, the President? Who? If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for a strict answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u100	Mr. Marshal, I'll say it again. There's a mix-up here. As for the termination of the international agreement, I would like to remind the marshal of something that the Marshal certainly knows that it is not the Sejm and the Senate that are declaring the international agreement, because it is the government that is responsible for conducting internal and foreign policy. [[But the Sejm and the Senate are passing this bill.]] The Sejm and the Senate are adopting a law which is a certain stage of the procedure related to the termination of the international agreement. This procedure consists, among other things, of. that the government, having already had this agreement, having approved the President of such a law, is asking the President to terminate a specific international agreement. Once again, I would like to stress that, as regards the issue of the expiry of the international agreement, the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties points out a number of different ways. The Council of Ministers shall conduct internal and foreign policies, the Council of Ministers shall also verify which contracts and to what extent they should be considered as no longer binding. If the Council of Ministers discovers the existence of such an international agreement, it shall first examine whether all the conditions are met. Or any of them resulting from the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties, which allows further steps to be taken to declare that this agreement does not apply. The Council of Ministers, after establishing the facts regarding the validity of the international agreement, takes another step in the form of addressing the President of the Republic of Poland If the contract was announced in the Official Journal of the Laws, the President of the Republic of Poland will announce that this international agreement is no longer in force. This is the case with those contracts that have been announced in the Official Journal of the Laws. [[Thank you, Minister. Now it's clear to me.]] Now it's been precise. [[And precise, and clear. I understand the difference between the termination of the contract in this current procedure and the conclusion that the contract has expired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u101	The question is Senator Augustine. No, he quit. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Perhaps these doubts of Marshal Borusewicz, which I, too, in a sense, share, were due to the fact that in the law we amend is the procedure for concluding international agreements and their termination, and there is no proper procedure for losing power. And maybe that's what these doubts come out of. At least such a procedure should be defined by referring to some of the preceding articles.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u104	I answer the senator's question. The problem is that the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which Poland has been bound since 1990, provided for other generally accepted procedures by which the international agreement may cease to apply It's not just a termination. In turn, the law on international agreements, which is in force in Poland, simply omitted these other ways of losing power in force by international agreements. In this respect, there is a legal gap preventing the confirmation that certain contracts have ceased to apply as a result of circumstances other than termination. I'll go back to the example I gave you here to the marshal. In 1998, when Poland and Armenia agreed on matters relating to the visa-free travel agreement between Poland and the Soviet Union, Armenia stated that it did not feel that it was a success of the Soviet Union. This case has come to fruition with the ordinary case pending before the Supreme Administrative Court. One Armenian citizen did not know that the visa-free travel agreement was no longer in force because it had not been announced anywhere. And for this reason, unfortunately, she was at a very disadvantage. Armenia has made it clear that it does not feel successful in the Soviet Union and that it does not feel like a continuation of the visa-free travel agreement of the State Party. In this particular case, the Supreme Administrative Court recognised in 1999 that it was precisely because of the unfavourable situation in which that Armenian citizen was then found to be present that, although it was not officially announced that this agreement was not in force, that lady had the right to act in this way. If it wasn't announced anywhere, she could go on. enjoy this privilege of visa-free travel. This situation was repeated for another person in 2001. Then the Supreme Administrative Court maintained its earlier judicial line in this regard. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u105	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u106	We don't understand each other. The termination shall be clearly defined in Article. 14 and 15 paragraphs. 1 and 2. This is the procedure. Things like that. the withdrawal of the reservation is also clearly described in Article. 23, but there's no power loss procedure described here. Who even initiates this? Who has the right to do that? We, citizens? Because I'm sure a court order isn't an initiation point. If anything, this procedure must be initiated by someone in the government, maybe by the Foreign Minister. But it's not described here. Please note that termination as one of the forms of loss of power is described here in accordance with Article. Article 22 (2) (b) Article 2 shall apply. 14 and 15 and the loss of power is not. What's the procedure? Just a quick question. It's not a court order that's decisive here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u107	This is due to the fact that it is the Council of Ministers who is responsible for internal and foreign policy. The Council of Ministers periodically makes such inquiries, verifying what international agreements have been concluded over time, whether all international agreements are properly implemented. This is under the supervision of the Foreign Minister. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs notes that there is an international agreement in a particular case which may no longer be applicable as a result of various changes, he shall take steps to verify whether such a situation is actually taking place. That's exactly what I told the senator about discussing this case before the Supreme Administrative Court... This was exactly the same situation when the Polish government took steps to verify whether this particular visa-free travel agreement was in force. At the same time, the government's interest in this matter was driven by the de facto case of a particular man before the Supreme Administrative Court. However, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, as a consequence, the entire government, which conducts internal and foreign policies, is responsible for verifying such issues related to the application of international agreements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u108	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask whether in the text of the project the loss of power is secured in such a way that every time it requires international agreement with a party, either with a successor or an alleged successor of the agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u110	May I? [[Yes, please.]] There is a clear indication in the wording of the statutory provision that all this is to be done in accordance with binding Polish Republic by international law. So every time we have to examine the content of the international agreement, we have to respect the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u111	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u112	The Minister, whether the expiry of the existing international agreement concerns only bilateral agreements or multilateral treaties, agreements...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u113	There's no limit here. As far as these specific agreements are concerned, which are currently being concluded, these are most often bilateral agreements. Mostly. However, there is no limit to bilateral agreements. There is no such restriction in the statutory provision. [[The Treaty of the Union...]] It's a general rule. However, the practice that has been applied recently... Well, it just so happens that most of these contracts are bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u115	In theory, of course, in theory... If someone thought that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union could not be completely... If someone thought that there was no way to continue this agreement If the Council of Ministers had said so, and the president wouldn't mind. Is it possible, in accordance with international law, to terminate such an agreement on the basis of the provisions in question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u116	Mr Senator, I am sure you know very well that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union cannot be denounced without the presence of a State, a member of the European Union, from the Union. These two institutions are interlinked. So... This is the way EU law is constructed, so that in order to denounce the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, one must first stop being a member of the European Union. This is a procedure whereby a Member State must first make a declaration that it wishes to withdraw from the structures of the Member States of the European Union. The next step, forced by EU law in this area, is to start negotiations with a country which has made a declaration of resignation from the European Union. And within two years, an agreement should be concluded between that Member State and the European Union on further principles of mutual functioning. So that it is impossible to conclude that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has ceased to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u117	Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u118	Yes, Minister, the only problem is that if I believe that there is absolutely no way to perform this agreement, then I cannot apply its rules. You say that on the basis of the rules for which I believe that they are impossible, it cannot be said. That's where we're going in circles. I think that's two conflicting statements. [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u119	I'm sorry. Does the Minister have anything else to add on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u120	I just want to answer the senator's question. Mr. Senator should know perfectly well the contents of the article. 22a Act on international agreements, which obliges the Polish authorities to do what needs to be done if Poland wishes to stop being a member of the European Union. [[The senator is trying to find out the instructions because they're going to...]] All you have to do is read the law on international agreements. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u121	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u122	I thank Senator Radziwill for his remarks and for his vigilance... [[I can hear you.]] You should get a plate of an exemplary PiS soldier. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Because we don't want to leave the Union.]] [[Gentlemen! Gentlemen!]] Really. [[I call you gentlemen to order.]] Really, Mr. Senator. Minister, it's a good thing you're solving these doubts. I'm happy for you. But these sequences of speaking out of the European Union are not exactly what you said. Because Britain... [[Voice from the room: He knows better.]] ...by referendum, of course, she has made that decision and will appear. There does not have to be an agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union to make an appearance. We're watching it, and we know it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u123	Mr. Marshal, I'm sure that's... [[So these sequences don't have to be like this.]] Mr Marshal, you are therefore well aware that the United Kingdom's declaration after the referendum on the European Union was the first step towards the start of negotiations on an agreement that will concern the continued functioning of the United Kingdom as a partner this time and not a member of the European Union. And EU law provides that if such an agreement is not concluded within two years, then we will have to deal with what is mediaally defined as a hard way out of the European Union. The State which was a member of the European Union, but did not sign an agreement on further relations with the European Union, simply will not have any agreements governing mutual relations. [[Thank you so much for explaining.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u124	Any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Thank you.]] Didn't anyone sign up for the discussion? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I'm opening a discussion... Oh, I'm sorry. Does a government representative wish to speak on this matter? Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No, thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. Good. Would any of your senators like to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. In light of the above... Oh, for the record, Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs law. The text of the act is contained in print 1054, and the report of the committee In print No 1054 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Colleagues, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 18 December 2018 discussed a draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. These changes come down to one change. The current regulation stated that from 1 January 2019 the delivery documents used to move outside the suspension procedure of excise duty, which were in paper form, were to be in electronic form. Because the market signals were saying that not all companies were prepared for this, the proposal is that for the coming year companies have a choice as to whether they will use paper form or whether they will use electronic form. There were no legislative comments. We've come to the vote. Unanimously, there were 5 senators present, and we voted on this proposal. We are asking the High House to adopt this law. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u126	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. We have a government representative with us today, Mr. Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print 1053, and the report of the committee In print No 1053 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, President Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u127	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Report of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation of 19 December. Opinion to the Law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. Print No. 1053. The law amends Article. 7 point 2 of the Act of 6 June 2018 amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, which amends the Law of 27 April 2001 on the protection of the environment. The amended provision concerns the issue fee and refers to outdated CN codes. The Act will refer to the currently in force classification in the Agreement corresponding to the Combined Nomenclature in accordance with the European Union Implementing Regulation of 12 October 2017 amending Annex I to Council Regulation of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common tariff which entered into force on 1 January 2018. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2019. No amendments were tabled at the meeting. The Act raised no legislative objections. The High Senate is ready to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u128	Thank you very much, Senator! At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I am directing this question to Minister Leszek Skiba. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that for the examination of point six, i.e. Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, we will proceed on the second day of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1055 and the report of the Commission In print No 1055 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. Are you the senator? [[There isn't.]] Well, then we'll just wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the government representative? Who's supposed to be at point seven? Ah, Minister Zielenecki. I'm sure the Minister will be here any minute. The most important thing now is Senator Majer, so we'll wait for a moment. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Is it coming?]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Mr. Senator, we're waiting for you. You're welcome. We have information that the Minister will be here in a few minutes, so I'll ask the senator rapporteur to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2018 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The meeting took place yesterday. The Commission, after hearing the introduction of the Deputy Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr Zielenecki, proposes that this law be adopted. The purpose of the Act amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act adopted by the Sejm is to increase: invalidity pensions for persons completely unable to work up to PLN 1 000 100 per month and for persons partially unable to work up to PLN 825 per month; the lowest pension and survivor's pension up to PLN 1 thousand 100 per month; the basics of invalidity pension up to PLN 2 000 629 17 gr; the amount of pre-retirement benefit up to PLN 1 thousand 140 99 per month, and the pre-retirement benefits reduced up to PLN 570 50 gr. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The proposed amendment introduced a supplement to the article. 5 laws, i.e. the mechanism of price-paying valorization. This means that pensions increase both in percentage and in quota terms. This is an action aimed at increasing pensions for those who receive the lowest benefits from the Social Insurance Fund. There was a discussion at the committee meeting. In general, the validity of the law was not questioned, but information was given that it would benefit from this valorization, which will be carried out since March 2019, over 61% of recipients in the Social Insurance Fund, 100% recipients in KRUS and more than 20% of recipients receiving benefits from the uniform service fund. The increase will also be covered by 100% persons who have social benefits and survivors' pensions. The valorisation and the amendment of this law, in particular the application of this mechanism of price-wage valorisation, is the response of the Government of Law and Justice to the rise in prices and services so that the environment of beneficiaries of pensions can cope more easily with existing domestic situations. The committee's recommendation is that the Senate adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u131	I'm going to ask you a little bit while I wait for the Minister, but about what happened at the committee meeting. Did the committee report on the situation of the Social Insurance Fund as compared to previous years, and whether data were provided as far as wages increased and pensions increased in percentage terms?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u132	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for that question. During the committee meeting there was information that the Social Insurance Fund, especially as a result of the reduction of unemployment, in a situation in which unemployment in Poland is steadily falling... In fact, contributions to the FUS are, I would say, increasing. Right now, with the Social Security Fund, we have a security detail... the data I memorized from the committee's meeting is that it's within 80%. the funds come from the insurance itself, worked out... Minister Zielenecki presented in quite detail the percentages, how the amounts of salaries increase and how the pensions increase. He said it in a very detailed, percentage way, but I'm afraid there might be some mistakes in my notes, which is why I'm proposing this question to the Minister. In any event, the general message from the committee's meeting was: under the conditions we have, the Social Insurance Fund can afford to ensure that people who receive pensions and pensions scheduled for March 2019 increase their pension amounts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u134	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] We'll wait for the Minister for a moment. Okay? Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a three-minute break. Perhaps the Minister will arrive at that time. By 5:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 22 to 17 minutes 25]] The break is over and the Minister is here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Minister has a sense of timing, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House the intention of the Act on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act adopted on 14 December 2018. As regards the scope of permanent changes in the 1998 Pension Act, this scope of changes is limited, limited to the revision of the Article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 pension law, i.e. to changes in the amounts of the lowest pension benefits that will start to apply from 1 March 2019. The most important substantive amendment introduced by this law is contained in Article. 5th Bill. This is a solution which complements the universal mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits enshrined in the pension law, a mechanism based on a percentage of valorisation, price-paid valorisation, a guarantee of payment, a guarantee of an increase of at least 70 PLN in pension benefits. So that this is a kind of correction, supplementing the universal mechanism for the valorization of pension benefits. According to estimates of consumer price indices in 2018, as well as estimates of an increase in average wage in 2018, these are 2 parameters that affect the level of this universal valorisation mechanism as enshrined in the Pension Act next year's valorization will be 103,26%. That is, I stress, the forecast value index. As regards the actual parameters that affect the valorisation rate, i.e. The price index of consumer goods and services, as well as the average wage growth rate in 2018 - these real parameters will be known at the turn of January and February, and then we will know how high the percentage valorization rate will be. Regardless of the amount of this indicator, we propose in this Act that the amounts of pension benefits covered by this valorisation mechanism increase by at least PLN 70. This is a solution addressed to persons entitled to pension benefits relatively lower, the so-called. the threshold setting out the categories of persons to whom this solution is addressed, which will benefit from the application of this guarantee, the increase in the amount of benefit under the valorisation mechanism is set at PLN 2 000 147 30 gr. According to today's forecasts, the percentage of the value of the person receiving pension benefits at a level lower than PLN 2 000 147 30 gr will be increased at a level higher than that resulting from the application of this percentage value ratio. With regard to the circle of persons, recipients expressed as a percentage, who will benefit from the introduction of this guaranteed amount of the increase in pension benefit, under the scheme of universal social security, which is administered by the Social Insurance Institution of the Social Security Office, the solution will be 61% Recipients. As regards persons covered by the agricultural pension scheme, the structure relating to the amount of pension benefits financed by the CRUS is such that this solution will benefit all pensioners who receive benefits under the agricultural scheme in fact. 100% recipients receiving benefits in the agricultural system will benefit from this solution. As regards persons entitled to pensions in the pension supply system of uniformed services, I am referring here to a system involving both professional soldiers and uniformed officers about 20% recipients receiving benefits from this scheme will benefit from this solution. As regards persons entitled to social benefits, benefits and pre-retirement benefits Because this solution is also addressed to persons who receive precisely those benefits which are not insurance-related, this solution will cover 100% Recipients. All persons entitled to social benefits and benefits and benefits will benefit more from this arrangement than if only the percentage rate of pension benefit was applied to them. If we add up all these categories of recipients, we could say 65%. the beneficiaries will benefit from the introduction of this mechanism to correct the universal mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits. I think it is also worth mentioning the costs of this operation, which will be expected on 1 March 2019. Given the forecast rate of percentage valorization, or 103.26%, we can say that the cost of the same percentage valorization today is estimated at about PLN 6 billion 886 million. If we add to this the cost of supplementing this rate valorization mechanism with a guaranteed increase of PLN 70 and this cost is PLN 1 billion 495 million, the cost of the operation, which awaits us on 1 March 2019, will amount to PLN 8,000 381... [[Voice from the hall: Million.]] ...million zlotys, of course... [[It's a billion-dollar voice.]] Eight billion... Let me repeat: PLN 8 billion 381 million. I think it is also worth mentioning some additional elements accompanying the proposed solution. Such an additional element, which I have already mentioned, is the proposal to increase the amount of the lowest pension benefits. The lowest pensions, according to this law, will rise to PLN 1 000 100. To the same extent, the lowest pensions for total incapacity for work will increase. I would like to remind you that these benefits today amount to PLN 1 thousand 29 80, i.e. a 70-gold increase for beneficiaries receiving pensions and pensions at a level lower than PLN 2 thousand 147 30, I was not quite precise, because people who receive pension benefits at a minimum level will receive an increase of PLN 70 20. As regards the amount of the lowest pension due to partial incapacity for work, these benefits will increase to PLN 825. As for the amount of the pre-retirement benefit after these changes, this benefit will amount to PLN 1 thousand 140 99 gr. The Act also contains a provision amending the Act of 29 May 1974 on the supply of war and military invalids, and provides for an increase of the basics of the invalidity pension for a war or military invalid to the amount of PLN 2 000 629 17 gr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u136	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! Next Christmas, we're probably already thinking about them. They are also thought of by a large crowd of pensioners and pensioners. And since we are sitting before Christmas, we could jokingly begin this speech by having one good and some bad information for them. The bad news is that more money in your wallets will appear at Christmas, only not for this holiday, as promised, because no 500+ bonus is expected. That's not gonna happen. And it was a scam, a promise without covering it. The second information is that, although it is true that the growths that the Minister was talking about And that's the good news. They're bigger than in other years, but they're far from what's going on around them, in all the other groups, especially in the group of workers who get a lot more, the growth is much bigger there. Dear Retirement, pauperisation, or poverty, will be progressing. Compared to workers who have worked hard, much higher corporate income and much higher average wage growth, what the government proposes is half as small, even more than half as small. It was the day before yesterday that the Central Statistical Office showed that wages increased year by 7.7% and exceeded PLN 4.5 thousand, while here these increases, together with these 70 PLN for the groups in the most difficult situation, totaled just slightly over 3.6%. Retired people are among those who aren't wealthy. Their spending, especially on medicines, is enormous and wages continue to rise much faster than pensions. These scissors are opening up, and certainly, compared to the workers, the situation of pensioners is getting worse. Consider, too, that of these 3,6% As much as 2.3% will take inflation. What's left? What's real? So let's call it something. by name: the money that goes into the pensioner's pocket is small, symbolic. It will not compensate for the injustice that this huge difference is, such a small degree of substitution. The Minister, of course, said at the committee meeting that there was a good situation in the labour market and that it was much easier to work for pensioners and pensioners. But let us also remember that only 1/3 of them work. This is a little more than before, but the employment rate of pensioners and pensioners is one of the lower in Europe and is only 33.2% in the 50+ group. Well, there's a slight increase here. And here we have to say that this shows that the decision to withdraw pension reform, to restore the lower retirement age, has a terrible impact and will have a bearing on the material situation of pensioners and pensioners. And the longer job, of course... The Minister agrees and says, well, you can work. Why? Because longer work is higher benefits, higher contributions to the ZUS, which means a chance for higher valorization, even for those who do not work. Meanwhile, just when we have such a good situation on the labour market, you made a move the other way. And here's the situation: 2/3 of pensioners don't work. Ladies and gentlemen, could there be more to be done? In my opinion, I definitely do. I don't know how many years Maybe in a dozen, maybe a few times, there'll be such a fantastic coincidence. Indeed, employment is high, indeed the economy is warmed up, indeed the situation of the ZUS is much better than ever. At the committee meeting, I got the news that during the period of January, October, the increase in the revenue of the ZUS was 9.2%, which in terms of zlotys means almost 13 billion. And the Minister here tells us that all year round Big deal, big effort And that's what we're going to spend on next year's money, 8.4 billion. So it's not any cymes, it's none I don't know what. This is something far below the possibility, below the expectations, below the necessity. That is why I think it is difficult to be satisfied with what the government is proposing in this area, because more can and should be done. How bad the retirement situation is, the Minister said. He was talking about it in a positive sense that this supplement of 70 PLN would be 65% all retired people. But this is also an information for all of us about how low pensions are, because when we think about helping those with the lowest benefits, it turns out it's 65% all retired people. That's why I think standing there is what I'm gonna say. Here in the truth, i.e. Having regard to the situation, given inflation, given the rise in wages, the good situation of the Social Insurance Fund... All this together makes it difficult for this joy before Christmas and for a new year in retirement farms, especially single-person farms. If what we heard at the Economic Committee today confirms is that, although not since 1 January, but in the short term, these requests for an increase in energy prices will have to be considered and will probably be considered positively, a lot of this will have to be spent on current bills, paying higher prices. The most painful part is that below this threshold when it comes to the lowest pensions As the Minister said, there are 183 thousand people at the committee meeting. And those are the ones who unfortunately won't get those 70 zlotys, but they will get a percentage raise. It is a pity that the situation of these people has not been regulated separately and additionally. There are a lot of reasons why they are in such a situation, and it was worth it on this occasion, when the intention of the government was to help the least-endowed, to make this movement and to make this small in relation to the entire group of pensioners also to include the higher population, at least 70 PLN... [[Time's up, Senator.]] I'm just finishing up. ...with raises. [[Very good.]] To put it out, I would like to say that I am happy with what is, but let us remain so convinced that pensioners belong to a much poorer part of the Polish society, that catching up with what is happening with wages, does not act, and even these scissors, despite increases, will spread out. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] You probably need to think about another mechanism in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many sad words and pessimistic words just came out, so I decided to take the floor. The government has prepared a law that increases minimum pensions, increases minimum pensions, a whole range of other benefits, those lowest benefits that are actually the subject of our common concern, even though we are talking about valorization here, not some fundamental increase in benefits... The pension system we have has been in for many years. This is nothing new, the Law and Justice government has not introduced these rules. It's been going on for a long time, and it's hard to expect that at some point, from day to day, we're going to turn it into something that might be our dream, but it can't be realized because of resources that are limited. Here we have heard a lot of diwags about the good condition or good situation of the Social Insurance Fund. Well, it's obviously something you enjoy, but you also have to be aware of the responsibility for what happens next. We know well that nothing that surrounds us At least of these material things It is not eternal, so the economic situation in the labour market, as well as rising wages, is not something that is guaranteed once and for all. You have to be aware that by spending money on the resources we have today, and at the same time ensuring that the level of benefits will be for many years. - Yeah, pretty much always. At least this, and maybe even higher in the future, we make commitments that many experts warn us about. However, we must appreciate the responsibility of the government, which is simply in a situation that is good, stable, doing what we can. You can say that much and that's it. Probably dreams are above that, but these dreams are simply impossible to realize. However, I think it's really worth noticing and enjoying the fact that people taking benefits from the Social Insurance Fund will simply be better. The effort of both the Social Insurance Institution and the government, which meet the expectations of these groups, should be noted here. I think it's something that should just be appreciated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. And there you go, Senator Christopher Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the first speech, it would appear that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki harmed the recipients by making such decisions rather than other decisions on the value of benefits. It's different. As far as I am well aware, over many years this is only the third such valorization, a revolution which takes into account this long-standing demand for valorisation, if not purely quota, at least this mixed nature. I thank you very much for this valorization, because it shows that you can work out solutions that meet Not in the dream range, of course. The expectations and expectations of the recipients themselves, and of the social side, such as the Social Dialogue Council. Minister Rafalska is in constant contact with this body, and it is also thanks to the discussions in this body that such decisions have taken, not other decisions. We must also bear in mind the economies of scale. The Minister spoke about the fact that even such small amounts of increases and advantages are increasing to quite significant amounts, but at the same time they point out how many more recipients are below a certain threshold, which we are already beginning to consider as a certain normality. It was also said that wages are rising, you can say, almost twice as fast as other benefits, especially those from the benefit fund. It's true. This is symptomatic for our economic development. This must also be welcomed, because such economic development, an increasing number of jobs, rising wages systematically in many sectors of our economy. All this leads to the fact that our entire system is also reinforced with concrete money. It must also be borne in mind that the concern of the Government of Law and Justice and generally of Law and Justice as one who took responsibility for the State 3 years ago was also to reduce the retirement age. It is in this area, in terms of improving the lives of Poles, especially those who are over 50 years old, over 60 years old, that is extremely important, but it also requires that this is supported by specific amounts. I welcome this decision. Thank you to the Minister. It will translate into an improvement in the standard of living, after all, a small one, but an improvement in the lives of many millions of beneficiaries. I'm counting on this kind of valorization to be maintained. He will continue to be discussed, because in the next few years he may lead to some level playing field. In the social sense, those whose benefits are quite high, even if their valorisation is only a percentage advantage, have relatively high benefits. Many Poles believe that it would be fairer if the fund that the government spends on valorisation was divided entirely by quota. They often use such a colloquial term that the recipients of the pensioners and the pensioners have the same stomachs. I kind of share that approach. I'm looking Of course, also knowing how much work and discussion it would require, that such an approach and direction, which Minister Rafalska has outlined, are appropriate. I also think that this is the way for Senator Augustine to talk about it as soon as possible. To compensate for the disparities that have been accompanying this part of our society for years. A part that looks forward to a valorization that improves their fate in a more obvious way, that is to say, those recipients. I hope that this year's, or actually the one that will take place from March, the valorization will indicate some directions that need to be followed. This is still a series of actions that the Government of Law and Justice will certainly take, because the disparities still exist between Poland and the Western countries do not only concern the pay sphere but also the non-wage sphere to which pension benefits belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u142	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Maciej Łuczak have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1040 and the report of the committee In print No 1040 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to submit a report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the law adopted by the Sejm on 6 December 2018 amending the Police Act; print No 1040. The Act deals with the introduction of provisions allowing the Police to cover the costs of temporary accommodation of a police officer transferred to another village during the entire period of duty. The project, prepared by the Sejm's Board of Administration and Home Affairs, involves the transfer of a police officer from office to service in another locality with the cost of accommodation in a new workplace. It is therefore necessary to compensate the police for the additional financial burden associated with this transfer. Following the review of the Act on 18 December 2018, the committee asks: The High Senate is to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, it so happens that police laws always go to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, and this time they didn't, this and the next. My question to you is whether or not you talked about... As you just said, the bill is very short, it contains practically one or two opinions that a policeman transferred from office to service in another village, if he has not fired the occupied premises in the previous village, is assigned accommodation according to the applicable standards. The words have been deleted: not more than 2 years from the date of allocation of the temporary accommodation. And that's the only thing that's crossed out, the rest of that sentence remains the same. I'd like to know what the reason is. As I understand it, if someone was in the apartment, they were assigned, and they didn't fire this apartment... If he'd gone somewhere on a delegation and worked there, he'd have been given accommodation for up to two years to... and he had this apartment he was in. Over 2 years means that it can be 5 years, 10 years, there is no limit Or 15 years. I would like to know what was the reason for this change. So far, it's been no more than two years, and now there's no limit. Have you discussed this? What was the reason for this change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u146	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u147	Mr. Senator, there was no such question at the committee meeting, and there was no discussion about it either. I assume that there are simply cases that this service in another village lasts more than 2 years, and that is why it was regulated so. This bill is good for the officers. Those who are already here, so to speak, on some delegation in another village, will benefit because this bill will cover them. That'll be good for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u148	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. We have a representative of the government, Minister Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: Yes.]] There you go, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to state the reasons for the submission, the reasons which the Home Affairs and Administration have found in their opinion. I would like to say that the current wording of the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Police Act provides that the cost of accommodation of a police officer transferred from office to service in another village shall be covered by the police budget for no more than 2 years, as presented. The Act proposes that the costs be covered throughout the service period. There's a reason for that, and the point is that cops sent to another town... In particular, this is about high-skilled officers, police officers who serve at the Anti-Terror Ops Bureau, officers who have been assigned to serve in another village, and are so bound by the duration of their duties in that village. This is very important because the tasks, in particular those tasks that officers carry out, as I mentioned, are highly qualified... Because this solution is addressed in particular to this group of police officers who have specialist knowledge in very narrow areas It's about, as I said, counter-terrorism, but right now it's mostly a fight against cybercrime. And this solution is perfectly justified because we cannot limit the cost-covering for housing purposes only to the period in force at the moment, because the tasks associated with the fight against cybercrime very often go beyond this period, they last longer. I would like to add that the entry into force of the proposed changes will have financial consequences of less than PLN 1.9 million, which is the cost that allows us to continue the tasks. At the moment more than 200, exactly 216 officers are seconded to perform their duties outside the town of residence. I would also like to point out that these changes, which is very important, also meet the demands of environmental police officers, as well as the chief of police. It's just to justify the project. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I absolutely agree with the ratio legis law, but I have a problem reading the content of the transitional article, i.e. Article 2 2. How are we to understand this article? What you say will then be used in the actual layer, i.e. in the implementation of this law. Whether this applies to policemen transferred to another locality, officers who should receive this supplement - Is it a refund? From now on, or... from the moment they were moved? I'll give you an example, 'cause maybe it'll be easier. Someone's been out of residence for five years now, and he's been getting money for two years. Is he going to get this money now, this return, from that point on, or is he going to get it for those three years back, for the time when he wasn't getting it? 'Cause someone like that has a bill on them, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u152	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I think... I want to be clear about the regulations. The transitional provisions do not refer to the regulation or to an agreement concluded with an officer prior to the entry into force of the Act, but to the duration of duties in the place to which it was transferred. In this way, new agreements will be concluded with officers who carry out their duties and will continue to do so until these duties are completed in the village to which they are transferred.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u154	I'll admit I still don't understand. Minister, a simple question... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Renata Jęch: Please, yes.]] An officer has been out of his permanent residence for five years. For 2 years, according to the old regulations, he received reimbursement. Yes? Am I right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: Yes]] For three years he couldn't get that refund because the bill didn't provide for it. And now these officers, in accordance with the interim article, are referred to as: in matters relating to the accommodation costs of police officers transferred ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This Law shall apply. There are two options here, and you have to decide whether this law applies to such officers from that point on, or whether it applies to officers at all, which means you have to return it to this exemplary officer in three years, because he's been out of his regular residence for five years. This is a simple question: a solution more favorable or less favorable?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the transitional provisions of the bill have no retroactive effect. This benefit shall be payable to an officer under the provisions of that law until he has completed his duties in the locality where he is transferred. This law does not act backwards on the basis of a transitional provision. If, as the senator mentioned, the period of transfer to another village was 5 years, then under the provisions of the old law, a policeman was only returned in 2 years. At the moment the limit date is the date of entry into force of this law and the period of the officer's duties in the locality is counted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u157	Senator Wach. Please. [[Voice from the room: No, no. Peter Wach here...]] Peter Florek. I'm sorry. [[No, thank you.]] I'm sorry. This is where the professor sits. Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1057 and the report of the committee In print No 1057 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2018 amending the Police Act and certain other laws; print No 1057 A. The purpose of the Law adopted by the Sejm is to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 December 2017, the signature of Act K 17/14. The regulation concerns the adaptation of the provisions of the amended laws on the definition of search limits and the powers of officers to carry out personal checks. The draft law was proposed by the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The regulations shall comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Court held that the criminal law provisions and the code of conduct for criminal offences in which they provide for the search of a person, without specifying the boundaries of this search, are incompatible with the Constitution. The second category of legislation challenged by the Court are the provisions of the pragmatic laws on Police, Border Guard, Military Commandarmery, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-Corruption Office, the Law on Municipal Guards and the former BOR, now the State Protection Service, and the implementing acts issued on their basis in so far as they entitle officers to control persons without specifying the limits of that control, and in so far as they do not provide for judicial checks on the legality of personal checks. The introduction of the proposed solutions is necessary for the execution of the Court's judgment by determining the extent of the appropriate interference and by introducing judicial review of the legality of the actions carried out. The standard of constitutional protection of freedom will be enhanced. Following a review of the Act on 18 December 2018, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u159	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u160	Thank you. Mr. Senator, the novel in this bill is a preventive check. Could you tell me, did you say at the committee meeting, what is the difference between personal control and prevention? What's the difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u161	Preventive testing is a new institution on statutory grounds. It shall be implemented on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers. I'm not able to give you the date of this regulation right now, but it's based on it... Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time of danger, and I think that this kind of preventive checking on mass events, before entering the stadium or somewhere shouldn't be extremely disturbing. And suing such a thing as checking, searching clothes or something... That shouldn't appeal to the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u162	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. I have a question for you, Minister Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Renata Pzczech: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't hear you. Thank you very much. [[I'll sign up for the discussion.]] For discussion? Good. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal held that, according to C.E.C. there are difficulties in distinguishing between the search of a person and personal inspection that there are no limits to this search and that this is not in accordance with Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 47 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In this Act, novum is the introduction of an authorisation for services in the form of a preventive check. So so far there's been a search, a personal check, and now there's a preventive check. A personal check is a complaint, a complaint for personal check, and a protocol from personal check can also be requested, which, of course, cannot be demanded in the event of a preventive check. Preventive checks are to be carried out by manual checking of the person, his clothing and the elements on the body. But in relation to the detained The previous speaker, the rapporteur, spoke about mass events, e.g. about football matches, about congresses or convoy checks can also rely on, and that is the whole problem, once, the person's demand for a photograph of clothing and shoes, two, the person's removal of clothing, shoes in case of non-redressing, i.e. if I do not undress, I will not take off my clothes, they will strip me, and take a look at the body and check the clothes taken off. That's what it says... So the bill does not specify in any way what the search is about. It's in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I think... In this respect, this law does not comply with the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, this law only deepens the existing chaos of the existing regulations. I don't want to give and discuss examples of mass events or, for example, mass events. About the assembly. If a person is detained at a convention, when he or she may be required to take his or her clothes off if he or she does not take off his or her clothes, he or she may be stripped of his or her clothes and may be inspected. And there's no complaint about that, there's nothing you can do. I'll be stopped, thank you, goodbye. Of course, if they find a gun or something, it's a whole other matter, because if I had something like that, then this whole appeal procedure could happen, and so on. And in case of a check, no. So that I think... that it was said that in the event of the threat we have, the terrorist and the other, we should tighten up the rules, etc., it is clear and obvious, but there must always be a procedure for any complaint, appeal, anything. And according to that, I can be undressed, if I participate in any demonstrations, you can do anything with me, watch me, test me in every way, and for that reason I can do nothing. Therefore, I believe that this is not the fulfillment of the judgment, that is not what this change was meant to be. It turns out that instead of specifying what this search is, what it is supposed to look like, it's added to the bill a preventive check, and you can see what it will be like, how it can be used. After all, each of the officers who will be able to exercise this right shall carry out these activities, and he shall be responsible when such powers are given him. Therefore, I would just like to say that unfortunately these changes are not those changes that we all cared about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Actions that interfere with personal freedom, such as searches of persons, must be very cost-effective and such regulations must be very carefully written and described. However, this law, which we are currently dealing with, is aggravating the existing chaos of regulations concerning the actions that force us to take off clothes, concerning the examination of the person's body. Further names of the same action are entered, e.g. Preventive checks, safety checks. In some cases, the law does not grant the possibility of a complaint to the court, and in urgent situations to the prosecutor, which also seems to me to be bad. Such acts should be approved by the courts. The body view, not just the clothes, but the body, which means the man naked, naked, because that's what this is about, it's not just a theory. There really must be a judicial review here. And that's my first reservation. The Act provides that if this person does not submit to such activities, he will be forced to do so. This also applies to detained, carried out... well, detained for 48 hours in a situation where detentions are commonly used in the case of demonstrations that have taken place. You think we're gonna agree to this when there's no judicial review and the prosecutor's review is illusory? 'Cause I don't really think the D.A.'s gonna make a different decision than what the cops are gonna do. We forget about some historical events that should be particularly sensitive to such situations. What's the point of doing that? I would also like to say that such actions will also be possible by the Marshal's Guard. Why? Is it necessary for the Marshal's Guard to receive such powers? I mean, she's been doing fine, and she's doing fine. I understand that she became the police, and therefore there were dogs, clubs, etc. And he gets that kind of cultivation? There's an input control, there's a pyrotechnic control performed by the former BOR, the present SOP, the State Protection Service. But it's not the most important thing. The most important is this situation of legal inequality. If, as a result of personal inspection, any pyrotechnics, knives or weapons are found, such a person will have the right to appeal to the court and demand that the court determine whether it was lawful or necessary. And if you don't find such things in the person you're holding, she has no right to appeal to the court. Well, Minister, maybe you can explain why. This case is on your head. A person who wanted to commit a crime and has been taken into custody has the right to appeal to the court as regards a personal search, and a person who has proved innocent has no such right. This is an outrageous, curiosity thing. And it's not that it's an inequality to the law, it's that the law treats these people unevenly, but it's that it's a reversal of a rule. If anyone is guilty or wants to commit a crime, he has certain rights, and if he can't be accused of anything, even though he's been arrested and searched... Not a personal search, but a holistic view. Does the Minister know how this is done? The undressed man has to do a few sit-ups, lean down, and look into intimate places. This type of action which interferes with one of the most important personal spheres must be under the control of the court, and that is why I am proposing an amendment that regulates it. Any such action by law enforcement authorities should be under judicial control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u166	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1051, and the examination of the committee is made in print No 1051 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, President Robert Mamotov, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the committee's rapporteur was to be Senator Grabowski, but he did not arrive, so I will allow myself to present this report. Report from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on the Protection of Personal Data Processed in relation to the Prevention and Fight against Crime adopted by the Sejm on 14 December 2018. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 18 December, the committees request the adoption of the Act without amendment. The Act on the protection of personal data processed in relation to the prevention and fight against crime, adopted by the Sejm, aims to implement into the Polish legal order the solutions contained in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of crime prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties, on the free movement of such data. And that's all I wanted to say about this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present proposals for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u169	Thank you. High Izbo! I, like Senator Mammothov, would say that Piotr Zientarski was to be the rapporteur of the minority committee. Unfortunately, he lost his voice today and could therefore not speak to you. He's getting better right now and he asked me to present you with a minority report. Besides, I was the second person to file this application, so I have a card for that. Ladies and gentlemen, the pace of legislative work, as highlighted in the committee's meeting... The legislator said that she had brought this opinion to the meeting, but that there was not enough time to carefully examine the bill, which is so thick, because I see that this is 127 pages. Of course, there wasn't enough time. But to be honest, it doesn't really make sense to repeat it anymore, because today, when you're looking at another point, you've introduced a completely different point without first reading, which is what I'm talking about. So I'm gonna leave it right now, ladies and gentlemen, on the side. And now for minority proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, minority proposals... Many applications are linguistic, editorial, but there are also substantive conclusions. First... I'm just gonna talk about the first one, and I'm gonna say it in general, because the minority proposals, ladies and gentlemen, are 34. Most of these are proposals that have been made by... i.e. amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, not all, but most of them. Ladies and gentlemen, first issue, first amendment concerns Article. 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 it is stated that the provisions of the Act do not apply to the protection of personal data, and in point 2 is the formulation of "processing" in connection with national security. And now it's mentioned in terms of national security, who... In terms of carrying out the statutory tasks of the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service. And at the end there's the Central Anti-corruption Office. The proposal concerns the deletion of this Central Anti-corruption Office. I'm not going to develop it. At the committee meeting, you confirmed that national security is such a broad concept that we can write everything in it, so I am surprised that just the office that you have not added any more. That's the first point. All the others are in our report, in minority proposals, i.e. the remaining 33. That's the one I mentioned. These are, as I said, various comments: and editorial, and linguistic, and substantive conclusions. It would take me a lot of time to talk. Please support these minority proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I ask the question of Minister Renata Jęczch: does the Minister wish to speak on this bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u171	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the new regulation is to maintain a balance between the right to privacy and the need for the police and other actors in the area of prevention and combating crime, including protection against and the prevention of threats to security and public order, confidentiality in the processing of data by authorised authorities. The legal act prepared shall lay down the rules and conditions for the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities in order to identify, prevent, detect and combat criminal offences, including threats to security and public order, and for the execution of provisional arrests, penalties and criminal penalties and coercive measures resulting in deprivation of liberty. It shall also specify the rights of persons whose personal data are processed by the competent authorities for the purposes indicated and the legal remedies available to them. In addition, it sets out how to supervise the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the above purposes; it determines the tasks of the supervisory authority; it is the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. and the form and manner in which they are carried out. At the same time, it shall determine the responsibilities of the controller and the processor and the data protection officer and the procedure for determining them. It sets out how to secure personal data, how to cooperate with the supervisory authorities of other European Union countries and the criminal liability for breaching the provisions of that law. The law on the protection of personal data processed in relation to the prevention and fight against crime in these regulations adopted by the Sejm constitutes the full implementation in the legal order of the solutions contained in Directive 2016/680 of the Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. Both the Directive and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, this is the Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data on the free movement of such data, so-called. The GDPR Directive regulates data protection issues in a comprehensive and coherent way for the whole of the European Union. Regulation allowing the processing of personal data by public authorities and restricting the individual powers of the bodies referred to in Article. 51 Constitutions should find a clear and precise basis in the Act. It is not only about the formal inclusion in the law of a provision conferring powers on public authorities to process personal data, but also about the quality of those provisions. They should not confer undue discretion on public authorities in this area, e.g. by using non-acute terms or general clauses and, where such freedom is necessary, an effective appeal mechanism should be in place to enable an effective review of the legality of the activities carried out by independent authorities, in particular the general courts. In view of this, the provisions contained in the draft law define the rights of persons whose personal data are processed by the competent authorities and the legal protection centres available to them, as well as the way in which personal data protection is supervised, which will guarantee the integrity of the protection of civil rights. The administrator will make available, among others. information on the name, location and contact details of the controller and, where necessary, the contact details of the data protection officer in order to implement the previously mentioned rights of persons. The rights of persons set out in the regulation are in particular the right to access their personal data, the right being defined as making a copy of the personal data available to or available to the applicant in an accessible form. The so-defined right of access is in line with the explanation set out in recital 40 of the preamble to the Directive. In addition, the right to supplement, update or rectify personal data has been regulated where such data are incomplete, outdated or false. At the same time, the regulation contains provisions on the right to delete personal data where such data have been collected or processed in breach of the provisions of this Act. The proposed rules give the data subject the opportunity to request information concerning, inter alia, the purposes for which its personal data are intended, the recipients of personal data, as well as the possibility of requesting the controller to correct or delete personal data or restrict the processing of data relating to that person. They shall also grant the right to lodge a complaint, on the basis of separate provisions, to the President of the office or other supervisory authority in the event of a breach of rights as a result of the processing of personal data and to obtain contact details of the President of the office or other supervisory authority. The role of the supervisory authority under this Directive will be exercised by the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, which was established on the basis of the Act of 10 May 2018 on the Protection of Personal Data. This solution primarily guarantees the consistency of the personal data protection system and thus their greater security. At the same time, the regulation ensures the independence of the supervisory authority, which is an essential part of the system as a whole. The President of the Office will be able to carry out checks on the processing of personal data using, as a general rule, procedures regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. This solution constitutes an additional guarantee element, in the maximum possible approach to both systems for the protection of personal data and at the same time taking into account their specific characteristics. In accordance with the solutions adopted in the event of a breach of personal data protection rules, the President of the Office shall, by means of an administrative decision, either of his own motion or at the request of the person concerned, be able to order the controller or processor to restore his or her lawful status and, in particular, to remedy the deficiencies, to supplement, update, rectify, make available or refuse access to data, to apply additional safeguards to the data collected, to safeguard data or to transfer them to other persons, to delete data and to introduce temporary or permanent restrictions on processing and transmission, including the prohibition of processing of data. In turn, in the event of a reasonable suspicion of infringement of the proposed provisions, the President of the Office, whether of his own motion or at the request of the person concerned, will issue a warning to the controller or the processor in which he will inform that taking a data processing operation cannot result in a breach of the rules...excuse me, may result in a breach of the rules. In addition, it is also envisaged that the President of the Office may request the personal data protection officer directly to verify the application of the proposed law by the controller whom he has appointed. At the same time, such a check will not exclude the President of the Office from carrying out such a check. Decisions of the President of the Office will in turn be subject to an appeal before the Administrative Court. A person who has suffered injury or injury as a result of an act in breach of the law will be entitled to compensation or redress from the administrator. In addition, the Act submitted contains provisions to ensure that personal data have been processed lawfully and reliably and have been processed using the necessary technical and organisational measures taking into account the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing and, of course, the risk of breach of rights or freedoms; this will be the key task of the controller. At the same time, the controller and processor shall apply technical and organisational measures to ensure the protection of personal data processed according to the risks and categories of data protected. If it is found that the data are incomplete, outdated or incorrect, the controller will remove them from office. In accordance with the law, the controller will appoint a personal data protection officer. The inspector's task will include: monitoring the compliance of data processing by the controller and data processors with the provisions of the Act and other data protection regulations, which will undoubtedly have a very beneficial impact on the standards for the collection, storage and transfer of personal data. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to add that the directive provides for the possibility of introducing a different regime relating to criminal proceedings. According to Art. 18 of the Directive, as well as recitals 20 and 49 of the preamble to the Directive, the national legislature may in such a way develop the protection of personal data collected in criminal proceedings in order to comply with the national procedure governing these proceedings. I would also like to point out that special services have been excluded from the application of the law, among others. Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service and Central Anti-corruption Office. I would like to stress that this Directive 2016/680 in Article. 2 (2) 3 lit. a and in recital 14 it allows such a solution, providing that its provisions should not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of activities outside the scope of European Union law. In view of the above national security activities, the activities of agencies or national security bodies or the processing of data by Member States during those activities which fall within the scope of Title V of Chapter 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they should not be considered as activities falling within the scope of that Directive. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is cited in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The third sentence provides that, in particular, national security remains the exclusive responsibility of each Member State. Here I would like to point out that the exemptions mentioned at the committee meeting, in particular the Central Anti-corruption Office, apply in this respect, because, as I mentioned, the Treaty on the Union clearly states what it means to be responsible for national security, that it is the responsibility of each Member State, and at the same time, in accordance with recital 14 above, the provisions of the Directive should not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of activities outside the scope of European Union law. At the same time, the notion of activities outside the scope includes activities in the field of national security, activities of agencies or bodies dealing with national security and the processing of personal data by Member States during the application of those activities. I would also like to say that the implementation of the specific tasks of each of these entities which are exempted is aimed at ensuring national security in different aspects and in accordance with the competence of each of these services, which is in favour of this exemption from the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The text of the law is contained in print 1052, and the report of the committee In print No 1052 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an amendment to the Act on Special Solutions related to Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Senate Printing No 1052. The Sejm adopted an opinion on the law at its seventy-fourth meeting on 14 December. It was a parliamentary presentation. High Senate, what is the matter with change? The amendments concern mainly Article. 32 of this bill. In the current article. 32 The Act sets the amount of 30 million to support climate change mitigation and adaptation for developing countries in 2018, or through bilateral assistance programmes, to achieve the objectives of the Climate Convention through the Green Climate Fund or the Adaptation Fund. Amendment of Article 32 aims to clarify the way these measures are handled and to extend the scope of the support granted by Poland. In the mouth. However, in practice, both in the case of the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptive Fund, management, trust with respect to the funds of these funds is exercised by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In order to avoid any legal doubt concerning the party with which the support agreement would be concluded, it is proposed to clarify that the support agreement may be a trustee of those funds. Second amendment to Article Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which adds words or through other multilateral development funds, extends the spectrum of possible entities that can be financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Third amendment to Article Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 aims to delete the deadline set for the allocation of funds by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, i.e. 2018. This will make it clear that money that has not been provided for support in 2018 will also be available in 2019. Next amendment concerning Article. 32, that's the addition of a mouth. 5, 6 and 7 in this particular article. According to the Law of 14 April 2000 on international agreements or as private law agreements, this support will take place on the basis of agreements concluded as international agreements. If a private law agreement is concluded, it will be necessary to obtain the prior approval of the Council of Ministers. Six senators took part in the committee's meeting, 5 were in favour, 1 was abstention. Please accept this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u174	Good. Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a prosaic question. I'd like you to inform me better. I'm not a lawyer, and I'm sure you're not. [[I'm not.]] What is the difference between a private law agreement and a civil law agreement? 'Cause I think there's a difference, since we're clearly writing it down. That's one question. And the second question is whether it is the Polish side that identifies these beneficiaries... maybe not the beneficiaries, but the trust funds that could benefit from this grant, i.e. the 30 million PLN transferred. Are they private entities or are they state entities?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u176	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I can't answer your first question right now, but I'm gonna try to get that information and give it to the senator. As for the second question, this was not the subject of the Environment Committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u178	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Minister Michał Kurtyka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Michał Kurtyka: No.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, as a justification, that I am a member of the Committee on the Environment, but because there was a meeting of the committee of the local government in parallel, I could not participate in the discussion on this draft law. And that's why I want to say a few words. On the one hand, this law would have to be adopted because it pursues a very important objective, i.e. help developing countries that need money to protect their climate. Besides, Poland, like the other Member States, has agreed to this, so this commitment should be fulfilled. I'm just surprised we haven't run any measures this whole time. At least we don't know that we've put in place these measures. If it's written that we need to spend 30 million as soon as possible. Perhaps we will continue this in 2019, that is, at a time when the Polish Presidency will continue. On the other hand, I was alarmed by the fact that this is a parliamentary presentation or a lobbyist group is not behind these proposals. Why? Because the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is the entity that can finance what we need, and at the moment we need large sums for our air protection and fight against smog. It would be good if we could use this $30 million for our national programmes and to improve our conditions if we have too much of this money. Besides, I don't understand why a national fund is supposed to transfer money to those who, I would say, run these trust funds. We don't know those, except what they're called. The Adaptive Fund and the Green Climate Fund... It's supposed to be for other development funds. I would like to get an answer to the question of who, what entities this money can be transferred to. Will they be private persons, will they be state entities, Polish entities or external entities? And what's it gonna look like? Especially since there is such a reservation: private law agreements must be... informed of these agreements by the Council of Ministers. That means there's an assumption that we're going out with the money. So we need to know what it looks like. I would be grateful if the government would like to provide us with such information as those with these funds, where and with whom contracts will be concluded. I believe that this money should remain in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. It's such a brief addition to my speech. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u180	Thank you, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I look at the hall and I see how much we are interested in what I believe is for all humanity, for all of us, for our families, a deadly threat, or climate change. The time has passed when the reality of this threat was doubted. Today, many people, from the Pope through other large authorities, agree that excessive emissions of greenhouse gases First of all, CO2, but also methane, causes faster than the major geological and cosmic changes that are taking place in front of our eyes. At the same time as the leaders of many countries were in Katowice It's too bad it wasn't the ones that weren't in Katowice. The environmental representatives have shown reports indicating that the time we have left is so little, several years. If we do not stop the processes that depend on us at this time, we can launch mechanisms that we will no longer be able to control, at least with current knowledge and technology. Today, by this law, After all, it refers to a climate summit, a unique event that took place in our country. We touch on a matter so fundamental that I couldn't imagine not going out on the stand and not referring to it. Of course, climate protection is too serious to be left in the hands of politicians. What happened in Katowice is not a success It is a minimum minimorum barely strangled by Polish negotiators, because it could have ended in complete disaster. This has not happened, but it is clear that speeding up the reduction of CO2 emissions for these most important players does not care and there will not really be any movement in this matter. Because, well, monitoring, showing it, etcetera. They're just things that can work on consciousness. But in fact, no one really wants to make commitments after the Paris conference, and there will be no acceleration in this regard, but we see the acceleration of warming. All predictions are happening faster than anyone thought. There is no good climate to save the climate. And although Poland is now taking the lead in the convention, it must be said, with all its power, that in Europe it is pointing to us as those who manage climate protection worse than others. No one will say that we, having a Presidency, have ambitions to be a leader in this area, because in Poland there is no climate for climate protection, at least in the current government. Let me remind you, because this was happening in the Senate, what the RES is and how drasticly we have reduced the opportunities for development in this area. Anyway, today... not today, maybe tomorrow we'll talk about cogeneration. And this bill also raises a lot of reservations. It could be said that even the last speeches within the ongoing climate summit on the clinging of coal, which already, as it turns out, is ruining Polish energy and ruining our wallets... And we still insist on it. And it must be made clear that the miners need money. Silesia needs a good development program leading to an economy of 4.0, not 4 floors down, because it's nonsense, because it's the past. The miners deserve more, more serious treatment than the miners in the Ruhr Basin. It's still not there. I believe that we are still on the eve of a decent national debate on what role we want to play in the climate agreement. I would like to look forward to this moment when we do not formally take over the Presidency, but really come closer to being a leader fighting for the purity of our air, for the climate that is our common earthly good. And whoever doesn't want to, doesn't believe, really let him read to sleep such a small, but what a beautiful book of "Laudato si'of Pope Francis, who is entirely devoted to the climate. How is it possible that in Poland those who so much confess to Christian values, at the same time commit sin to destroy the environment and confuse people in their minds, that you can wait that it is not the most important. That's why, Minister. At the committee meeting, I spoke briefly and I will end this here too. There is no money that is not worth spending on this case. I wish you could do it. Just as you have managed to do this minimal mini-morum, and this is some success, because it could have been even worse, it could have done much more and above all with us, here in the country, in Poland. We can do it well, we can do it economically. Our Silesia can be a beautiful place, it should be, and even, I would say, it has to be. This belongs to the miners for years when their work seemed right, smart, important. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Very important words just came out here. You could say he spoke here in quotes, a coal defender. I must tell you that Europe is being told that we are one of the countries that emits the most CO2 in Europe. But who's talking? Our emissions are about 1%. So don't worry about it that much. You say there's no climate for climate protection. And I'm gonna say it's not really the climate for knowledge either. Knowledge is not that most scientists, scientists, vote something out, and some truth becomes objective truth. No. Even one may be right, unlike the others. But what would I like to say? Well, you mentioned that in Katowice... Well, you started out very pessimistic when you said it was almost a disaster. I believe that the summit in Katowice is a success. New success. And what else would I like to talk about? You mentioned the authorities that were in Katowice. I was also in Katowice, I was in Krakow, I had the opportunity to have conversations with people from different regions of the world. Their approach especially to developing countries It's a little different from ours. There's something I can say about one and even two authorities. Arnold Schwarzenegger, real authority, great actor. He also came to Katowice. There was also a former vice president of the United States Al Gore, a Nobel Prize winner from 2007. He's here again. I didn't get a chance to listen to him last week in Katowice, but I know what he won the 2007 Nobel Prize for. For a book in which he wrote, among others. that in Silesia the pollution of the environment is so great that people need to go down to the mines to survive. So much for authority. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would also like to inform you that for the examination of the 13th point, i.e. Law on the amendment of the Civil Code Act, and the 14th paragraph, i.e. Law on amendment of the Law on notariat, we will proceed on the second day of the meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1050 and the report of the committee In print No 1050 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, a proposal adopted at the Committee's hundred-fifty-second meeting on 18 December concerning the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law and certain other laws. The aim of the Act is to adapt the 2002 Aviation Law to new or revised European Union legislation. Therefore, amendments have been made to this law, which concern inter alia. rules for the conduct by the President of the Civil Aviation Office of compliance checks and decisions in the field of civil aviation. The possibility of unannounced checks has also been introduced. During the inspection carried out, the President of the Office will be able, by administrative decision, to suspend or restrict the operation of the air carrier's certificate. Changes have also been made in the case of out-of-court settlement of passenger disputes involving the introduction of the Ombudsman's institution. The Ombudsman will investigate out-of-court dispute resolution between a passenger and an air carrier, a tourism organiser or a ticket vendor. The Ombudsman will appoint the President of the Office for a period of 5 years from the staff of the Civil Aviation Office. There are also rules on complaint proceedings. It has also been specified that the passenger's property claims are valid one year from the date on which the carriage was carried out and, where the carriage has not been carried out, from the date on which it was to be carried out. In addition, the amendments are designed to bring the Law into line with EU legislation on a new type of aviation licence, so-called. a recreational pilot. The new solutions also clarify and clarify the rules on working time of aircraft crew members. A general standard was introduced to define the scope for both natural and artificial facilities, including construction facilities that are related to airports, and to extend the rules for reporting and marking of air obstacles. This includes: removal and trimming of trees which constitute an obstacle to the air. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under investigation was a government project. It was accepted by the Sejm on 14 December this year. In favour of the bill, 384 Members voted against, 1 Member abstained, 4 Members abstained. This law does not raise any legislative objections from our Senate Legislative Office. And among others. I therefore ask that the High House please, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure, which unanimously adopted this proposal, adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Deputy Minister Nicholas Wild? If you'd like, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that this law already introduces us to the regulatory first league when it comes to aviation law in Poland, but unfortunately it is not yet. The aim of this law is to catch up on some of the shortcomings we have in implementing EU law and to introduce the solutions presented just now in the paper, which aim to ensure security on the one hand... Because we want to build the aviation sector on the one hand to respect passenger safety standards and on the other In accordance with the principle of proportionality, the Commission considers that the measures That is the purpose of this law and this is what the solutions that have been adopted serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u188	Thank you, Minister. Minister, maybe there will be questions for you, so that you... [[There's a question.]] You're welcome. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn is reporting for questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u189	Minister, I'm not on this committee, I'm not a professional either, but I've been trying very hard to make a small airport in my city operational. And we seem to be able to put in this European and Polish trend that General Aviation airports are finally beginning to develop. Business flights are getting more frequent. Tell me, Minister, whether these changes have a positive or negative impact on the development of such airports, or whether they impose additional obligations on them. That would interest me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u190	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u191	The standards introduced by this law are safety-related standards. And here, of course, there is always a dilemma, whether to bet on freedom of activity or to bet on security. I'm guessing Mr. Senator here is talking about solutions that concern control of airport containment areas. This is a change that is based on the EU regulation, and by adopting it on the basis of our amendment, we have generalized it to all airports. Of course, the clarification of general regulations, which are indicated in aviation law, will rest with the Civil Aviation Authority, which by law has the right to issue guidelines, just as it is on European soil with the European regulator, with EASA. In this respect, the civil aviation authority will be concerned not to hinder the development of small airports as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u192	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Whether this bill gives airline passengers any additional rights or merely appoints an ombudsman, specifically an ombudsman... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild:...a passenger.]] ...the passenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u194	The Act improves the situation of passengers at 2 levels, and not only passengers. The first level is indeed the support that takes place in the amicable settlement of disputes. Because it is true that very often this deficiency in the area of amicable settlement of disputes results in an increase in the turnover of legal firms. And these are mainly beneficiaries of the lack of an amicable dispute resolution system. And the second level. The Act gives the Civil Aviation Authority the power to impose sanctions on those entities which do not comply with air law and, in particular, do not comply with obligations decoded under Union law. Let me give you an example. When a carrier violates a nocturnal flight ban, of course the airport must not accept the carrier, but it is possible to impose on a carrier which systematically violates a nocturnal traffic ban, appropriate penalties, which is good from the point of view of the residents of the areas surrounding the airport. So from this perspective it is really the realization of those guarantees that already existed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u195	Thank you. [[I'll ask...]] Who? [[Me, if I may.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was curious about this passenger rights attorney. If you, Minister, were to say whether this type of function is being performed on the European market and how it looks from the technical point of view. What are the powers of such spokespersons in the countries of the European Union if they are called there and what powers will our national spokesperson be endowed with? This is the first case. The second point relates to competence. In fact, the competence to deal with matters or the possible amicable handling of matters... what will he have to do with possible entities that... I understand that private individuals, some passengers, are going to be interested here. Yes? What potential will it have for these actors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u197	You asked Senator Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u198	As far as the precise comparative analysis is concerned, we will allow ourselves to present it in writing. I think it'll be more complete and appropriate. As far as the source, the genesis, is concerned, we now have a committee body that deals with such matters. The appointment of the Ombudsman is simply intended to ensure that these guarantees are implemented and that proceedings are accelerated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u199	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for you. Do you, Minister, know that Eurolot was actually very punctual during the strike and that after the strike it stopped being punctual? They're late for 40 and 50 minutes. The question is, do you know and can you tell me if I would ask you to answer in writing? What is the number of delayed flights in relation to all Eurolot flights? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: Is this a question about LOT or Eurolot?]] Eurolot. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: In this respect, I really need to...]] I fly Eurolot and I noticed such a strange pattern, surprising to me that during the strike the flights took place very punctually, and after the strike, you can say, everything was back to normal. And I'm meeting with the senators, with the envoys at the airport, sitting there for an extra 40 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u200	I think there are actually a few things here. Firstly, the strike in principle did not translate, apart from the cancellation of flights, into the operation of the company. In my opinion, it needs to be emphasised that the average of delays is below the European average. At the Vienna Air Summit which took place in October this year, the president of Eurocontrol, the European air control authority throughout Europe, said that if everything went well, the next summer would be as bad as the current one. And if it goes wrong, it gets worse. The problem is that we are victims of delays generated by Western markets. Our air traffic control is one of the most effective in Europe. The delays on average generated on the plane reach 20 seconds for the operation. By comparison, if we looked at our western neighbors, we'd see that they're over a minute. So we have something to brag about here. We have something to be proud of. However, we must face up to the fact that we are getting ricocheted because of the problems facing our western neighbours and aviation markets west of us, which are increasingly facing the problem of Sky Congestion, with increasing congestion in the aviation market and with increasing difficulties. This is why action is also being taken at European level. These are not always solutions that are beneficial from the point of view of the Polish aviation market. E.g. The idea has recently been formulated that everyone should reduce the delays by a certain percentage, which may be good from the point of view of economies that really have huge delays. From the point of view of the Polish aviation market, this means really climbing to the heights of efficiency. It would be the same if we tried to optimise air traffic management costs, because we are also among the most cost-effective airspace managers in Europe. Thus, this problem is a pan-European problem, but Polish carriers, with particular emphasis on this, if they differ from the average in this respect, are in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u201	Well, thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: I don't know if it's comforting, but...]] So it's not like I thought Eurolot had basically airplanes on the line when it comes to connections. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: Maybe...]] 'Cause I thought these delays came from the fact that there were no extra planes or, like, a contact. Many times they informed me when I asked that the plane of Eurolot was just late from another route, e.g. from the route Kraków Warsaw, then on the Warsaw route Gdansk. So that's not the reason, that's the external reason, that comes from outside Eurolot?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u202	Delays related to airspace management in Europe are the main reason for delays, which is a pan-European problem. But it really has to be said that when it comes to the airlines, although it is a record year, the record time on the aviation market is indeed such that the airline networks are growing so fast that airlines often fail to keep up with their purchases. Indeed, this case is very often.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u203	But not with us? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: These are the questions...]] Okay, Minister, I'm not gonna ask you anymore. Well, you got me wrong. Thank you for that. Thank you, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mikołaj Wild: Thank you very much.]] ...there are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Adam Bielan made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1056 and the report of the committee In print No 1056 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krystian Probier, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on National Economy on the Law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. Let me continue to use the shortcut: platform. [[You're welcome.]] Yes? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yeah, there you go.]] I'm serious. [[I...]] [[Is it gonna go through your throat?]] Well, it's gone, it's gone. [[There you go, Senator rapporteur.]] [[Positive about the platform?]] We'll see about that. [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] Well, at first... [[There you go.]] ...Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'd like to say a few words about what this Future Industry Platform is and what its objectives are. The aim of the Foundation's Future Industry Platform is to promote the competitiveness of entrepreneurs by supporting their digital transformation in processes, products and business models using the latest achievements in automation, artificial intelligence, ICT and communication between machines and people and machines, taking into account the appropriate level of security of these solutions. What actions does the Future Industry Platform have to carry out? I would like to add, by the way, that the entire bill has 32 articles. The tasks to be carried out are: to build business awareness and promote the benefits of digitalisation of industry; to promote technical, technological and organisational improvement; to promote and support the application of smart management systems by entrepreneurs; to initiate research projects aimed at the development of material engineering, manufacturing techniques and new products; to carry out information and training activities for enterprises in the field of industrial digitisation. Of course, these tasks are A little more. I took the liberty of introducing the most important ones. This law also deals with the financing of the platform, the bodies, the statutes and the supervision, as well as the support provided by the platform. So, in short, in one sentence, I'm going to say this: the platform is going to support this development. In line with the assumptions of the economy 4.0, and maybe the next Mainly through training. It is a foundation, and the purpose of the foundation is not to create profit. I took the liberty of saying that at the committee meeting. Of course, this support is most appropriate and it is very good that such a platform is created. However, I think that, above all, they are companies themselves. The companies, businesses, must be aware that without reaching out to these future solutions, there is no chance that the company will have a good future. I am paying attention to this bill under consideration by the High Senate. The Commission accepted 6 amendments: to Article. 7, to Article. 9 small words have been added here ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 15, 16, 28 and Art. 29. That's it, Mr. Marshal. If there's any comments or questions, I'd be happy to answer. I have the support of the Minister here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u205	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any questions for the senator? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marcin Ociepa like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the Ministry's representative from the place. Are there any questions? I have a question for the Minister, so please come to the podium. Minister, how much will this foundation cost, apart from the 2 million that will be transferred to the founding fund, I understand, from the state budget? If the Minister could explain it to me, I'd appreciate it. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: Yes, sir.]] How many people will be employed and how much will this foundation cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Indeed, the amount of this initial fund will amount to PLN 2 million and it has been included in the amount of appropriations reserved in the 2019 budget law, in the special reserve. However, we have indicated the total amount of expenditure in the years 2019 to 2028, i.e. for these 9 years, the amount of PLN 236 million and PLN 100 thousand, which is slightly over 20 million per year. [[And how many employees will she hire?]] Mr. Marshal, High Senate... [[I take it the board... the council will probably be paid for the meeting?]] Yes, sir. There's no wage for the board. [[But the board...]] And the number of employees will be left to the board's decision. So that the bill doesn't define it. [[I see. So it's not determined how much of this 20 million a year can go to administration?]] There isn't, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u207	Thank you. I still have a question about the headquarters. This is a new institution. Why this new institution is established in Warsaw, not e.g. in Katowice? Let's look at the financial side of Katowice are certainly cheaper than Warsaw. [[Oh, that's a good question.]] I think it is worth establishing new institutions outside Warsaw. It strengthens regional functions, city functions. In this case, This is a foundation that's supposed to deal with high technology. Have you considered this option, or was it not at all considered? Is it such a principle that all new institutions are and will be established in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u208	Mr. Marshal, I agree with what you said, which is why the law passed by the High Sejm does not define the seat. It's changed, that's what she's gonna decide in the future. The law, the record says that the designation of a seat will take into account the principle of deagglomeration This is very important information, which means that it will probably be located outside Warsaw. [[Is that a record?]] Although I don't want to declare it. [[I think it's because I've been looking at it here... is it in the explanatory memorandum?]] Yeah, that's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u209	All right, Minister, if this is the way it's gonna be done... We're talking about Katowice. Senator Probier fights for coal. I think it's also necessary here, in places like this, so to speak, just to plant high technology. I'm sorry, but I'm sure the Minister knows that. The Senate, i.e. we managed to place the Polish Space Agency in Gdańsk during the previous term of office. And right now, the government is deciding to move her to Warsaw. So that's not what you're looking for? That it's gonna be somewhere else, let's assume that in Katowice and then it's gonna be in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u210	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, it's hard for me to talk about what's going to happen in the future. I can say that from our intention there is a record here which suggests the location of the headquarters of the Foundation outside Warsaw, although it does not prejudge it. So I don't want to get ahead of myself. And I want to assure you that the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, is a supporter of the principles of deagglomeration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u211	Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is, what exactly is this foundation going to do? Is it just the flow of money from bodies that will advise, train, support, or will it be individual, I would call it, projects such as advice, training, etc., or will it be so that the foundation will have some own tasks in this regard? Will the foundation be just a pool of money, or will there also be people who will work in this area? And if so, if this second answer is correct, then will these troops which are to be created in the territory of the Republic be tasked, among others. approach to entrepreneurs from a given district or from a given voivodship, just to better meet their needs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I think this is a fundamental question about the idea of setting up the Future Industry Platform Foundation. The Foundation will focus on the coordination of digital hubs of innovation, standardisation, coordination of the work of those already existing innovation centres that we have on training the country, building support networks, building advisory competences, as well as informing, demonstrating, promoting, supporting, training, initiating building activities and developing components that form a profile for the competitive industry of the future, precisely in the spirit of this fourth industrial revolution. So the answer is more complex. We appreciate what we have in the country today, i.e. a network of innovation centres. We appreciate the efforts of economic chambers, economic self-government. It is not universal, so in this sense it is not perfect when it comes to using this particular tool, but it is worth noting that elsewhere in the country this activity is very valuable. We have universities that aren't all in the mass... But we have universities that are definitely kicking off when it comes to this activity. Research is being carried out, as well as what is key, in principle the cloud problem is there are close relationships between the world of science and the business world. And we've diagnosed the barriers that hinder this transformation. Unfortunately, we know the results of all research, we know the rankings and we know that Poland has a lot to do when it comes to this transformation, about preparing for the transformation towards industry 4.0. We have a great deal to do when it comes to the awareness of entrepreneurs themselves in this area. We have diagnosed, first, the low awareness, second, the too low level of cooperation between entrepreneurs and the world of science and, third, the lack of organisation that would coordinate, implement and monitor the course of digital transformation in Poland. And these are the three problems that this foundation has to answer. This means that in some cases we will want to support these initiatives, those that have already been set up, which are already active in this area, and where they are missing, this foundation will certainly want to fill this gap. And it's not that we're just talking about financial support. All this activity in general, which should be stressed And that's already been said. It's not profit-making. Of course, support is to be provided, above all support of an expert, advisory and consulting nature. The Foundation won't be paying the money. It is designed to create a framework, to create a platform for establishing these relationships. Of course, there are examples of very tangible effects of these actions, which are not being undertaken today. Well, for example. It is about machinery parks, laboratories for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have the potential and resources to own their own laboratories or machinery parks, and they do not have the ability to access them. The Foundation will be able to share this type of equipment, and will be able to make available laboratories and machinery parks. What is important is that it will do so with respect for the principles of state aid, so as not to break those rules so as not to expose itself to any accusations, including from the European Commission, of unlawful public aid. We do not want to go into details too much, but in Poland we are dealing with such a situation that devices are created at universities, machines are created. And the question arises as to whether they can be made available later. We've got some catching up to do with the law. And this foundation is such a flexible legal form that it can take over these devices, these machines, and then make them available to entrepreneurs. This is just an example of how a flexible foundation can respond to needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u215	Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, you're welcome. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u216	Am I getting this right? So this is mostly about money, because it's about coordinating a lot of people there. It's okay. I'm still looking at the amounts that are provided for the following years, i.e. more than 20 million each year, and the initial fund covers only 2 million. Compared to the first amount, it is one tenth. I understand that this is the amount the foundation will be able to operate as part of its tasks, right? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u217	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator, that kind of money or more, because the bill provides for the possibility of obtaining further external resources. This should also be emphasised, even if we are talking about the new budgetary perspective of the European Union, where these emphasis on innovation, on technological transformation, will be very much shifted in favour of the statutory objectives that we set out in the Act establishing this foundation. So there could be more of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u219	Thank you. Minister, I understand that the foundation is to engage in various kind of spaces, of course in new IT technologies, especially as regards the possibility of support at the interface of science. It's a use, isn't it? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: Yes.]] So it's about universities, institutions, technical universities, etc., right? Here, the foundation sees its possibilities when it comes to actions that it will implement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u220	Mr. Marshal, here too. Of course, the foundation is primarily dedicated to entrepreneurs. I mean, we'd like to improve the indicators, we'd like to encourage entrepreneurs to first Maybe it's surprising what I'm going to say. They've learned that this revolution, the fourth industrial revolution, is the fact that this is the future. And I think that what Senator rapporteur, Senator Probier, has said is extremely important that we do not have ambition as a government, and we should not have such ambitions to replace entrepreneurs, i.e. We can't correct business models, we can't force anyone. But we see by looking at these data that we are the contributors to, that this awareness is extremely low. So first of all, we would like to address this foundation to entrepreneurs. We are talking about the fact that we would like to convince entrepreneurs, we would like to support entrepreneurs, we would like to inspire entrepreneurs to technological transformation, but we will not do this without cooperation with universities. The achievements of Polish universities, but not only in the fields of automation, robotization, digitalization, artificial intelligence and the internet of things This is the work that entrepreneurs should benefit from. And in that sense, it will be for mutual benefit. That is to say, we will join what has already been discussed in the High House, what concerns, for example. Constitution for science, Constitution for business. On the one hand, too much scientific material goes into the proverbial academic drawer, and not enough of it applies, and on the other hand we have entrepreneurs who are too rarely willing to reach for such solutions. And the platform, of course, is to bring these worlds closer together.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u222	I have one more question, Minister. What will be the way to check the results of the foundation? Because there's going to be a flow of money. In addition to supervision, would I call it, the accountant will carry out this supervision by the Minister of Justice? will there be any way to verify the effectiveness of its operation? Is this how you operate in this very important market Because we know that we are looking for more economic innovation, especially new technologies Will it be measurable in any way? Is it just the board of the foundation that's gonna check it out? Are you expecting any other methods or tools to check the effectiveness of this foundation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u223	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the toughest instrument will be, I believe, the Supreme Audit Chamber. That is why such a legal formula was adopted and this legal formula is in this sense safe that the foundation appointed by the Sejm and the Senate is an entity which will be subject to the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which also examines efficiency. And the broader answer would be this: we'll all be judging it, I know that the senator didn't ask that. - indicators in the form of e.g. number of robots per 10,000 industrial workers. Today in Poland it is seventy pairs, in the Czech Republic or Hungary Over 100, in Germany it is over 300 robots, in China it is over 600 robots. These are objective indicators, and this challenge in this sense is our common one. We reach for different tools. The foundation is only one of these tools I'm gonna... I'm And at the end of the day, we are going to sum up these efforts just by improving the indicators, for example, the one I gave, very detailed, i.e. number of robots per 10,000 people employed in industry. Those indicators, those tests that... I will quote the 2014 study. Roland Berger then stated that Poland ranks twenty-third among the countries of the European Union in terms of its readiness to implement industry technology 4.0. I believe this has changed a bit since 2014. We've already commissioned a study to update this data, but anyway, it's very disturbing. Therefore, the answer to the strict sense is that the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Council and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology will check it, whereas the sense of largo We're going to evaluate this by looking at the economy we're going to have in 5, 10 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u225	Thank you. Minister, do you not think that these charity tasks are a little broad, that it would be better to focus on specific things? Consulting, opinion, and at the same time entering financial support in individual fields... I understand that if you submit this bill, you don't have the impression. But wouldn't it be better to narrow it down, not expand these tasks so much? I agree with the senator who asked about the possibility of measuring this efficiency. Well, they're going to go for quite a lot of money, not huge, of course, but quite large, because tens of millions. With such extensive tasks... Here are 13 different points, and in one of these points, in the eighth, we have: building trust in relationships between actors. It's going to be very difficult to measure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to stress that we are not creating a new state institution, which has specific tasks, administrative apparatus, etc. We have decided on a flexible legal form that will allow us to respond flexibly to what we will see, to respond flexibly to the needs of entrepreneurs. Again: these are not our own tasks, i.e. we do not carry out our own tasks through the foundation as Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. These are business assignments. And now I am. In our view, narrowing down the tasks that will stand before the foundation can be counterproductive, and it will simply be harder for us to respond to the needs that entrepreneurs themselves will report. Let me give you a little parallel to what we were just talking about over the funds. I wish I could. I also speak on behalf of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology • that they really find themselves willing to benefit from the support of the foundation in this financial area, which we propose. I'm afraid we're even offering too much. This is a real challenge, High Senate, so that entrepreneurs really want to make this transformation so that they want to use the tools that we put before them, also within this foundation. I would like these funds to be actually spent so that they are missing, because there will be so many entrepreneurs who will want to take advantage of this offer. This is the real challenge we face. Because if this foundation allows us to convince and support a group of companies in the process of technological transformation, for some moment this money will start returning to us very quickly, and that is what I would like.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister, for explaining. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marcin Ociepa: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. I was addressing the Minister, so I waited for him to hear me out. I didn't ask questions because I asked a lot of them at the committee meeting and I didn't want to repeat them. Besides, it must be said that the questions that have been raised here were, in most cases, also the subject of our debate in the committee. I think that even for a cursory observer there is no doubt that the simple development reserves in Poland are running out. On the cheap labour force, on subcontracting, on simple works further developing the country, the Polish economy cannot be developed at a pace that would satisfy us all, but which is our dream. Indeed, technological progress is so huge that its introduction into our industry, the introduction of innovation, is an absolute necessity. I agree with those who say that there is probably no good future in front of companies that are not going to do this. Therefore, as for the diagnosis, Minister, it is appropriate to agree, that was the case at the committee meeting and that is the case here. There are many reasons why this is not working at a pace that would satisfy us. There are some single successes, but it certainly doesn't work out in some trend, the whole thing. It seems that we are going even slower than many other countries in the European Union. You told the minister about our not-so-famous 23rd place in the ranking. Therefore, support is needed because we do not have a tradition of cooperation between universities and companies. It's been separate for so long, it's not easy to make this alliance. There are other laws that encourage this to happen today. Let's hope we're at the beginning of the road. But if there's anything more you can do about it, it's worth it, you have to. Cooperation between companies and in general between Poles was so many times described in various studies It's not our national specialty. So if there's anything you can do to get her to support her, to organize her, then it's worth it. We discussed at the committee meeting and there were various, even concrete ideas, whether the way you have chosen to achieve these objectives is certainly right. I agree with Mr. Marshal that so much, so extensive, so diverse goals can cause it to be unknown. I'll tell you what. What to put in and what is a priority. My professional experience teaches that if there are more priority tasks than 4.5, i.e. I don't think he's got priorities anymore. And there's 13 of them, so there's a lot of it. This has been written in a very general way, so in order for it to come true, it would have to be really excellent professionals and first of all it would have to be selected what is most important. I must say that the construction of this foundation and this law does not put too much emphasis on ensuring the statutory competence of people who will work there. The Minister assured me that the best representatives of the Ministry would be there, but these are the words. Our experience is that in these different re-created, reorganized, etc. institutions often occur by chance. Unfortunately, this often serves to place people who are career-oriented, and who are not competent enough to show results. It's been a long time since we've seen a position carousel like this. And it's in the same institutions, in some places for the third time, the fourth time we're assured that they're the best people again. In order to prevent the creation of para-budgetary organisations, such as foundations with budgetary resources, all political environments were banned in 2009 from setting up such foundations in Article. 45 Public Finance Act. And it must be made clear that this foundation clearly breaks the record of this article. Of course you can rely on the provisions of the Foundations Act, which says that you must not create this kind of foundation under the rule of such a law, and you can try to bypass it by creating a completely separate law for this foundation, but Let's be honest with each other. It's a pick that tries to get back to something that we wanted to part with for the sake of clarity in the management of public money. Indeed, the careful reading of this law shows that many of the shortcomings that caused the money addressed to public money foundations were actually leaking out or wasted or poorly managed, you tried to see in this law. And we see that it is. Only that at the committee meeting and in the Law and Justice, and at our place in the Platform, we could not resist the impression that there would be at least a few ways to deal with these issues and achieve these objectives in accordance with the Public Finance Act. As a matter of fact, whenever we thought of it, it would come to us. In the last 8 years of the Platform's government, to get around it, however, because it would be convenient to have a foundation, we were reminded so many times that if we wanted to do something in harmony and yet a little separately, then maybe it is enough to set up an executive agency and try to carry out specific tasks in this formula that allow us to exploit all the various potentials. That's why I personally don't think it's the right way. And I'm not the only one. At the Civic Platform Club, that's what we think. And we don't have our permission to break the Public Finance Act. Because there's no need. Absolutely not necessary. There are enough existing institutions that, after a minor amendment of the law, could carry out these tasks without breaking the legal order. I'm still appealing for reflection at this point. Because you have to act, you have to help different entities, you have to combine, but it doesn't require unrespecting the article. 45 Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u229	Thank you, Senator. Now let me take the floor in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! I was at the time when government foundations were set up, and I was also at the time when the Public Finance Act introduced a ban on setting up such foundations. And it was introduced for a reason. The reason for this ban was that ministers for public money, that is, budget money, set up foundations for their foundations, where they were then in the authorities of these foundations. It's not a good situation that this foundation opens up what's already closed. Because it's a precedent. And after that, there'll be more of these kinds of conclusions. And, I repeat, the ban on government foundations, which means the ban on setting up a foundation for public money, was not an invented ban. He was connected with the conclusions that had to be drawn after a while. And for many years there have been no government foundations. What we're talking about here is a government foundation. So I have reservations about the general issue. Not that new technologies need to be supported, that new solutions need to be supported, that there is also a need for support for this link between research and implementation. You can see that everywhere when any of us are in technical college, they hear about it. There are attempts to create a foundation at the university level, some kind of additional leverage. But we're back on the road we came down from, and it's a good thing we came down. Therefore, I have reservations about setting up government foundations again for public money. I'm not saying that in this area of the foundation... Of course, this is a much better start and a much better position than what other foundations have on this foundation market. Because there are other foundations that operate and operate in this space, maybe not so wide, but they operate in this space. Ladies and gentlemen, I state that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Adam Bielan made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, tomorrow we will resume the session at 9 a.m., we will begin by considering the point on the resolution establishing 2019 as the Year of Mathematics. Immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. We will then proceed to the resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of the Lublin Union. These two points will be followed by a vote on the laws that have been dealt with today. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u230	Messages. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Police and certain other laws will take place on 20 December 2018, Thursday at 8.15 p.m. in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-19-senat-69-1.u231	I declare a recess until tomorrow, 20 December 2018, until 9 a.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 17]]
