ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u1	Resume session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats and keep your conversation quiet. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. I would like to warmly welcome the guests present at the meeting. Hello very cordially Fr. Prof. Dra hab. Antoni Dębiński, Rector of the Catholic University of Lublin. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Hello very cordially Fr. Prof. Dra hab. Wojciech Zyzak, rector of the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow. [[Applause]] Hello very cordially Fr. Prof. Dra hab. Stanisław Dziekonski, rector of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Hello Professor Dra hab. Paweł Łukaszewski, director of the Fryderyk Chopin University of Music in Warsaw. [[Applause]] Welcome very cordially Prof. Dra hab. Jerzy Andrzej Wojtczak-Szyszkowski, lecturer at the University of Warsaw and University of Trade and Law. Richard Łazarski in Warsaw. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 936, and the committee's report in print No 936 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Great Dear and Honourable Guests! I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the anniversary of the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. The Commission met on 19 September this year. She then considered the draft resolution presented at first reading. She has tabled several amendments to it and unanimously asks the Senate to adopt a resolution. During the committee's deliberations, representing a very large group, because as many as 52 senators, I presented the assumptions of the resolution, stressing that it is not so much about reminding the facts of the biography of John Paul. II, how about showing the crucial importance of this pontificate for Poles, for the Catholic Church in Poland, for the world. For it was not for nothing that the Polish pope was given the nickname "Great." It is in the following paragraphs of this resolution that the justification for the size of John Paul's pontificate is included. II, and this in various fields of his activity, on the pilgrim's trail through the world, in the service of teaching, in the most numerous canonization processes so far, in influence on events of the end of the 20th century, in personal testimony of the holiness of life, especially as defenders of the family and the right to life from conception to natural death. Probably each of us these framework dates of the pontificate, which are on October 16, 1978, the election of Cardinal Wojtyla to the capital of St. Peter and on April 2, 2005. His departure into the house of the Lord, he carries deep in his heart. It should be said that in these years our homeland has been distinguished in a special way. Millions of Poles in the world then admitted to their national roots, and for us in the country these were historical years. We have shed the yoke of an undemocratic system, and it has opened up, starting with Poland, the door of freedom for all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Today by a senate resolution we pay tribute to the great and today to the holy pope, our compatriot, the Pole of all time. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let me read the text of the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. On 16 October 2018, the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to celebrate the first Pole at the office of St. Peter, the Head of the Universal Church, and at the same time the son of our Homeland, who looked at Poland and its history with the eyes of great romantics. The fate of the country is weighed in the heart of every Pole;, that will be Poland, what will be her sons and daughters, are thoughts taken out of the papal teaching. No one like Him could awaken hope in the hearts of Poles, whose millions participated in meetings on his pilgrim paths in the Homeland, Rome and the world. He also enjoyed respect for those who disagreed with his vision of the world and man. He advocated ecumenism and interreligious dialogue. He was referred to as a nickname. The great one, for record reasons: he made 104 foreign pilgrimages, during which he three times travelled the distance between the Earth and the Moon, which corresponds to 30 laps of the globe; while traveling, he spent more than 900 days, i.e. over 2.5 years, apart from the Vatican, which accounts for around 11.5% the duration of the pontificate; he visited more than 140 countries, including many of them several times. He was not afraid to go to Sarajevo, Lebanon, Kiev, Havana, Athens, or Jerusalem. He dreamed of a pilgrimage to Russia and China. It is hard to imagine our era without John Paul II, for it is impossible to count all those whom in the years of his pontificate he helped, with whom he prayed and who could happily see him from close up. Historians or sociologists rightly claim that his ministry and teaching could be divided into several or even a dozen popes. In fact, he announced 14 encyclicals, 14 apostolic apostolics, 10 constitutions, 37 apostolic letters and 23 motu proprio, in which he organized the teaching of the Church, gave the catechism of the Catholic Church, gave thousands of speeches. John Paul II considered one of the essential elements of his ministry to be a faithful example of holiness: he presided over 150 canonization and beatification ceremonies and declared nearly 1300 blessed, and 455 glorified holiness. If we add to this various records of this pontificate, bishop synods, cardinal consistorships, official visits of the heads of state, general audiences attended by dozens of millions of faithful from all countries of the world, there should be no doubt that from 16 October 1978 to 2 April 2005 we participated in a great and extraordinary event in the Church, whose name is John Paul. II. The size of this pontificate is an unobtrusive effect on the events of the end of the 20th century. The pope from Poland contributed to the changes in the world that led to the collapse of the empire of evil As US President Ronald Reagan called the Soviet Union. The person of John Paul II will forever be associated with the emergence of the movement "Solidarity" in Poland, and consequently with the fall of the Berlin Wall, with the breakdown of the iron curtain, with the freedom of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. John Paul II has passed into history as Pope of the Cult of Divine Mercy and Family, defender of marriage and the right to life of the unborn, holiness of life from conception to natural death. In one statement on the subject, the Holy Father stated that he wanted it to be his will, the meaning of the pontificate. He taught that the right of a child to live in a family is the foundation of civilization and culture. If there is no respect for life and family, there are no other rights, such as freedom, justice, human dignity. On the question of where John Paul II had so much hope that with such conviction to proclaim the truths and values often questioned by the world, from where his confidence came that goodness and love, justice and peace, freedom and truth could become a return of values to human consciences, the foundation of every responsible ethics, should be answered: He really, personally, took to heart the call of his pontificate and lived according to him, to not be afraid of Christ, not to be afraid to open the door to Christ. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. I ask the Senate to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and the representative of the applicant. I would remind you that you are also the representative of the applicants, Senator Czesław Ryszka. Do any of you senators wish to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! This year, certainly in a solemn way, with preparations for this event, we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the election of the Polish Pope, John Paul. II. Both our resolution and all that will happen until October 16th and probably for many days later, because this anniversary is a good excuse to reflect on the pontificate of John Paul II and to think about what has happened during these 40 years with us, with Poles above all, and also about what has happened in the international arena. We as Senate are the House, which consists of politicians, therefore we should be particularly interested in this part of the pontificate of John Paul's pontificate. II, which concerns the world of politics. Of course, it is impossible to forget that day, 16 October 1978, and what happened then. Figuratively, this can be included in the following words. Pope John Paul II in one of his first words addressed to the Roman people, before saying these famous words, do not be afraid, which will largely be the motto of his entire pontificate, said that he came from a faraway country. The Pope from a faraway country. Recently, a few days ago I had the opportunity to participate in the debate of historians, scientists dealing with the pontificate of John Paul at the Royal Castle. II, I was also taking the floor there. And that's where Dr. Andrzej Grajewski first released the file of Soviet intelligence. There was a very interesting quote, as if parallel to those words I spoke about, recalling the words of John Paul. II. The communist intelligence immediately after 16 October 1978 analyzed this reality and stated: tragedy, this pope is from here. Remember these words: from a faraway country and from there. This is the key to the discussion of Poles about why we are free and undisturbed today. John Paul II, who was from a distant country for the Western world, or for a world that did not understand communism, did not understand the reality in which we lived, caused that distant world to become closer and closer, because geographically, culturally it was very close. This pontificate is the transfer of a distant world, or Poland, to what we call the expression "hence." On the other hand, the communists realized that this Pope cannot be deceived, that this Pope unfortunately is from here, i.e. He understands what is happening in this part of Europe. Primate Stefan Wyszyński at the Pro Memoria, in his journals, wrote another very important thought. Let her serve as the third quote to understand what I would like to tell you here. That is, when he had to say goodbye to John Paul II in November 1978 and return to his country, he wrote that his role is still to lead the Church in Poland. This role is extremely important because thanks to the fact that the Church exists, the nation will survive this trauma of communist experience. But then he wrote: a terrible trauma for me, an experience, because I must leave my friend, because a friend must stay here in Rome. Then he writes such a sentence in his journals, very interesting from the perspective of Poland's regaining independence, a sentence which sounded something like this: but at least the Church in Poland will certainly not have to explain anything in the Vatican. This is what was the essence, which was the most important thing for the beginning of the pontificate in this sense, that we as a nation, of course, did not understand it yet. We were totally surprised, although wrongly, because Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, as we know, was a universal figure in the universal Church known. It's just us as Poles who didn't know much about it. Of course, the balance of this pontificate cannot be done so easily, but we can probably risk such a thesis, not as historians, but as Poles, that in order to understand this balance it is necessary to return especially to one papal pilgrimage to Poland. It is necessary to return not to the first three which took place during the existence of the Polish People's Republic and of which we know that they contributed to what is in the resolution, to the destruction of the empire of evil and the world divided by the iron curtain, but everything indicates that it is necessary to return primarily to the fourth pilgrimage, the one from 1991, when Pope John Paul II came to Poland and I'm sorry for the thought shortcut, because of course you can test this saying I said was rejected. It is the only pilgrimage during which John Paul II was rejected by Poles. Therefore, at Kielce, when he returned to Rome, he uttered these dramatic words concerning the mother of his homeland. Let us return to these words, to this mother of the country and think about why John Paul II raised his voice to Poles for the first time and last time. In 2018, in the year of independence it is worth this cry, this testimony of John Paul II to remember to think about the balance of the pontificate of John Paul II, i.e. where we are today, or in 1991, or maybe we're still in a better place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u5	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! This House wouldn't have been here if it hadn't been for the election on June 4th. There would have been no victory if it hadn't been for the heroic attitude of the people of Solidarity throughout the entire martial law. It would not have been the solidarity itself had it not been for those who were its leaders and those who supported it. One of the most important pillars for Solidarity was Pope John Paul. II, his person and teaching. There would be no Pope John Paul II, if not for the formation from which it originated, and its extraordinary personality Karol Wojtyla, cardinal, metropolitan of Kraków. For those who had the opportunity to listen to him And we've all listened to him. His word was of fundamental importance, starting with this call to renew the face of this land, our land, which breathed hope and became an impulse to act for many of us, and ending with individual changes that took place in the hearts of Poles and of which we remember, we speak in families, but usually not publicly, because these are very intimate matters. That is why this resolution is what the Senate should do in preparing the anniversary of the election of Karol Wojtyla to the Capital of Peter. But it will always be something small, too insignificant, because the personality and teaching of John Paul II exceeds any resolution of any body. Therefore, without the slightest doubt that it is the right thing that the Senate will adopt this resolution, I would also like to remind you that beyond it is the great intellectual achievements of Pope John Paul II and the great news both of this message, which is addressed to the heart of each of us and of this message, which has a social character. For in the social teaching of the Church, to which John Paul II made his great contribution, there is among many of his encyclicals. the famous, significant encyclical of Centesimus annus, adopted in the 100th anniversary of the encyclical of Rérum novarum, in which is papal, our pope's vision of the state, a state based on three divisions of power, a thought based on the principle of the rule of law. And that's why I think that from Centesimus annus, today to us here, in the room Pope John Paul II dedicates to us in particular this sentence: 'The highest authority has the right, not the will of people.' Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u7	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Antoni Szymański made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla John Paul II to the capital city of Peter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much for your presence. Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 24, 25 and 26 October 2018. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the change in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 950. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously at its meeting on 26 September a draft resolution to be presented to the High House. Resolution on the change in the membership of the Senate Committee. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u9	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the membership of the Senate Committee; print No 950. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 were in favour, two abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 947 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 82 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 944 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator of the committee president, Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I have the honour to report on the Act of 13 September 2018 on farmers' cooperatives. One amendment was tabled during this meeting. The Commission accepted, supported all the previous amendments. The amendments of the applicant, one amendment, were not accepted. Please accept amendments which are supported by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Which ones? Which one? Number?]] Which she didn't take? Five o'clock.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u11	Five o'clock. Good. Does the senator of the applicant, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, still want to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 allows operators providing certain services to farmers to participate in farmers' cooperatives. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 2, 4 and 6 should be voted on together. They shall take into account all types of contracts for the marketing of agricultural fetuses and means of production. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3 gives the provision a wording that takes into account the role of cooperatives in the planned production. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 5 reduces the minimum number of members of farmers' cooperatives to 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 26 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 7 extends the vacathio legis provision introducing a real estate tax exemption. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 64 votes against, 16 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Farmers' Cooperatives Act. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 949 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. The Health Committee and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 945 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 Senators voted, 84 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Offences and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 943 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Report from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in print No 943 Z. The Commissions at its meeting on 27 September considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 26 September on the Law amending the Law In addition, the committees inform that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his proposal in point 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u13	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal and ask for the adoption of Amendment 5, which I proposed during the committee meeting. Unfortunately, I could not fully justify it because Senator Martynowski demanded that we move to the vote without discussion. Therefore, let me now try to convince you of this amendment, which has also been voted in favour of several senators from your group, and I draw attention to that. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns Article. 74 §1, 2, 3 and the new §3a introduced in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd like to say what's really going on here. The point is, if you're stopping someone suspected of committing a crime, and we're not talking about whether it's a misdemeanor that you're threatening to commit, for example. the punishment of arrest, or is it usually a misdemeanor, and I remind you that in Polish legislation a misdemeanor is even the transition to red light... So that's the kind of person you can stop when it's just a misdemeanor. And what happens in that case? In this case, in accordance with Polish law and with this article. 74, you can test a person detained e.g. psychological and psychiatric, she can be undressed, swabbed from the body, all procedures can be performed. Of course, it's not an officer doing it, it's just some doctor doing it in custody, but you can do all the procedures that involve the body, and they're not surgical procedures, so you can erase them from different parts of the body, etc., etc. And this §3a says that if a person who is accused of even the slightest offence, suspected of such an offence will refuse these procedures, then it can be applied to her... Such a suspect shall be called upon to submit to the obligations arising from the paragraphs cited, and in the event of refusal, the suspect may be detained and forced to be brought forward and applied to it... [[Voice from the room: Force.]] ...physical technical measures for incapacitation. I draw attention to the fact that these are e.g.... you can throw such a person on the ground, you can cuff her, etc., even with the smallest... [[Taser...]] [[Taser...]] You can, yes. [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] Interestingly, this should also draw your attention, for example, to such a person you can use a taser. When she refused to take the swab, and, say, she went through the red light and made... Here I pay attention to what this is for: only to legalize cases such as Igor Stachowiak, who was taken to the police station for a misdemeanor and treated with a taser. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that so far, as far as such cases are concerned, we have not once received a proposal from the Ministry of Justice which would increase human rights. Police laws are being increased all the time, and these laws are being restricted... There are other things in this bill that I won't talk about here anymore. There's no amendment... But I ask you very much to pay attention to this Amendment 5, which I have tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Rulewski? No. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I was still notified.]] I don't have... And you reported... [[I've filed a request from the minority.]] Yes? [[Yes.]] [[How?]] [[At the committee meeting.]] [[Now, at the committee meeting?]] [[At the committee meeting, I submitted a request from the minority. Besides, Mr. Chairman...]] But that's not in the committee's report. Mr. Senator, how was it? You're the chairman of the committee. [[Senator Robert Mamytkow: Only Senator Zdrojewska...]] [[A minority motion was filed by Senator Zdrojewska...]] [[I've been filing a motion...]] [[There's always...]] Yeah, but was he reported and voted out? Yes? 'Cause I'm gonna report... [[He reported the same...]] [[Always...]] [[Voice from the room: He could have reported the same.]] But did you support the motion or did you? [[He's always there, Mr. Marshal...]] Because if you were in favour, that's very good... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...because you can support... [[...it's always like he's reporting...]] ...but you reported Senator Zdrojewska. [[Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, no. No, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, it's just that one person is reporting, but...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh, wait a minute. President Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u16	It's just that one person is applying for a minority... [[He's reporting, but...]] ...but with the support of the other person. And I realized that you were just the other person. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u17	If there's four people, they can't have four, and if there's five, they can't... There's one person reporting. Mr. Senator, did you file a motion? Did you file a motion with the senator? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[...Answer already...]] Good. We've cleared that up. Senator Zdrojewska may speak again. It's possible. But the senator doesn't want it anymore. Mr. Senator Rulewski He doesn't want to either. Yes? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. I would remind you that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his application, paragraph 4 from print No. 943 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. It provides that the execution of penalties or criminal measures in accordance with the principles set out in the inserted Article. 10a can take place after 2 and not at least 3 criminal acts have been committed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you asking me to give you the results? 83 Senators voted, 82 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 2 harmonises the drafting of the reference provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 3 provides that the data of persons blamed will not be entered in the criminal record. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Correction denied. Amendment 4 is withdrawn, right? Correction number... [[Now, this important amendment.]] Mr. Senator, we're voting now. We don't talk, we don't comment, we don't disturb. It's always been that way, and it should be that way. Amendment 5 seeks to ensure that the application of direct coercion measures is only acceptable to a person suspected of committing a serious offence punishable by detention. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 45 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] [[Disgraceful!]] Amendment 6 is editorial. [[This is a disgrace.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not commenting on votes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Please report the results. The votes were... those who commented didn't vote. Good. We're giving you the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 7 is also editorial. Who's in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the Code of Offences and certain laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of a law without amendment. Senatski Print No.942 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 948 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission proposes that the adoption of the law be voted without amendment. At the same time, it informs that the only amendment tabled by Senator Jan Rulewski was withdrawn at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u19	Thank you very much. Would Senator Jan Rulewski like to speak again? [[No.]] I would like to remind you that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his request for point II in print no. 948 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any volunteers. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 61 votes against, 1 against and 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and the Act on healthcare benefits financed by public funds. We are returning to the ninth agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 946 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, adopted by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 9 June 2016. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 together with the Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2017. I would like to remind you that, after the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject so that it is possible to proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution at this Senate meeting. This report can be found in print No 779 X. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Fedorovich, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the proposal to reject the reports of the National Council and the National Media Council was rejected. Well, as a result of the 4:4 vote, the amendment was not accepted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u21	Thank you very much. Do the Senator and the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz submitted his conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski was the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media. [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. We are voting on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to Draft Resolution 779 X and, if this request is rejected, on the draft resolution proposed by the Commission in Print No 779 S. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to draft resolution 779 X. The amendment aims to reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council from its activities in 2017. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen... Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 26 for, 61 against. [[Voting No 24]] Now that we have rejected the amendment, we are voting on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media in print No 779 S. The Commission proposes that the report be adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please, we're just waiting a second... Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 59 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We are back to discuss item 11 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. I would like to remind you that, after the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to respond to the conclusions put forward during the debate and to prepare an additional report on the subject so that a third reading of the draft resolution could take place at that meeting. This report can be found in print No 774 X. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to present an additional report to the committee. [[Can I have it on the spot?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u22	At yesterday's meeting, the committee did not accept the amendment on rejection, the result of the vote was 4:4, and the amendment did not pass, it was not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u23	Thank you very much. Do the applicant senator and the other rapporteur want to speak again, i.e. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u24	Senator Jackowski. Can these 2 reports be treated so that it is good and even hopeless? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[On the platform, yes.]] [[Mr. Marshal, do you want me to answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u25	Well, Mr. Senator, there's a question... [[Well, what's that?]] ...there may be an answer and there may not be an answer. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u26	The Commission considered that these reports met the requirements. The tasks imposed on the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council have been properly carried out. I would like to remind you that the reports relate to the year 2017, either earlier or later. That was the committee's position. That's how I can answer the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u27	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? I can't see and I can't hear anyone. Thank you. We therefore proceed with the vote on information on the activities of the National Media Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to draft resolution 774 X and, in the case of rejection, on the draft resolution proposed by the committee in print No 774 S. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to draft resolution 774 X. The amendment aims to reject the information of the National Media Council about its activities in 2017. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 26 for, 60 against. [[Voting No 26]] In the face of the rejection of the amendment, we proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in print No 774 S presented by the Committee on Culture and Media. The Commission requests the adoption of information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 60th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined whether it would not be possible for the senator to deliver them at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's two, right? Chances are... Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Me?]] Yes. [[There's such a fuss, Mr. Marshal, that I didn't hear you call me.]] Yeah, but maybe for... There you go, Mr. Senator. [[I'm just gonna get myself a place to perform.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four brief senator statements. I hope I can fit in the time limit. The first statement is addressed to Mr Krzysztof Szczerski, the head of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic of Poland. Well, I have recently been privately staying in Armenia and the local environments, both Polish and Armenian, which are related to Polish, were quite moved by the information that during the meeting of President Andrzej Duda with President Erdoğan, President of Turkey, supposedly President Duda was to express his interest and wish to support the construction of a Turkish soldier statue in Krakow, and this monument would have such a shape that the Turkish horse drinks water from the Vistula. [[It's unacceptable.]] I hear there's been a conversation about this or a letter addressed to President Majchrowski so that President Majchrowski can find a suitable place for such a monument. It seems strange to me, especially since Armenian environments claim that a horse drinking from the Vistula means that Turkish soldiers want to return to Cracow. The whole thing seems quite improbable to me, but I would like to ask you for information and an answer, did you really take any action, or did you commit to something like this, or did you address President Majchrowski with such a request to locate this monument? I'll be grateful for your answer. [[We already have a dragon, Mr. Senator.]] The second statement is addressed to Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National Defence. This is the issue with which I was approached by a Polish Army officer who was also a Boy Scout. It says this: The year 2018 is a time of great anniversaries The 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, as well as the 100th anniversary of the uprising of ZHP. Scouts have been active in the fights for our country's independence. 100 years ago, this was appreciated by Marshal Piłsudski, who in order 184 of 15 November 1919 gave permission to scouts in active military service to wear a scout's cross as a commemorative badge, on the same basis as badges of former military formations and schools. The scout cross was to be worn on a military uniform at the height of two fingers above the center of the left pocket of the uniform. This order was confirmed a few years later by the Diary of Commands 22/1922 item. 439. This has not been regulated in the current legal order. So is the order of Marshal Józef Piłsudski still valid for scouts in active military service? Wouldn't it be good to appreciate the contribution of Boy Scouts in many areas of life over 100 years after Poland regained its independence, to regulate this issue? With these questions he asks, through me, my constituents and I are addressing Minister Błaszczak. And 2 statements to Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, representative of the government for persons with disabilities. First statement. I was approached by a citizen of my constituency with the following information. City Councillors passed a resolution on the fact that disabled people have to pay for parking in places designated for disabled people. The mere charging of people with disabilities raises doubts. But the city vagrants went even further and figured out, as this gentleman writes, that despite having a blue parking card, people with disabilities must buy the so-called. an identifier. And at this point the problems start because the identifier is assigned to the vehicle registration number. And I'm not the car, I'm the disabled person who writes this gentleman. And he goes on to say, I'm the one who's got two parking tickets for not having an I.D. on me. Other people with disabilities are punished as well. Such identifier shall be issued only for one registration number and blue card. I was, and I wanted to buy this ID, but I wasn't sold it because I don't only drive one car, and I don't have the ability to buy a few IDs because I only own one blue parking card. I would ask very much for interpretation in this matter so that we, people with disabilities, are not further punished for the legal bullshit we invented. With the same question I also address Minister Michalkiewicz. And a second statement. Mr. A approached me. T., residing in (...). Mr. A. T. has been amputating 2 lower limbs for 5 years. He's trying to get a driveway to a building that has 11 floors. The question is: at what time and according to which procedure Mr. A. T., a person with disabilities, or the administrator or owner of the building, will be able to apply for funding from the program +?Availability +? I also pass on this question as my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements. I am the first to address the President of the Council of Ministers. There are more and more comments in the information system about the need to bring foreign workers to Poland, who are to partially cover the labour deficit in our country. The public received information on bringing in workers from Asian countries, which raised wide-ranging comments. Citizens are turning to me, to my senator's office on this matter. Therefore, I ask for information on immigration policy of the Polish Government. I would also like to inform you how many people from outside the European Union received a permanent residence permit in Poland in 2015, 2016 and 2017. And the second statement, to the President of the State Water Farm Polskie. I ask for information on the activities of the State Water Farm in Poland due to the moored at the altitude of Czerniakowski Port in Warsaw a large swimming unit, which is half sunk and partially burned. From the information I received at the Warsaw City Hall, it appears that the area on which this facility is located belongs to the State Treasury and is on the Management Board of PGW WP. The subject has been sunk for months. And dangerously tilted. It poses a threat to the safety of thousands of people walking here in Warsaw and insidiously representing the place of the capital. In a situation of elevated Vistula or winter, the object will pose an even greater threat due to ice phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u31	Thank you, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński. Dear Prime Minister, Three months ago, I sent to the Prime Minister a statement in which I proposed the establishment of a museum of Polish war losses in Warsaw. In this statement I argued in detail why such a museum should be created. At the same time, I did not specify what war losses are involved, personal, material, territorial or classified, e.g. Only in culture. I meant all the losses that the Polish state and the Polish nation suffered as a result of the war and occupation during World War II, the loss, which is also important, caused by both invaders: the Third Reich and the Soviet Union. In my opinion, this museum should also describe the so-called. Lost benefits, i.e. the effects of World War II on the further development of our country and how it limited this development. Unfortunately, in his reply, the Prime Minister only limited himself to describing losses in Polish culture. This is an important but narrow piece of the issue. You may have suggested that my statement was addressed to you as Minister for Culture, but I was really referring to you as a guardian of national memory, the Minister for National Heritage, specifically appointing and running museums of national importance. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to repeat this time the full answer on the subject described in my original statement 3 months ago, i.e. on the museum of all the war losses that Poland suffered during and as a result of the Second World War, because your answer so far is fragmented and far insufficient. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, on taking appropriate measures to build a two-way national road No. 9 and the national road No. 42 connecting the city of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski with the expressway system in Poland. Prime Minister! A copy of the appeal addressed to the Prime Minister by dozens of entrepreneurs from the Ostrowice district, in which they ask for action from the Polish government, has been received in my senator's office. Entrepreneurs stress that as investors, suppliers and exporters over the last few years in the Ostrowiec district, they have opened their factories and started industrial production, creating jobs for nearly 5 000 people and thus affecting the economic situation of the city, region and country. The barrier to further development of entrepreneurship is seen in the insufficient transport availability of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie and the northern part of Świętokrzyskie voivodship. This state of affairs results, among others. from the technical state of the national road No 9 and its poor capacity, which negatively affects communication in the main transport corridor, which arises towards the S7 expressway or the planned road S74. Moreover, due to the location of the Ostrowice district and the serious economic problems of the towns, which were once the leading centres of the former Central Industrial District, and especially the differences in road infrastructure between the various regions of Poland, it would be necessary to return to the idea of building a two-way national road no. 9 and the national road No. 42 on a section of nearly 60 km. The investments mentioned here would certainly be a strong impetus for the development of entrepreneurship as well as for the development of the whole region. Prime Minister, I kindly ask on behalf of myself and entrepreneurs from the area of the Ostrowice district to take action to build a two-way national road No 9 and a national road No 42 connecting Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski with the expressway system in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-09-28-senat-65-3.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. Everyone. Yes? Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 60th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 10 minutes 10]]
