ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Daniel Milewski and Łukasz Schreiber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Łukasz Schreiber. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Health Committee at 3 p.m. 12. Parliamentary Group meeting The support of Youth Councils for the Units of the Territorial Self-Government will begin today at an hour. 12 or at the end of voting in the event of their delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u3	Thank you very much. High Seym! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have submitted an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 2029-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, printing No 2248, - on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2249. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. We're back on point... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We return to the review of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer the citizens' draft law in print 2212 to the Health Committee for consideration. In the discussion, a request for a second reading was made without delay, without referring the draft law to the committee. I will put this proposal to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Health Committee. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can't build a strong country without healthy citizens. It can be said that representatives of the citizens' legislative initiative have achieved the most important priority we are facing in order to improve the health system. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is thanks to the initiators of the citizens' legislative initiative that it is possible to increase health expenditure to 6,8% in the short term. The government hasn't done anything about this in two years. I would like to ask the applicants what priorities should first be met for the increased expenditure on health protection. At the same time, I would like to say that the Modern Posel Club fully supports the transition to second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u5	Thank you, sir. At the moment, you are asking Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform also believes that the citizens' initiative project should be debated today. In view of the long-standing debate on health protection and the dramatic financial situation in this area, as well as in the face of the strike by doctors and the ageing population, we believe that this area needs funding as soon as possible. The Civic Platform will therefore be in favour of moving to second reading and taking immediate care of this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the representatives of the citizens' initiative for bringing together two projects to improve the quality of health care, its availability for patients, the quality of the work of physiotherapists, doctors, rescuers, nurses over 400,000. signatures. The representatives of all the clubs spoke yesterday about supporting the citizens' initiative. Since there is such support, we have decided to apply for the immediate transition to second reading. This is a test. the credibility of the intentions of the especially governing. Because if the project is good, it is transparent and very well written, it is a project that is easy to understand, then it does not have to be debated very long, but it needs to be increased expenditure on health care. If the ruling majority is determined to increase expenditure on health care in Poland, shorten queues and increase availability, [[♪ The bell ♪]] vote in favour of an immediate transition to second reading. Otherwise, he doesn't want to accept this project, he just freezes it again. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u9	Thank you. There was a question addressed to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The committee is represented by Mr Tomasz Dybek. Would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Present and Future Patients! I've got some bad news for you. You're not immortal... [[Voice from the room: Neither do you.]] ...and like us, the static Poles, you will die. [[Yeah, of course.]] Yes, you will die five years earlier than the citizens of the Western European countries whose rulers are trying to ensure the right conditions for treatment. Imagine a man who's always been healthy and well. All of a sudden, he's fainted, you don't know what happened. He never thought it would happen to him, a disease, a weakness, and now he's lying there waiting for an ambulance. Every second you wait for an ambulance seems like an eternity. The thoughts come: Will she come? Is it going to work? Isn't there going to be a shortage of paramedics? Will there be any hospital beds? Will a busy and tired nurse be able to call a doctor? Will there be a doctor? Will he be able to come? Is he coming? Are there gonna be drugs? Thoughts are troubling. It's getting scary. [[Get to the point.]] When we get closer and look into the eyes of this sick man... [[What if his eyes are closed?]] ...then we'll see that it's this statistical Pole, it's you. It could be you. You, waiting in line for an office where doctors may miss it, for example. They took the advice of Mrs Hrynkiewicz and went abroad, or because of retirement age they stopped working. Are you okay with it when you see that you can change it, really heal it? Dear patients gathered in this House! The right protest of doctors, i.e. physiotherapists, electroradiologists, laboratory diagnostics, psychologists, speech counselors, nutritionists, and not only residents, has clearly proven the catastrophic situation in the protection of health neglected by all the rulers since the time of systemic transformation. So far, no government has been able to make radical decisions in terms of ensuring worthy conditions for the treatment of Poles. Despite the electoral slogans made by all the parties that citizens' health will be treated as top priority, nothing has changed except the growing bureaucracy. Nothing's changed. Dear patients gathered in this House! I stand before you now, not only as a representative of the Polish health service, but above all representing the society of the Republic of Poland, whose constitution in art. 68 obliges public authorities to ensure that citizens, regardless of their material situation, have equal access to public-funded healthcare services. And I ask you about this availability: Where is it? Is she real? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] If we don't realize that we're currently spending money on health care...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u11	Ladies and gentlemen... Wait a minute, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. And I ask your representative to answer the question, a specific question of Mr Owl. At the moment, there is no time for an exposé or a general speech. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u12	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u13	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This includes answers to questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u15	I'm asking you to answer the question. [[There's no limit.]] [[Voice from the room: Answers!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u16	Excuse me, is my time limited? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: The applicant's representative has unlimited time]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u17	It is the duty of the Marshal of the Sejm to keep the speaker talking about and on the subject, so I draw your attention. [[But this is the applicant!]] Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u18	Dear patients gathered in this House! If we don't realize... We are currently spending 4.67% on health care. GDP, and the minimum minimum recommended by the OECD is almost 7% GDP. Dear patients gathered in this House! Our citizens' bill amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision, under which almost 160 thousand have been signed. Poles, calls for an immediate process of increasing annual expenditure on health care in order to achieve this target by 2021 and beyond. 6,8% GDP and 5.2% this year GDP. In our citizens' bill, we propose the principle that funds corresponding to the increase in healthcare expenditure for a given year compared to the previous year are primarily allocated in the form of grants transferred to the fund for the payment of health care benefits. Dear patients gathered in this House... [[What was the question?]] [[What about the question?]] I present to you the citizens' bill... [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]] ...where it signed in two weeks almost 150,000. Poles who want them to receive constitutionally guaranteed health care. On behalf of all patients and those who are intimidated and healthcare professionals, I request that work be started on the adoption of the bill presented by us, which can help to heal the sick health system. Dear patients gathered in this House! It's time to say thank you. Urgent visit to a children's cardiologist in four months. We thank the politicians. Waiting for a diagnosis of breast cancer - only 37 weeks. We thank the politicians. Waiting for rehabilitation in the rehabilitation department - 12 months, and in the rehabilitation centre - 7 months. We thank the politicians. At least 1 000 medical personnel in Europe residents. We thank the politicians. 14 PLN per hour to save human life. We thank the politicians. A full 15 minutes for a patient, including 10 minutes for red tape. Thank you, the Ministry of Health. Dear patients gathered in this House! It's up to you. When making a decision, think about your children and your loved ones. Sooner or later, they'll be our patients. You have a chance to extend your life to yourself, to your parents, to your friends and to all of us, to your constituents. I appeal to you: do not let Poles die 5 years earlier than citizens of Western European countries. Don't let me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u19	I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee: I ask you to answer the question of the Member. [[Voices from the room: Answers!]] [[But what is it?]] You have a speech at the moment, and you do not answer the question, so I ask you to answer the question of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u20	I appeal to you: do not let Poles die 5 years earlier than citizens of Western Europe. [[He doesn't know the answer.]] Don't let them humiliate the patients standing in line, don't let them trample on the dignity of people saving lives. That pain in the ass. For many years, the tragic situation in health care has been growing. In a minute, we can't handle patching holes at our expense and something really blows up, but then it'll be too late. Support the citizens' bill - it will be good for all of you and for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u21	Of course, the question was the following: Will the proposals put forward in the citizens' project ensure the maintenance and proper functioning of... I'm summing up that question. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen... In any case, however, a request for a second reading was made in the discussion without referring the draft to the committee. I will put this motion to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Health Committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the application for accession immediately to the second reading of the draft law in print no. 2212, without referring to the committee, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 192 against - 231. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred the bill to the Health Committee. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Minister of Health about the results of talks with doctors residents and plans of the government related to staff crisis in the Polish health system, reported by the Poselski Modernzna Club, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the entry of the police into the premises of women's non-governmental organisations on the day after Black Tuesday, submitted by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the Minister of Infrastructure on the construction of the western ring road Szczecin, notified by the Kukiz Poselski Club15, - First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions in the reprivatization processes carried out in Warsaw and Poland in 1989 and in Poland in the years 1989 to 2016 (print No. 1691), submitted by Kukiz Club Poselski15, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the official visit of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Poland, in particular the reasons why Poland is the only country in the European Union which, following an authoritarian attempt to rebuild Turkey, accepts President Erdogan, and the nature of the Polish foreign policy towards Turkey, submitted by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the Minister - coordinator of special services on the role of minister in selecting candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, requested by the Modern Posel Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the outcome of the interviews with the resident doctors. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 192 voted against - 228, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the entry of the police day after Black Friday. [[Voices from the hall: Tuesday!]] Who of you is in favour of accepting the request to supplement - I apologise - the agenda for the item containing information from the President of the Council of Ministers on this matter, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The vote was 166 against - 223, with 12 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the Szczecin ring road. Who of you is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister of Infrastructure, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote in 197, against - 230. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a committee of inquiry. Who of you is in favour of the request to complete the agenda for this item, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 228, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on the visit of the President of Turkey. Who of you is in favour of supplementing the agenda by this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 169 voted against - 252, 6 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Who of you is in favour of accepting a request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister - the Special Service Coordinator on the role of Minister in this matter, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 237, with 23. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the Act on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2228. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2228, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 428, 1 against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules governing their movement through this territory. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Assistance Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2150. The question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The cost of living for homeless people in the DPS is from 3.8 thousand. Up to 5,000. PLN, and an average of PLN 1100 in the hostel. There is a risk that the municipalities, in order to save money, will direct such people to accommodation rather than to DPS, as the cost of living will be lower. How is the government going to counter this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u23	Would Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska like to answer that question? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 2150, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 427, 2 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Assistance Act. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation to them. Wenceslas Felczak. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2241-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Joint committees: the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs worked on the amendments tabled yesterday. As a result, the committees recommend voting against the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and voting in favour of the five amendments to the draft law. Of course, committees also recommend adopting the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u25	Thank you, sir. We will vote first on the minority proposal and the amendments, but first of all I will vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a modern club, we vote against this proposal because we do not agree to control the friendship between Poland and other countries from the top. We don't agree to that. We do not agree to spend 6 million a year on positions for law and justice colleagues. On the other hand, we appeal to the Prime Minister - it is a pity that he is not here today - to create a very necessary Polish-Ukrainian institute for many, many years. I don't know if you know... [[Polish-German will be.]] Polish-German is here. If you'd known, you wouldn't have said such a thing. [[Applause]] [[Your colleagues have prepared.]] We need the Polish-Ukrainian Institute very much, especially since there are now very bad relations between Poland and Ukraine. We call for it as a modern club. We need it. There are more than 1 million Ukrainians in Poland. You guys really need to think about this. Don't spend your money on your friends, just for people who really need it. [[Applause]] [[From your grant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u27	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 161 voted against - 260, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the minority proposal to Article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address PiS Members from Małopolska in a special way. In this amendment we propose to change the seat of the Institute from Warsaw to Tarnów. There are many reasons for the headquarters to be in Tarnów. Tarnów is the most Hungarian city in Poland, if you can say so, because of friendship, which is clearly there - the company of Hungarian friends has been operating since 1956, people have established cooperation. Not only was Józef Bem, but also the patron of this institution, Mr.Prof. Felczak was very closely connected with Krakow, with Małopolska. After his release, he was an employee of the Jagiellonian University, a professor of the Jagiellonian University. Rests at the Punch Birch in Zakopane. It should all be decided that you should [[♪ The bell ♪]] The state had the courage to support this amendment and supported local Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u29	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 191 against - 232, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 297 against - 126, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 389 against - 34, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 13 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once, in times of right past, we had an institute of Polish-Soviet friendship. Now, like this, the state, going all the time in this direction, with great sentiment to the Polish-Hungarian People's Republic, you are setting up an institute of Polish-Hungarian friendship. I perfectly understand that working with the government of Orbán for the PiS is essential. After all, it was the Hungarian government that assured PiS politicians that it would not agree that the European Commission would impose sanctions on Poland for failure to comply with the law by the Polish government. I wanted to ask: How much will it cost every year, apart from the 6 million, to keep this institute of Polish-Hungarian friendship? It's about an institution that fills two councils, because it's national and foreign. After the last cast of Orlen... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u31	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u32	...I daresay that's the only reason you're calling this... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u33	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 281 voted against - 144, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. There were 274 votes against - 151, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 17 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 276 against - 144, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very good that this institute is being created, but it's still not enough and it's happening slowly. As regards cooperation in the Visegrad Group region, we need a permanent institutional framework. As early as October, I proposed to your Marshal with an initiative, which also responds to the initiative of the Hungarians from Jobbik from that Parliament, to establish a permanent parliamentary assembly of the Visegrad Group states, because if we want to strengthen this cooperation in the Central European region, Central Europe, we need institutions which will be multilateral among these four countries, which may be extended by another and not just bilateral institutes. We need intensive student exchanges, we need to step up projects such as shared television or a shared message for all the countries of the Central European region, and I cordially call for that again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u35	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you and the High House that efforts have been made for several years to set up a parliamentary assembly of the Visegrad Group. I hope that this may still be the case during our term of office. This is about talking to representatives of four countries, actually apart from us, with three. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the committee meeting, we received very vague translations from representatives of the government, why such an institute, such a rank, must be established, subject to the President of the Council of Ministers. Among many translations there was also the fact that this was about commitments and the Polish-Hungarian agreement. So we understand what Prime Minister Orbán received from the Polish government - an institute that will actually be such a cap over forms of cooperation. However, I would like to know what Poland has received from Prime Minister Orbán. Because there was talk of a sister institution, only that Minister Dworczyk admitted honestly at the committee meeting, that unfortunately there is no closer information as to how this Hungarian institute is to function, what it is to do and how it is to be financed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u37	Thank you. Here you are asking for the floor of Minister Dworczyk, who directs the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Let me remind you that you asked for a very detailed provision concerning the statute of the foundation established in Hungary, and indeed I was not able to answer this particular question at the committee meeting, but I informed the president and the entire committee that it would be two sister institutions that, as far as the financial resources are concerned, the ones that were foreseen in Hungary for the functioning of this institution, that is the amount close to PLN 5 million, a budget similar to the budget that will be available to the institute that we are setting up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u39	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2241, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 269 voted against - 153, 11 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the actions undertaken in 2015 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. The question is asked by Agnieszka Progaj, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not gonna ask about all the negligence in 20 years because the card's been in place for 20 years. I'm gonna ask you about the commitment you made in this room two years ago, rejecting the Kukiz project15. It was a project submitted by the environment of people with disabilities, a project which we restored to the dignity of people with intellectual disabilities, we call them mentally impaired. We wanted them not to be incapacitated so that they could, for example. To go to the dentist. You've decided that the project has a legal defect and you're going to correct it. It's been two years, and nobody's done anything. In the words of Mrs Bartus, you have made a commitment to this speaker, so I ask you: When will you deal with this matter again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u41	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question is raised when the Government of Law and Justice will execute the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on the guardians of adults with disabilities. The scale of hypocrisy in this matter is shown by the fact that it was the Members of the Law and Justice who demanded this judgment. The judgment was delivered in October 2014. The Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, Minister Kosiniak, left the bill and money ready in the 2016 budget to implement this sentence. It's been over two years, you've been silent, you're running away from these questions, you're not executing the Constitutional Court's judgment. People began to pursue their rights before the courts. The courts are judging these benefits, which only confirms that these people deserve it. So when will you begin to respect the rights of persons with disabilities and implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which you requested? Here's the scale of hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u43	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I am pleased to inform you about the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted by the resolution of the Sejm on 1 August 1997. Each year the resolution obliges the government to prepare information on how the government, ministries, central offices implement the provisions of the Charter. It shall contain descriptions of actions implemented, continued or undertaken in 2015 and 2016 by ministries and offices within the framework of the substantive competences and statutory powers for the exercise of the rights laid down in the Seym Resolution. The Social Policy and Family Committee adopted the 2015 report on 19 October 2016 - 21 votes in favour, 2 votes against, 7 abstentions. In December 2017, the committee with no votes against adopted the Government's information on the implementation of the Charter in 2016. The information was prepared on the basis of information collected in individual ministries and offices. Describes the actions taken, describes the facts. I am surprised that Member of the Civic Platform has objected to the adoption of information on the actions taken by the government. Of course, we are critical of the realization of the rights of people with disabilities during the Civil Platform's rule, while information has been prepared, like all previous ones. For the past 20 years, the Sejm has accepted information about the implementation of the Charter every year. The voice of opposition to the facts is, I don't hide, rather curiosity. I ask the High House to adopt the report as adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u45	Mr Piechota - corrigendum... But the minister didn't speak, he didn't quote your words. [[Voice from the room: How can I not?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the information contained in print 855, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 159 voted against - 246, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We return to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland about the actions undertaken in 2016 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the information. The question is asked by Agnieszka Progaj, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, for 20 years it's standard that you're bragging about what you've done, but you can't judge the effects if you don't write what you're going to do, how much it's going to cost, so it's obvious that we're just bragging and doing something. But I'm gonna ask you again about commitments two years ago. One of the objectives of this Charter is social security, worthy of social security. Care allowance - PLN 153. He hasn't even moved a dollar in two years, so I'm asking you about the things you've made a commitment to. You have committed that you will compensate for the benefits that the judgment will be enforced when you improve the case law. 2 years and we still do not have good case law on people with disabilities. I'm asking you what you've committed to and what you haven't done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u47	Thank you. I am merely reminding you, Madam President, that we are talking about action in 2016. [[Yes.]] Please ask about it. The question is asked by Sławomir Piechot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u48	High Seym! During the last 1.5 months of 2015, in six weeks of your first governments, you have hit an education involving disabled children, you have hit civilian service, throwing away the preferences of hiring disabled people, throwing away the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which you so carefully sought, and in 2016 your President Kwiatkowski began to blow up his flowers. A tiny flower was choosing a new logo of the rehabilitation fund, President Kwiatkowski chose a flower, but a thicker flower, which is still waiting for an explanation. This is a contract for which the state rehabilitation fund will pay PLN 27 million. President Kwiatkowski made a deal with his friend and even bragged about it on Facebook. The Fund concluded a lease agreement for 10 years, which it will most likely never benefit from, but PLN 27 million from the state rehabilitation fund will disappear. What does the Law and Justice government say? Who's gonna settle this case? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's gonna give people with disabilities the 27 million transferred to a friend? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u49	Thank you, sir. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the whole debate on these two points, i.e. In 2015 and 2016, you were hiding yourself from the fact that this is just information about what the government did. I will read the first point of the card: the most important actions leading to optimization of the projects undertaken in order to realise the rights of people with disabilities. We're back to the Constitutional Court's judgment. Minister, this is your request to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the law adopted by the Civic Platform. You criticized them, you went out with people with disabilities on the streets. You explained that if you took power, you would be with them to execute the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. You were two years old, it's been two years, and there's absolutely no word in either information. In the committee there is a law, which the Modern Law has drawn up, which amends these rights, evens the provision of carers of disabled persons. A year and a half in a seym freezer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't you guys doing the right thing? Why aren't you implementing solutions that are really waiting for the environment of people with disabilities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u51	Thank you, Member. That's what I'm telling you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, there is no seym freezer, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Secondly - listen - this draft law is on the Parliamentary Committee, so I ask Members who are on the committee to deal with this issue. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If there is no seym freezer, I would ask you very much to unfreeze the so-called project. Law 1066 on the so-called "law'. Brotherly help, which unfortunately has been in this freezer for almost 2 years. But in the context of this matter and this debate, I have a question about the rights of people with disabilities: When will the relevant parliamentary committees deal with the proposal to abolish eugenic abortion, which discriminates against the most vulnerable persons with disabilities or potentially disabled, i.e. unborn children? Yesterday, the committees didn't do it again, and 800,000 did. citizens signed an application to abolish eugenic abortion as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u53	Please. This is just a little bit different, Mr. President. How am I supposed to answer that? [[Voice from the room: Tell the truth.]] The Minister will answer. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members for using the pretext for discussing the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to remind the High House of the situation of people with disabilities, that people with disabilities are among us, that they need support and assistance in many areas of life in order to implement their rights. This is certainly an important issue and certainly the voices that have been cast here are important. On the other hand, today we are discussing information about government activities in 2015 and 2016, as regards the implementation of the Charter as regards the competences and responsibilities of individual ministries. I am very pleased that Mr Piechota is critical of the Prime Minister's government, because she was in charge in 2015. [[It's about information.]] I am very pleased that you say that the law was adopted by the Constitutional Tribunal, that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was in 2014 and that for 1.5 years the Government of the Civic Platform has done nothing about it. I am very pleased that the Member gives me an excuse to say what the Law and Justice Government has done for people with disabilities for two years. However, this will not apply to 2015 and 2016. I am pleased to say that we are currently working on a draft law on case law, where there will also be a provision on the determination of independence, which will enable the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal to be carried out. After all, he knows very well that this applies to people with disabilities, but also to people who are independent because of illness, age or other reasons. We are in the High House, we need to know how many people use it and how much it will cost. And as an experienced parliamentarians, the Member knows this very well. Ladies and gentlemen, it would take a long time to talk about what the Government of Law and Justice has done for two years and compare it to what the governments of the Civic Platform have done for eight years, but this is not the subject of this discussion. The subject of this discussion is information on the implementation of the Charter, information which was adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family with the votes of the Members of the opposition. Mr President, you are also a member of this committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u55	Mr Sławomir Piechot as corrected, right? There you go. I would only ask you to refer to the Minister's information for 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u56	Mr. Marshal, I know the rules. This reminding us of the rules is highly inappropriate, highly inappropriate. [[Applause]] The Minister, on the other hand, maybe he didn't hear me, or maybe he didn't understand me. The Government of the Civic Platform ended its term of office in 2015. Did he leave a bill? He left it. [[Applause]] Did he put money in the draft budget for 2016 for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? He typed it in. And what did the representatives of the PiS government begin to do? The Minister didn't want to know that government members had started to park in places for people with disabilities. Yes? [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It shows the scale of arrogance. What year? Well, in 2016, when you were in charge of President Kwiatkowski, who pulled 27 million from PFRON. In 2016. And our bill, which we left in 2015, and included money in the budget for the execution of this sentence - where are they? In the basket, in the freezer, in the deep drawer. And that's why we think that as early as 2015, in the last few weeks of 2015, you started to devastate the basis for the decent treatment of people with disabilities built for 8 years. [[Applause]] [[Why didn't you bring it in?]] Over the next few weeks and months, these grounds for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities are consistently devastated. Disabled people, defend your rights because the Government of Law and Justice ignores them in a demonstrational way. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u57	Thank you, sir. Minister of Education Anna Zalewska would like to speak. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u60	In addition to a number of activities that we carry out in the Ministry of Education for Children, attention, with special needs... [[That's not true!]] On this one, among others. is to talk about inclusive education and inclusive education. [[You're not doing anything.]] In addition to the fact that for the first time we blocked money for children with special needs and no government can take this money for any activity... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] I must refer, ladies and gentlemen, to what you accuse me of. First of all, I immediately apologized, second of all, the car didn't park, it just didn't stop, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Third, police proceedings are over. [[Voice from the room: Yet!]] There was a change of pace, the police pointed out this place. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Shame, really, shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u61	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the information contained in print 1802, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 179 voted against - 235, with 12 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the government draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social housing, shelters and houses for homeless people, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2243-A. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Council of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present an additional report by the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other laws, print No 2192. Ladies and gentlemen! A second reading took place yesterday, during which seven amendments were tabled. The Commission has examined these amendments and recommends that the High House reject these amendments and adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u63	Thank you. The amendments tabled by the committees will be voted first. Let me remind you, it's printing 2243. All amendments were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending law containing amendments to the Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. In the first amendment to Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of the common part for the points referred to in that paragraph. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns the protection of tenants. Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Act sets out who should be particularly protected, namely pregnant women, minors, disabled persons, pensioners, beneficiaries of social assistance and unemployed persons. Until now, the court has not been able to issue an eviction ruling for these people so that they can live in a place other than that used to be. The law adds a record, I quote: or their material situation allows to meet the needs of the dwellings in its own scope. We believe that the added entry is ambiguous and can be interpreted to the detriment of tenants who should be particularly protected. Therefore, we request that the added entry be deleted as unnecessary and harmful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u65	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 167 votes against - 248 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 1a and maintain in the existing wording Article. 24. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention to the regulation, because you want to delete the article. 24, which makes it clear: the right to a social establishment is not granted to a person who takes up the premises voluntarily and to whom the court has ordered the emptying of the premises. It's clearly warned here that self-loathing doesn't pay off. You are converting this provision into the following: the court may rule on the right to conclude a contract for the rental of a social establishment to a person who has taken up a legal seat if the granting of that right would be particularly justified in the light of the principles of social cohabitation. Ladies and gentlemen! Such records even encourage self-inflicted burglaries into municipal premises. I don't think that's the intention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the creators of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u67	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 158 against 261 and 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 19f applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 3. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u68	Ladies and gentlemen! The lease, the institution of the institution's lease, also introduced by the National Property Resources Act into the law we are talking about, causes homelessness. You know that very well, and I'm surprised that... You have such a great opportunity because we're updating this bill here to make it right, by the way. Institutional hire leads directly to homelessness, because the tenants must commit that they will not be entitled to social housing or temporary accommodation. And here you're making big, high-flying slogans for all of us, how you want to take care of the weak, and when you have a great opportunity to fight homelessness, you don't take advantage of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u69	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 193 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 21c paragraph. The fourth sentence of the proposal is that, in the absence of a declaration, the municipality should be able to raise the rent to 6%. the replacement value of the premises on a yearly basis and not, as proposed by the committees, up to 8% That's the value. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 5 concerns sanctions for failure by the tenant to declare the amount of income at the request of the municipality. In this case, according to the project, the municipality may increase the rent to 8% the replacement value on a yearly basis. Currently, the Act talks about the possibility of increasing the rent to 3% of the replacement value without justification and above 3% in justified cases. We propose to reduce sanctions to 6% of the replacement value of the premises, i.e. twice the value of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants. It's still gonna be a severe punishment. The government believes that it could introduce more restrictions, i.e. immediate termination of the contract. We propose, however, that the government be more gracious and accept our amendment. It should be borne in mind that the amendment we are talking about is both a major change in the management of municipal housing and a change which must be made in the tenants' mentality due to the continuous increase in rents [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to verify their earnings, as well as to present statements to the municipality if they earn a little more.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u72	That is why we are asking you to accept our amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u73	Thank you, Member. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The obligation to declare revenue and assets will enter into force not later than 2,5 years after the entry into force of this law. First of all, the municipalities and everyone have plenty of time to prepare for this. Secondly, if there is no rigour for making declarations, no one will make those declarations. The municipalities would not have any instruments in terms of the housing economy. That's the second argument. And the third is the entitlement that the municipality gets, which means it can maximize rent to 8%, but only in the period during which this person does not submit this declaration. If that person makes a declaration, the rent will be due to his or her income. So it's not like if someone doesn't make a declaration, they're gonna spend their whole life paying higher rent. This is a certain rigour forcing these people to make a declaration. Otherwise, we'd have an empty recipe. So I absolutely do not understand here the position of the state, which does not allow municipalities to rationally manage this scarce goods, which are municipal premises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u75	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 192 voted against - 233, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 21c paragraph. 4 applicants propose to reduce the household income of the tenant determined for the calculation of the rent by a specified formula. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 6 concerns the calculation of the rent if the tenant exceeds the income criterion adopted in the municipality. And so on. in Warsaw for one person the income criterion is 1900 PLN, for two, three, four people living in one farm - 1400 PLN. We believe that the algorithm adopted increases the rent too much in relation to the additional revenue generated. Based on the calculations according to the proposed algorithm, according to the table presented by the Ministry, this is as follows. If two people live in a 50 m2 communal apartment and do not exceed the income criterion, they pay the rent of PLN 370. If they earn an additional 500 PLN over the limit, the rent will be increased by 250 PLN. If they make $1,000. zł, rent will be increased by 500 zł, which means they must allocate 50% revenue generated above the criterion. I find it demotivating and asocial, so we propose to halve the amount charged. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rents without such drastic increases to make it worthwhile for the tenants...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u77	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u78	...get a better paid job and get out of poverty slowly. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Give the rocks back first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u79	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 194 voted against - 229, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 21c paragraph. 5 applicants propose that the rent should not exceed 6% the replacement value of the premises on a yearly basis and not as proposed by the committees - 8% That's the value. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 192 voted against - 224 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that the proposed amendment is intended to allow local governments to manage the municipal housing resource more rationally and effectively, which should, in the long term, contribute to the provision of housing aid to a wider group of residents, the Civic Platform will vote in favour of the bill. However, we believe that the essence of the change is always in the detailed provisions, hence our amendments, as well as the suggestion that in further work on the bill change the algorithm for calculating rent rates to be more favourable to tenants, reduce maximum sanctions for not making a statement on income, as well as change institutional rental records. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u81	Thank you. Mr Anna Milczanowska, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Deputy Minister whether it is true that the local authorities are waiting for this bill, that we are increasing six times the amount for the construction of social housing, municipal housing, accommodation, temporary housing to the amount of PLN 6 billion, that we want to pay back 170 thousand in this way. new apartments, that there are expectations that - and such a solution we also apply in this law - there is the possibility to co-finance the construction of new residential buildings, social buildings with EU money, and that this is what the Polish government is waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u83	Thank you. Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, this is a groundbreaking solution that we propose in terms of the economy as scarce goods as municipal premises. About 170 thousand are missing in Poland. Locations. If we count at least three people, it is over 0.5 million people who are waiting in line for this scarce commodity. That is why we are introducing solutions that give the possibility to raise the rent to wealthy people, because these apartments are not for wealthy people, they are for those who wait in line and meet the criterion of income. We don't want to throw those wealthy people out of these apartments, but let them pay higher rent. Higher rent gives higher income to municipalities, which will allow more of these premises to be built. We allocate over PLN 6 billion to help local governments. There are new solutions, there is a 20% grant, there is the possibility of building temporary rooms, there is no eviction on the pavement. These are the solutions that local governments are waiting for. The reservations made by the State are, of course, debatable, because any increase in rent is inconvenient. But we have to remember that first of all, we have to protect those who are waiting in line, those 0.5 million people who have low incomes and can't afford to pay a rent higher than the municipal rent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u85	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2243 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 421 against - 8, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. We proceed to the third reading. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2237. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2237 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 422 against 2, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. We would like to refer to item 19 on the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print no. 2205. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print no 2205. In the first place, I will put the amendment tabled for the draft resolution to the vote. I would like to remind you that it proposes adding a paragraph concerning the doubling of EU direct payments to Polish farmers. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party has tabled an amendment so that Polish farmers have doubled their EU subsidies. [[Applause]] This is a way out for Members of the Law and Justice. Yes, folks, because it was you during the election campaign that promised Polish farmers that if you came to power, you would double the EU subsidies. This amendment will help you very much, because we support it, this is a good resolution. On the other hand, I would like to remind you and ask you why your members of law and justice in October Ub. They voted in the European Parliament against the resolution on not to cut Polish agriculture in the budget after 2020. You can call it hypocrisy, duality, or self-doubt. Here you go, the choice is yours. Question: "Will you support this amendment?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when will you fulfill your promises that you will double the subsidies for Polish farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u87	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just as PSL cares about Polish agriculture, we see it now. We also know how scandalously the last CAP has been negotiated. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: We no longer rule.]] Although such a question should be asked here, in fact, the Minister's answer should be answered. Where will the Minister stay in these negotiations? It may turn out that this resolution will be as empty as the 2012 resolution. We here as a parliament support the minister, the minister will negotiate, and yesterday the minister talks about some compensation. How sure is that? It should be at the level of German subsidies, not less. And it may turn out that it will be as uncertain as the previous coalition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u89	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[There isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! [[But what is it?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[She doesn't know what's going on.]] Yesterday we had a long debate about new negotiations on the common agricultural policy. We haven't really heard from you until today what your goals are. In the election campaign, then in your exposé your Prime Minister, the other, and also Members from this speaker repeatedly said that Polish farmers cannot be treated so unevenly in Europe. But we still don't understand what your purpose is in this unequal treatment. So if the Minister permits and can't set his own goals, I'll remind you of the goals of the Modern Club. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Poland had the highest development budget in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy and this leader must remain. Poland had the 5th budget of the common agricultural policy after France, Germany, Spain and Italy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Who negotiated this? The Civic Platform.]] If that wasn't enough, we're counting on the first three, and we're asking you not to go back to the country without a podium. [[Applause]] In recent negotiations [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland, but also Latvia Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary have increased their budgets...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u92	...and countries like Germany and Denmark had a minus 12% And this tendency must be... [[Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u93	Thank you, Member. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u94	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! We wish the government to negotiate more money than our coalition did. Let me remind you that this was EUR 42.5 billion. We cross our fingers for the Polish government to make this amount higher, [[Applause]] because the needs of Polish farms are enormous. Assuming that soon we will implement a bioinsurance programme across the country, I will remind you that each farm must bear a cost of 30,000. zł and that's what you're gonna need money for. That is why this budget must be higher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u95	Please. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel, asks for the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first like to thank Parliament that such a resolution will be adopted. In our previous term of office, at our request, Law and Justice, such a resolution was adopted. Unfortunately, the government didn't take advantage of it. I think in a situation like this, if Parliament accepts... [[You're not coming. You're not coming back.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] But according to the club statements, this resolution will be adopted. It is very important that a number of points from our objectives, which we set in the negotiations, are supported there. I'll start with the modern lady. Our goal is clear, the objective of agricultural policy on the international stage: a level playing field, so that all farmers in Europe have a level playing field. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And what do you mean by that - there are a number of elements in this area. This is the whole EU law, food law on GMOs and plant protection products. This is the whole conglomerate. On the other hand, as regards the proposal and amendment of the Polish People's Party, I regret that Mr Kosiniak-Kamish made this request several times. I asked the president yesterday. Let him show at least one statement from the representative of the PiS about doubling the payments. And I think he's finally gonna stop saying that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I can see why. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] On the other hand, I would like to explain to the members of the PSL, the supposed-boy party, to understand what the system is, which means equal subsidies, gentlemen, because you don't understand it. [[Applause]] You. this you do not understand, because in the European Union the first difficulty, gentlemen, is that in the recent negotiations Poland had 21,2 billion euros for subsidies... [[You're not shooting, Minister.]] ...and you have reduced it by PLN 2400 million, transferring these 9800 from modernization to subsidies. This will be difficult to negotiate because the European Commission will propose 18.8 instead of 21 this starting position. [[Voice from the room: What then?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to understand... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - I am talking to the Polish People's Party which took part in negotiations in 2003. - which means equal subsidies, as the national envelope was created. It's not difficult, but you have to listen and reach out to experience, unless you have no awareness of it. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The envelope was created in this way: equal payment, i.e. for some kind of production. In the case of wheat, each country received EUR 63 per hectare times the number of hectares of reference yields. And here we were cheated in 2002, because the worst reference year - 30 q per hectare - was adopted for Poland. For example, the Italians had 60, the French had about that. Gentlemen, this is how the envelope was created. We're talking about moving away from historical values. There should be a level playing field between different activities. [[So what's it gonna be?]] Second thing, gentlemen. In 1992, as MacSharry's reforms were implemented, the European Union was governed by the principle of production subsidies, i.e. they were paid to one cow, to one pig, to one hectare. And this year these sums as historical were passed on to farmers. There is another system in Poland, an area system. The envelope was established on the same principles as there, not as Poland suggested: to be a SAPS system. You must understand that the level playing field and the level playing field of subsidies apply to the different types of production. Let me stress once again that from the envelope of PLN 3 billion established in this faulty way you have paid PLN 2.5 billion for free. Mr Sachajko, what will be the minimum amount. I would like to say to you - this has been said on several occasions in the committee - that when it comes to funding or financial perspective, financial elements, the size of the funds are determined by prime ministers, the European Council, and here the Minister is merely an advisor to the Prime Minister and the Government, while he represents us in the European Council, who is taking decisions in this regard. So, Mr President, this is the situation. As for Mr. Plocke's question, it's not true. Where did you get this €42 billion in the previous financial perspective? I don't know how you know these amounts. Let me tell you this: 9.8 billions were available for rural development. Let me remind you that in the previous perspective it was 14.3 billion. On the other hand, for direct payments, there should be 21.2 billion, 18.8. So that's $28 billion in total. If we include inflation at prices from 2013, it will amount to PLN 32 billion. So that we are opposed as a government of this amendment. It is simply due to a misunderstanding of the whole negotiation procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u97	Thank you. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank you for this discussion on the committee. I would also like to say that the discussion was very substantive about this resolution, but as for this amendment, which was tabled by the Polish People's Party, I would like to say that this is the greatest hypocrisy that Polish People's Party can show that it is possible to... I'm even surprised you can be so hypocritical about politics. I understand it's the opposition, I understand that the opposition can criticize, but this is the greatest hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you: in 2002, before 2004 Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Kalinowski.]] I already asked from this platform, but once again I will ask: Does the Polish People's Party know who it is - sorry - Jarosław Kalinowski? [[Applause]] It was he who negotiated the entry into the European Union and he negotiated matters of Polish agriculture. Jarosław Kalinowski. He negotiated the amounts that are unfair to the Polish farmer and are discriminatory to the Polish farmer. And he, ladies and gentlemen, as a young farmer, lied to me because he said that after the first negotiations there would be an equal payment, but it was never evened out. And in the second perspective, who was negotiating? Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember who negotiated in the second perspective? Of course it's PSL, Minister Kalemba. I don't know if you remember the way he ate that cake so beautifully that he negotiated the best terms. He tricked a Polish farmer, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 'Cause in the second round... [[Applause]] [[Two whole years...]] ...there is less money in the second pillar for the Polish farmer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now the Polish People's Party is making an application... [[Hypocritical.]] ...double the surcharges. This is hypocrisy. I can't even imagine how you can practice politics in this way, how much you can be a fraud, because it was you who robbed a Polish farmer. For 20 years Polish agriculture was responsible in Poland for the Polish People's Party, [[Applause]] previously ZSL. What is the situation in Polish agriculture, it is your fault. We have to do everything right now... [[Finish it.]] ...to make things right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u99	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, correction.]] Who among you is in favour of the amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 184 voted against - 228, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u100	PiS does not want to double subsidies for Polish farmers. The height of hypocrisy, the height of hypocrisy. [[Applause]] You cheated, you exploited the Polish village, now you're rejecting it. [[Shame!]] The height of hypocrisy and hypocrisy was to say: we can deal with ASF. Prime Minister Morawiecki deciphered this shortcut, but out of the 3 ASF fires, when you took over the government, there are 107 fires and ASF crossed the Vistula. The height of hypocrisy, you couldn't handle ASF. The peak of hypocrisy: we're going to lower everyone's retirement age. No, not everyone after the election. You raised the farmers by five years every day, changing the President's bill. [[Applause]] The height of hypocrisy and the height of hypocrisy. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Dude, well...]] The peak of hypocrisy and hypocrisy is also to talk about guaranteed minimum prices. After the elections there are no minimum prices, no guaranteed prices. There are the lowest prices for most agricultural products. The height of hypocrisy, the height of hypocrisy. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You don't want to change the Polish countryside for the better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You exploited, cheated and rejected the Polish village. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u101	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a shame I couldn't correct the Minister's statement, because the Minister's trying to blur the painting a little bit here. Not a little bit, I guess. If you are talking about levelling out the conditions in the first pillar, but in the second pillar you will bring less money, please do not lie to Polish farmers that whatever you have gained for them, because precisely this is the point that Poland has one of the highest, not one of the highest, has the highest development budget. Some countries spend 10% on this. our budget under the common agricultural policy, and we as much as 30%. If you come and say globally: great success, because we have the same subsidies to wheat as Germany, but you will lose 30% The development budget, please don't come back, because it will be a shame and a disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u103	Thank you. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! Take Minister Jurgel to the dumb bench because the president was screaming about double the surcharges. Mr Jurgel is not enough that he does not have such ambitious goals, he does not even want to agree to them, he has yet led his lack of action to the onset of the ASF epidemic. Right now, we're gonna have to kill 2 million pigs and take down a few hundred farms, and Mr. Jurgiel comes out here and says he cares about farmers. It's hypocritical. You can talk long, we know that, even seven hours, you've done it in this room before. But what does that say? You are afraid to go to the Union and negotiate, which is why you need to strengthen Parliament in such a way that you can prepare for failure. Today [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are talking about preparing for the defeat of Minister Jurgiel in the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u105	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask - there is no Prime Minister, but maybe on behalf of the Prime Minister you will respond to Minister Jurgiel - what amount he will recommend to the Prime Minister when it comes to common agricultural policy, because I understand that the Prime Minister is negotiating this at the end, but the recommendation, I hope, will come from the Minister. And that is the question: What size will be recommended? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u107	Thank you. Mr Michał Cieślak, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The case concerns agricultural subsidies, so I have a question as to whether anyone in this room knows how the area subsidies for agriculture are charged, on what basis, under which system. Does anyone know? Nobody knows because the rules that have been... [[Even Jurgel doesn't know.]] ... Because PSL... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...he agreed to such a system of payment for Polish agriculture, which is not possible to carry out in the way that they are talking about now. If the system used 66 euros to 1 t of grain per hectare to calculate payments by reference yield, and if you say that we are going to double the area payments, then we have to start by saying that today according to the system you agreed to, we have to double the average yield of cereals per hectare, because in such a system... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But that is exactly what I was talking about.]] ...is charged today an area payment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Michael!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u109	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was referring to this question, but one of the Members and the other Member from the Polish People's Party claim that we were talking about doubling the subsidies. Gentlemen, the Polish village is a village of honor, you want to represent it. I have told you, Mr President, several times: show the statement of the Law and Justice policy on doubling the payments. We talked about equal conditions of competition and equal subsidies. And an equal surcharge... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, equal subsidies, you have to understand that too... [[You're lying!]] I also talked about what it means: equal subsidies per type of production. But if someone doesn't want to, they won't understand. So, Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish, what you're saying is a scam, you're misleading the public. Never did any of the politicians of Law and Justice, of those I've been watching, talk about doubling the subsidies. Just don't lie to me. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] The second point in terms of retirement age - please tell me, Mr President: What retirement age since 1 January 2018 according to your law, Platforms and PSL were to have Polish women? 67 years old. We've been down for 60 years. Do you understand that? [[Ladies, about agriculture.]] I think you understand that. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] You've got 67 in the law. At 60. As far as other questions concerning rural development are concerned, you must know that the European Union has been assessing rural development for 14 years, and that is the basis for decisions on the level of resources. We are now negotiating in this area. And it is not true what other politicians say, that our government is not active. Only in January I met 16 European Union agriculture ministers, we signed an agreement within the Visegrad Group, we signed an agreement within the Baltic countries, now there will be a conversation with the Minister of France, there has already been one, while we are waiting for the German Minister to be elected to join the Weimar Triangle and also to adopt a common position. As regards what Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz repeats, minimum prices - there is currently no possibility of introducing minimum prices in the economy in Poland. We are talking about reference prices and, Mr President, you must understand that too. But there's one thing I have to tell you here, I told you yesterday. The local government program of PSL is very good. Why? According to PSL. Especially Polish peasants. Point 5 states that PSL will buy 10-acre farms from farmers and transfer them to the Treasury and lease the land. So that you return to the 1950s to expropriate Polish peasants. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, I submit a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u111	Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print resolution 2205 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 428, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm adopted a resolution on the negotiation of the rules for implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion, Mr Marshal.]] We refer to point 20 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at the Doha Convention of 11 December 1997 on 8 December 2012. We proceed to the third reading. [[Game in the O.R.]] The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2136. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2136 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 3, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha on 8 December 2012. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2161. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the entire draft Print Act 2161, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws (prints No. 1424, 2029 and 2029-A) - third reading. I ask Mr John Duda to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws, print No 1424. The joint committees at their meeting on 6 February 2018 considered 9 amendments tabled at second reading by the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15. Following an in-depth examination of the amendments tabled, the hearing of agricultural and environmental organisations that have participated in the drafting of the bill since the start of the process, the committees have negative opinions on the amendments from 1 to 8. According to the majority of Members, these amendments will have no impact on increased safety when it comes to GMO cultivation. The solutions proposed in the draft are sufficient and comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. On the other hand, amendments 2, 3 and 4 on insurance of potential crops would require amendments to other legislation. The positive opinion of Amendment 9 changes the lower limit of criminal liability from 3 months to 2 years for the release of GMOs into the environment as a result of the operation of a genetic engineering plant without the required authorisation. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 2029-A. Thank you, by the way, for being involved in the work of agricultural and environmental organisations, although this has been very different. I would like to thank the Minister for Sweden-Lewandowski and his legal team for their substantial contribution to the final shape of the project. I would like to thank Members for their almost one year of difficult work in the Emergency Sub-Committee and in the Joint Committees on the Protection of the Environment and Agriculture. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the Act on Micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms from print No 2029. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u113	Thank you, sir. The amendments presented in the report will be voted first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act concerning amendments to the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms. In the first amendment to Article. 49e paragraph. The applicant shall propose that the wording of point 5 (4) be amended as follows: d. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We started a series of amendments that we tabled to the GMO Act. My question is addressed to the rapporteur. Why are you sure that the solutions used are sufficient? I remember that exactly the same was true of the rapporteur at the first draft law, where there was a record of 3 km. Thanks to the social side, we increased it to 30 km. Never too many safeguards, it is about not spilling GMOs in Polish fields. Why don't you let a farmer who wants to produce GMOs have to present a plan for 10 years, show what will happen to GMOs in its field? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u115	Please. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment is a social amendment, but it also directly concerns agriculture. That's my question. Minister Jurgel, didn't 1.5 million farms in Poland really understand what you promised them, or is it a syndrome: because they lied? [[Applause]] Didn't you know what you said, did you lie to them, that you would increase your direct payments? [[That's not the bill.]] That's the question to Minister Jurgel. Minister, stand in this House and say clearly to farmers: No, I will not only bring more money, but maybe I will bring less money than my predecessors. [[Applause]] [[The government lied to the Polish peasant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u117	Thank you. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the government at this point is Deputy Minister of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 191 votes against - 218, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 49e applicants propose to add paragraph. 5a concerning compulsory civil liability insurance for possible damage caused by the cultivation of GMOs. Amendments 2 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote for them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the rapporteur has misled you. In this law you can save insurance so that the person who wants to grow GMOs will be insured against liability in the event of contamination of neighbouring fields. Why are you leaving the farmer to himself so that he may later have to recover the lost goods on a civilian road? There is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, the fresh opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office of January 31, that in this bill we can make this amendment. I ask you to accept this amendment because it simply protects citizens, farmers from possible damage that would be if GMOs were to spill out in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u119	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 56 against - 350, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 49e applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 15. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: Resigns.]] Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 230, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 49e paragraph. 17 applicants propose to add point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 179 votes against - 226 and 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 49j applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 229, with seven abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 50a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns transparency. The point is that the person who wants to grow GMOs is listed in the register by name. And here the Members of the Law and Justice say that we must not violate the privacy of such a person. After all, we know that we have registers that are public: the KRS, the CEIGD, the electronic version of the perpetual book and there these data are disclosed. Why do we think that people who want to grow GMOs are supposed to be classified? Maybe it's about the idea of some big piss-man crop? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, you're overreacting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u121	Indeed, an interesting conclusion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 8, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 227, with six abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 58 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 9th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 9, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mr Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here's another example of the syndrome: because they lied, so they got all kinds of profits. This is about lying to voters, to all farmers and to people who were against GMOs. Minister Szyszko has prepared a bill to which he has not really introduced any, but these are no social amendments that were important to people. He corrected a few things and missed the most important - the social feeling of people who are against GMOs. In 2015, the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL notified us to the European Union as a GMO-free country. It was enough to prepare one bill, which Minister Szyszko prepared for eight years, and after 27 months he releases a wick against which the whole society is against. I invite Minister Szyszka to the meetings in the environmental committee, let him hear what people and his constituents think of him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u123	Thank you. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u124	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! This project talks about formal conditions relating to the possible cultivation of GMOs in Poland, but does not determine who will bear the costs and responsibility for possible pollution of neighbouring traditional and ecological crops. What are you going to do about it? All the social amendments were rejected at the committee meeting yesterday. I'm already overlooking the dramatic way people are treated, singing, praying at committee meetings, throwing these people out, and I'm just wondering why we're inviting the social side. Each time we reject all the social amendments one by one. Almost always, 99%. That's what happened to the Hunting Law. They were all upset. [[It's either always or almost always.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not invite them, let's not pretend we want to hear them out. You guys do it regularly. [[Don't yell!]] You disrespect people. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I'm in the middle of a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u125	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a little difficult for me not to refer to what I have just heard, because the 7 amendments of the social side that Kukiz has reported15 have been adopted, so it is not true, although the bill is still dimpled and there is no agreement to adopt the Stupid Act. If we believe that cultivation of GMOs should be prohibited, let us say it directly and prevent it in every article. Unfortunately, many of the amendments we have tabled have been rejected, which is why we cannot support such a straitened bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u127	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Marek Sawicki as Minister of Agriculture in 2015 reported Poland as a GMO-free country in the European Union. You guys are quitting, which is why we don't support this solution. And now two sentences to Minister Jurgiel. I see you're reading our programming documents. I will look at this hope for you because there is a chance that there will finally be a programme for Polish agriculture and the Polish countryside. Keep using it, it will certainly be better in the Polish countryside. [[Applause]] We'll send you the full version of the programming documents. You spend so much time in your speeches on my bias. [[ZSL.]] I would like to remind you that you are the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, not the Minister of PSL. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[ZSL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u129	Thank you. Mr Jan Szyszko, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I just have the opportunity to ask you a question, which is why I'm asking you a question. [[But to whom?]] Is it true that thanks to the operation of the previous coalition, several dozen varieties of genetically modified seeds of rape, soya and maize are now imported into Poland for the production of feed and food? And is it true that if these grains are sown by a farmer and brought into the field, he is threatened with ploughing this crop and a mandate? At the same time, we eat all of this. So what's the situation now? Is it true that right now, in order to sow such seeds, you need the Minister's permission? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Go away, cut a tree somewhere.]] Is the truth... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Time! Time!]] ...that in order for the Minister to give his consent, you have to have all the neighbors' consent within a 30-mile radius? And is the truth...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u131	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u132	...that you also need to keep the environment safe...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u134	...so that this product...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u135	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u136	...didn't have a negative effect on beneficial organisms? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u138	And finally, is it true that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u139	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u140	...that two years in prison is currently being punished? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u141	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No. 2029, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 230 voted against - 198, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 2248). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2248, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 409, against - 1, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 2249). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2249, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 2, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 59 hours 11 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights (print No 2232). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The main objective of the proposed law on collective management of copyright and related rights is the implementation of Directive 2014/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences for rights in musical works on-line in the internal market. The deadline for its implementation was 10 April 2016. Due to the delay, the European Commission has decided to refer Poland to the Court of Justice of the European Union for non-implementation, which is why the adoption of the law has become an extremely urgent task. This also applies to the practical implementation of provisions already adopted by Parliament. In addition to the implementation of the provisions of the Directive, the proposed law will constitute the first fully comprehensive regulation of the activities of collecting societies in the history of Polish copyright law for almost 100 years. The aim of the project was to organize the Polish collective management market, eliminate irregularities and make them more transparent, efficient and friendly for both copyright and related rights owners and users. The current rules governing collective management contained in the Act of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights are fragmented, as they ignore the issue of detailed relations between organisations and authorised users, leaving them to be shaped by the authorities of these organisations, and often in practice by legal firms representing them. Therefore, in practice in part of the organization, although they are legitimate associations, self-government has become a fiction, while the system of collective management in Poland, which has been operational since the 1990s, has a confrontational character, not a negotiation-conciliation character. The powers of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage overseeing organisations are also very limited at the moment, preventing the effective fight against identified irregularities. The implementation of the Directive is the best opportunity to comprehensively remedy this situation. In Poland there is a need for a domestic collective management market, also as part of the protection of native creativity, but it must be a market that operates effectively and according to more transparent rules than before. One of the essential elements of the law, including in this context, is the protection of the exercise of collective management in Polish territory by Polish collective management organisations. In this respect, the EU Directive allows the maintenance of an existing authorisation scheme for collecting societies. It also allows for the introduction in the case of foreign entities who are interested in providing such services in Poland, identical obligations related to the commencement of collective management as in the case of Polish entities, including for obtaining authorisation after meeting certain criteria. At the same time, the proposed law aims to maintain the character of existing organisations in which the creators and artists of performers should have a decisive voice, not entities whose contribution to the creation of works and related rights objects is financial - e.g. producers and music publishers - and which copyright or related rights they acquire from artists and performers. To this end, the proposed law gives collective management organisations back into the hands of their members. The primary objective of any person who wishes to maintain or apply for the status of collecting societies must be the collective management of their rights, carried out in a careful manner, with particular emphasis on the regular distribution and payment of the funds in question. These associations may, of course, carry out social, cultural or educational activities in addition, to the extent that they are financed from copyright and related rights, in particular for categories represented by the organisation and with the agreement of those from which such activities are financed. All the most important decisions within the association concerning the remuneration charged to the entitled must be taken at the general meeting of members and not, as is sometimes the case, delegated to the narrow circle of persons sitting in the authorities of the association. It is important to establish within the framework of the organisation of audit committees whose members representing the eligible themselves should be the first to supervise the way in which their own organisation carries out its duties towards them and their colleagues. The Act will also regulate the rules of membership of the organisation, the conclusion of collective management agreements with the organisation and the deadlines for the distribution of funds and their payment to the entitled. The basic principle in this respect will be equal treatment of entitled persons, compliance with time limits and rules for payment of eligible funds and effective search for eligible persons for which the funds have been collected but have not been split up and paid. These entitled persons should agree to the content of internal documents which govern these rules, affect the amount of deductions made by their organisation in respect of the costs of collective management and decide on the allocation of funds for purposes other than direct payment. Organisations should also not have the right to invest not their resources in risky financial market instruments. As today, collective management activities will require the authorisation of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, as has already been mentioned. This is to ensure control over the proper functioning of collective management and to reduce the excessive number of organisations operating on the market. At the same time, however, the Act does not preclude more than one organisation from being authorised to the same extent. However, it sets out rules for their coexistence on the market in relation to both the authorised and the users. The authorised persons who have not entrusted the rights of any organisation shall represent only the organisation which has obtained representative status. In addition, organisations whose authorisations overlap will be required to conclude joint agreements with users. In addition, in the field of public playback, the principle of one window will be introduced, which means that the user will be obliged to conclude only one contract instead of four or six, as currently. These solutions will be an important facilitation for thousands of entrepreneurs who use works protected by copyright and related rights in their business. In addition, the Act contains provisions to improve the procedure for the approval of remuneration tables by the Committee on Copyright. Unfortunately, the procedure introduced in 2010 has proved to be inefficient to a significant extent. Following the directive, the law also regulates the rules for granting multi-territorial licences for the use of music on the Internet. This part of the law is the literal implementation of a directive which has fully harmonised in this respect and should be uniformly implemented throughout the European Union. The project envisages a significant extension of the provisions on the supervision of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage over collecting societies, extending the catalogue of measures that the supervisory authority can apply to clarify and address irregularities. Their aim will primarily be to apply corrective measures - from soft recommendations to the imposition of fines on those responsible for irregularities. Only if they are ineffective will the Minister be able to impose a sanction in the form of withdrawal of the collective management permit, the only one available to him now. The provisions shall also specify the allocation of funds outstanding by the organisation which has lost its authorisation in a sanctioning manner. Finally, the Act will determine, in no way currently regulated, the conditions for the management of rights on a commercial basis by non-collective management organisations. This activity will be of a regulated economic activity and will be subject to registration. Unlike collecting societies, independent management entities will always have to identify themselves with individual authorisation to manage specific rights. That's why I'm asking you to take care of the bill by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u143	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Raven, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government draft law on collective management of copyrights and related rights in accordance with Article. 1, indicating the scope of the law of cases, sets out the principles: the activities of collecting societies and other entities managing copyrights or related rights, so-called. independent management bodies; the granting of authorisations for such activities; the supervision of its implementation and the activities of the Committee on Copyright. The proposal is adapted - to European Union law - and is intended to implement the Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights in the Polish legal order and to grant multi-territorial licences on rights to musical works On-line in the Internal Market of 2014 The harmonisation of the principles of collective management in European Union law has been under consideration for many years. The 2004 European Commission Communication pointed out that the creation of an internal market in the area of copyright and related rights requires effective mechanisms for the management of these rights, in particular in a digital environment where the need for cross-border licensing is increasing and therefore the existence of an effective collective management system is in the interest of both the rightful and the users. The transposed Directive specifically regulates almost all aspects of the activities of collective management organisations, i.e. general principles of action, relations between organisations and entitled persons, membership rules, internal structure and power, rules on the management of revenue from rights, including deductions from funds collected, relations between organisations, relations with users, information and reporting obligations, finally rules on settlement of disputes involving organisations. In the preamble to the Directive, this complexity of legislation is justified by significant differences in national rules governing the functioning of collecting societies, in particular as regards their transparency and accountability towards members and rightholders. On the other hand, as fundamental objectives of legislation, the preamble points to ensuring coordination of national rules on the conditions for the management of copyright and related rights and to establishing requirements to ensure a high level of governance, financial management, transparency and reporting. The general principles adopted by the Polish Law of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights in many cases are in line with the direction set out in the Directive. At the same time, its records are too vague, as well as fragmented, completely ignore e.g. certain important aspects of the collective management, such as the relationship between the organisation and the eligible or the rules for the distribution and payment of the funds in question. Therefore, the government considered that the implementation of the directive into the Polish legal order requires the adoption of a new regulation of collective management, which will significantly broaden the scope of regulated issues and detail the provisions of some existing solutions in practice. It seems that it was right to decide that this regulation should be included in a separate law replacing the present chapter 12 of the Polish Copyright and Related Rights Act under the assumption of maintaining and developing certain solutions characteristic for the Polish collective management system. As a result of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage's public consultation on this project, 50 posts were received from collecting societies, organisations of cultural creators, chambers of commerce which bring together users of works and related rights, cultural institutions, librarian organisations, television broadcasters, scientific institutes and social organisations and individuals. The comments submitted during the consultation were partly taken into account by the Minister. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club is in favour of a government project on collective management of copyright and related rights for further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u145	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Any attempt to improve the copyright area and the governance structures of these rights raises interest, deserves serious treatment and should actually enjoy a priori quite positive opinion. This test, too, especially since partly resulting from the European Commission's directive, is an attempt that probably needs to be very carefully leaned on, an attempt which probably requires a very detailed examination in Parliament. I hope that this will benefit both the creators' environment and the recipients' environment, the users of these rights. However, this is my first point. I would like to remind you that in the European Commission, the work on the directive that we are implementing this collective management of copyright and related rights law has taken about 10 years. There was an initiative, there was a consultation, there was a review of the legislation of the European countries, so it was 10 years. Then, as I understand it, the current government - and it is good that it immediately faced this issue... [[It's not simple.]] I think he worked okay. Two years. You can assume that's all I know, and I'm sure that's a year and a half, that's what I know firsthand. It is a very difficult, very extensive law. However, it is difficult beyond the general statement that it is probably necessary and perhaps right to make more in-depth conclusions, because Members had three days to read these two obsessive volumes. In fact, we found out on Monday that this project is the subject of a plenary session. So for three days, the Civic Platform Club has made this kind of decision... We believe that, as I said, this is certainly a subject to be addressed, very, very carefully. I can also say personally, because I am accompanying the creation of Polish copyright from the beginning, after 1989, that we certainly have in our regulations a lot of shortcomings, gaps and solutions that raise some doubts. So if this bill could be improved, it would be very good. I looked at as much as I had time, maybe a little more detailed solutions concerning the Committee on Copyright, which have been made in relation to the previous regulations, as fresh as in 2010, then there were significant changes: this chapter has been expanded and slightly changed. There are these accents, if that's what you might call it. I'm sure you'd have to think about that. Indeed, the project has received a whole package of consultation results or a list of those consulted. However, this does not change our belief that the government of the government - we are very pleased that it has put so much emphasis on this project - but that an in-depth consultation should also be carried out by Parliament. That's what my club says. Therefore, we will allow ourselves to make a request for a public hearing and I am personally convinced - this will be a request to the cultural committee - that the cultural committee will support this proposal. After all, we also know from the discussion of these consultations that some of the comments were taken into account, and part of why I am not surprised, because I have been working with copyright for so many years, could not be taken into account. However, we would like the representatives of the environments that will be responsible for this management of rights and those that are to benefit from copyright protection to refer to the Members of the European Parliament to the final one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The editorial board. So that with such a request for a public hearing we will ask for a first step. We think Mr. Marshal Sejm will give us a little more time, maybe not two years...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u147	Unfortunately, I can't give you any more time, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u148	...because we don't have that much, but at least a few months to prepare this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u149	And I invite Mr Piotr Apel here from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The directive that has been presented to us must indeed be implemented. I am pleased that the government has taken up such a challenge to go further and regulate important, important things outside the directive. This is a good initiative. Indeed, it is important to put this in order, all the more so that in Polish tax law we are not able to appreciate these artists in any serious way - after all we do not have the cost of obtaining. This is at a level that is insufficient, and the Member knows it very well. All the more so, then, we need to analyse this very carefully so that we do not do this amendment to the harm to artists. That's why I think... Using the fact that he is here and the President, and the Vice-President, and the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, I will immediately call for the creation of a subcommittee to deal with this amendment, because it seems to me that this matter absolutely deserves it - it deserves to be looked at and devoted to it a lot, a lot of time. A lot has already been done, a very large bill has been written. Therefore, I think that the creator will humbly also approach the amendments that may appear during these works, and with humility and respect for artists will give the opportunity to work so that this right is the best. I think that's what we all care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u151	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For many years, when I worked at the Polish Theatre in Wrocław, we struggled with various problems that were related to copyright. This is a very broad area for discussion and this discussion, of course, needs to be undertaken. I am very pleased that you have taken up this challenge because it needs to be regulated. At the same time, I support the proposal of Vice-President Sledzinska-Katarasinska for a public hearing. It will probably be very difficult for the next years to deal with this problem and return to it, so there is an opportunity to discuss it meaningfully, thoroughly, so as not to overlook any of the environments of widely understood artists of culture or cultural institutions. And that's the modern position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u153	And thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, I'll close the list after the first question. Time for the question - one and a half minutes. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the law is very extensive and it is difficult to ask very detailed questions today, because there will still be press. On the other hand, I would like to ask a question about the consultation that the government has already carried out. The list shows that these are almost 70 entities, different types of institutions, including economic operators. It's a good thing it's such an extensive consultation. However, of course, it was difficult to read the results of these consultations, i.e. with opinions provided by the various actors. At the first reading stage, I would like to ask the Minister to perhaps present the main requests resulting from these consultations, those which were or have been taken into account in relation to the original draft as well as those which have not been taken into account. I am aware that there have certainly been opinions that may be contradictory, but such information is extremely useful for further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u155	Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of this directive was very expected by the environment's creators. There was a expectation, and there were great hopes that the law would perfectly extend the scope of the directive to deal with many outstanding issues. After consultation - I have many such signals - these proposals have not been implemented, which have ensured the safety of the creators. And there's a huge request for you to introduce... It's a good idea to have a public hearing. But the most important thing, as was emphasized here, is the matter of securing native, Polish works and safeguarding these right rights of creators. That's what we care about. As I say, many communities have asked that these issues - which will, of course, be possible in the course of the discussion - come back for these proposals to come back. And maybe that's the most important thing. But there is also a second point. This is the Commission. Copyright. Again, the scope of this committee's work has been expanded. At the same time, as Mrs Katarasińska said, we did not have time to read this. There was very little at the time, and if you don't work on the committee, the less it is. Therefore, there is a huge request for you to present the main demands and main assumptions of enlargement in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] those paragraphs relating to the activities of the Committee on Copyright. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u157	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u158	Thank you, Mr Marshal, Commissioner. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Neither of the collecting societies nor any of the parties involved in the consultation have claimed that, as a rule, the law does not regulate the issues which it is intended to regulate. As for the detailed presentation of all the requests and our answers to all the requests - because I do not know which requests I can consider to be the main ones and which I cannot - this is in the consultation report, which is, of course, attached to the documentation submitted in the Sejm. It is also available on the website of the Government Legislative Centre. There's all the comments for every recipe. Because I remind you that the bill is large, long, as you yourself have noticed. And all these demands and our answers, which we have taken into account and which we have not and why, are available in this document and can be read. On the other hand, as regards the issue of additional protection, it seems that I presented this at the very beginning during the presentation of the bill. I pointed out very clearly that the regulations protect Polish OZZs from the dominance of foreign OZZs and at the same time indicate an increase in the role of creators and performers vis-à-vis producers and other entities. This is clearly indicated in the provisions of the Act. As regards time, the Members of the Civic Platform pointed out that they had very little time to read the Act. In fact, maybe there wasn't much time. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the directive we are implementing was adopted in 2014 and we got about 2 years to implement this directive, i.e. On 10 April 2016, she should already be notified and implemented. However, when we came to the Ministry, it turned out that no work on the directive and its implementation took place, so we had to... And let me remind you that we came at the end of 2015. So as soon as we got here, we started working on this directive because we wanted to make time for possible sanctions. We're on the line, ladies and gentlemen, because the sanction procedure has begun. I remind you that it was not our fault, because for two years there were no work done in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage on the directive before we came to the ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u159	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on collective management of copyright and related rights contained in print No 2232, to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 27 April 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing (print No 2233). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour to submit a proposal for a new law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland. The main assumption of the solutions contained in the proposal submitted to the High House is to increase the efficiency of the national anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. This assumption has been implemented through a number of actions contained in this Act. It is also a matter of adapting the Polish anti-money laundering and terrorist financing legislation to the requirements of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 4th Directive, and to the requirements arising from the revised recommendations of the Task Force in 2012. Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, so-called FATF - an international organisation setting the standard anti-money laundering and terrorist financing rules. The proposed solutions also take into account the experience of the application of the current Law of 16 November 2000 on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the regulations contained in the so-called. V Directive, since the IV Directive is currently being amended by the European Commission. Among the most important solutions contained in the proposal submitted to the High House, it is important to identify government administrations as competent in anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. They will be as far as the Minister of Finance and the General Inspector of Financial Information with the status of Secretary or Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The General Inspector shall be given additional powers to draw up a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, to issue decisions on the alert of persons and entities subject to specific restrictive measures, which shall be linked to the prevention of terrorist financing. It is clearly indicated that it is also the administrator of the ICT system to counter money laundering and terrorist financing. Changes in the catalogue of obliged institutions include the status of institutions obliged to new categories of entities, including those already mentioned in the business of providing virtual currency exchange services. The role of the Financial Security Committee as a platform for the exchange of knowledge, experience, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing information has been re-defined. In this respect, the tasks, composition and basic principles of the Financial Security Committee have been defined. This will ensure that the General Financial Information Inspector is effectively assisted in carrying out his tasks. Introduce the obligation for obliged institutions to make an assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing and to define mechanisms for the assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing at national level, as well as actions taken to make practical use of the conclusions resulting from the national risk assessment. The proposed solutions do not directly constitute the implementation of the requirements of the fourth Directive in the draft law. In line with the requirements of the fourth Directive, the rules on the application of the financial security measures by the institutions have been modified, including the principles of an approach based on the assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in the application of those measures. The proposed law, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, transfers the basic burden of risk assessment and therefore the application of financial security measures to the obliged institution. Establishment of a Central Register of Actual Recipients. This new type of register is the implementation of the obligation imposed on Member States to establish it, it is a tool designed to counter money laundering and terrorist financing, but in addition, as regards the coverage of data collected in that register, the principle of transparency should also serve to protect the safety of economic operators. The amendment also applies to the area where financial information is collected, processed and made available by the authorities. Despite the fact that the new rules do not differ significantly from those currently in force, they allow for a much more effective use of the information collected to counter money laundering and terrorist financing by competent and competent authorities to combat other types of crime. A modification of the rules on the account lock procedure or the interruption of transactions has also been prepared. Those institutions shall be used in connection with suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing. Again, the rules on the account lock procedure and the interruption of transactions have largely duplicated solutions that have been in place for more than 15 years. Clarify the rules on the exchange of information by the financial information authorities with their foreign counterparts and Europol. The introduction of these provisions is one of the main objectives pursued by the adoption of the fourth Directive. In the context of the international dimension often taken up by schemes for the flow of money laundering or terrorist financing measures, enabling the acquisition, but also as important, of information to foreign partners is an essential issue. It should be considered relevant in the proposed law to modify the provisions concerning the application of specific restrictive measures against persons, groups and entities. So far, the arrangements in this area relating to the functioning of the Committee on Financial Security, as well as the legislative process, the adoption of a regulation in cooperation with the Minister responsible for Public Finance and the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs have remained completely ineffective. Solutions have been put in place to allow effective application of specific restrictive measures, which will allow Poland as a member of the United Nations and the European Union to fulfil its obligations under international agreements and to apply specific measures based on UN Security Council resolutions and decisions of the Council of the European Union. Adapting control provisions and sanctioning anti-money laundering and terrorist financing by institutions required to comply with requirements under the fourth Directive. The proposed amendments entail depenalisation of part of the behaviour on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, covered by the current criminal sanctions, and allow the competent authorities to refrain from imposing a penalty. The present law mainly provides for the imposition of administrative penalties of a monetary nature on institutions which fail to comply with the provisions of this Law. Dear Members, I recommend that the Act on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing be referred to the High House for further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u161	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft anti-money laundering law and the financing of terrorism from print no. 2233. The draft law aims to bring Polish legislation into line with the provisions of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 and the revised recommendations of the FATF, as well as to increase the effectiveness of the national anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. In the course of the work on this project, the recommendations of the Expert Committee were also taken into account. Evaluation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 It is stated that the Act sets out the principles and modalities of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing as well as other measures to protect the public interest. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 All institutions required to apply anti-money laundering and terrorist financing legislation are listed in detail. The list of institutions referred to in this Article shall be broadly consistent with the list of institutions required under the current rules. The status of the obliged institution is covered by the new Directive by companies and trusts service providers and entities providing exchange services between virtual currencies and legal means of payment. In addition, the extent to which the obligations of the obliged institutions rest with associations with legal personality and foundations has been clarified, indicating that it relates only to the acceptance or payment in cash of a value equal to 10 000. the euro or exceeding it. The scope of the definition of foreign exchange operators has been defined. The status of an institution of obliged entrepreneurs leading auction houses, antique shops, trading in precious and semi-precious metals and stones and sales of the Commission has been deprived. The National Bank of Poland has also been removed from the list of obliged institutions, which under the current rules has a specific, dual status - both the obliged institution and the cooperating entity. In addition, the extent to which lawyers, lawyers, foreign lawyers and tax advisers will be subject to anti-money laundering and terrorist financing obligations is limited. The fundamental concept of money laundering and terrorist financing for the bill was defined by referring to the criminal acts of the Penal Code. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) Point 11 defines the concept of politically exposed persons by mentioning in point (a). b Members of Parliament or similar legislative bodies, including Members and Senators. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) Point 26 defines the concept of a virtual currency. The intention of the projectors was to extend the scope of this definition to both so-called. kryptovalut, as well as centralized virtual currencies. Chapter 2 sets out, inter alia, the role of the General Inspector for Financial Information, hereinafter referred to as the General Inspector, who is taking action to counter money laundering and terrorist financing. Chapter 3 sets out the tasks of the Financial Security Committee. In addition to the provisions on the collection of information on beneficial owners, the Act will enter into force within 3 months of the date of publication. This draft law is not contrary to European Union law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare that we will support this project and propose that it be transferred to further legislative work to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Public Finance Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The purpose of the new law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing is to align Polish legislation with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as to adapt Polish legislation to the recommendations of the International Financial Action Task Force and to the recommendations of the evaluators of the Expert Committee. Evaluation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The aim of the amendment is also to tackle this very dangerous phenomenon more effectively based on practical experience so far in the application of the provisions of the current law. In view of the large number of changes that need to be made to the legal order, the government has decided to draft a new law and this seems to be a good decision, all the more so as there are a number of new elements, new solutions, new rules. New categories of institutions are introduced, the tasks of the Financial Security Committee, mechanisms for the preparation of the national risk assessment, and finally new obligations of the obliged institutions or provisions on the establishment, operation of the Central Register of the beneficial owner. Rules on the General Financial Information Inspector and the collection of information necessary for the fulfilment of the new statutory tasks, as well as the protection of the information and procedures collected, the arrangements for making that information available to other entities will also be improved. The rules on stopping transactions and blocking accounts will also be revised. It is very important that these rules should be precise, not raise the concerns of honest entrepreneurs, foundations or associations. Finally, the rules on the control of obliged institutions, as well as administrative sanctions imposed on those institutions, will be amended. The new law aims to contribute to the more efficient functioning of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system, which is why the Civic Platform Club recommends that the project be addressed to the finance committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. As all my previous speakers have already said, this is part of the implementation of our EU commitments, and we therefore need to introduce certain regulations into our law. We have to. Maybe we don't always do it willingly, as they complicate our laws, impose certain new obligations on our offices, on our organs and on average mortals and entrepreneurs. Well, the European Union has its price and this is part of the price. We propose that, while working in committee, we consider whether all the regulations correspond exactly to those EU ideas, whether we are not implementing what unfortunately often happens in our legislation, that EU projects are really far beyond the need set by EU law, and that, by the way, we tend to overregulation when it comes to different kinds of institutions, phenomena and entities. Either way, this work will have to be carried out in committee, which is why our club will recommend that we refer the project to the committee and work on it, on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is intended to bring legal regulations into line with the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing, as well as with the international recommendations of Financial Action Task Force and the recommendations of the evaluators of the Expert Committee. Evaluations of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to make money laundering and terrorist financing more effective. These are absolutely very, but these are very important tasks. They have a direct impact on our security, on the security of the state. Such regulations, which will help prevent improper behaviour and financing of activities, I would say extremist, deserve to be supported, supported and implemented as much as possible. The Member States of the European Union had time to adapt their legislation to the provisions of the Directive by 26 June 2017, which means that we are well behind the deadline. While we know that few European Union countries have adapted these rules, it does not, of course, exempt the PiS government from doing so on time. We're behind schedule, Minister. I expect you to make every effort to submit such legislation to the High House in due time, not to throw it at the last moment, on pneumonia, and to demand that we proceed on them at a pace that has taunted the fundamental principles of correct legislation. You've had a lot of time to prepare these rules, and now you're asking Parliament to make such a complicated matter, which requires a very thorough analysis - I'll tell you why - we've worked in a week or two. This is ridiculous. So that I call, however, for the ministries to speed up and prepare legislation in such a way that they can be well identified in good time so that these rules enter in good time. Of course, the content range is very broad, so it is not possible to discuss it in the manner of presenting the club's position. But I would say that at first glance it looks like it's actually going in the right direction. However, Minister, we also have questions as to whether the custom of our bureaucracy has been included in this draft optional provisions. Because we know that in many directives there are optional elements that can be implemented, but there is no need. When they are implemented, they cause further complications. For many directives implemented in Polish law, such optional provisions have been introduced. This, of course, is a very bad solution, all the more so since this law affects responsibilities, bureaucratic burdens also in the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. So I'm sure we need a very detailed explanation here, whether there are too far-reaching restrictions, just bureaucratic ones. I also want to say that it is good that a new law is being made. It's a good thing we're not trying to update the previous rules because it could cause some complications. I would say that this is a step in the right direction, and it is absolutely appreciated, but of course this law requires work in committee. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I propose that this project be directed to further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u169	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position towards the Government's draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, print no. 2233. The draft of this Act implements Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. The project also takes into account international recommendations, as amended in 2012. The FATF, and the recommendations of the Council of Europe Expert Committee on The evaluation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the use of practical experience resulting from the existing law, therefore the project does not change the existing law, but introduces a new project covering all issues related to this subject, enabling the system to function more effectively, to which it is obliged, to counter money laundering and terrorist financing. The draft shall specify in detail the institutions which are required to carry out the duties set out in the Internal Surveillance Act. With regard to government administration, the project defines institutionally who, to what extent and how it carries out the tasks arising from the contested draft law. The financial information bodies in anti-money laundering and terrorist financing cases shall be the Minister responsible for public finances and the General Inspector for Financial Information. The opinion and advisory role will be exercised by the Financial Security Committee, composed of representatives of many ministries, institutions and security agencies, as well as the President of the National Bank of Poland and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. In cooperation with the General Committee, the inspector shall carry out a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing and develop a strategy, i.e. a risk reduction action plan. All institutions are obliged to apply financial security measures to their clients in a very, I would say, wide range concerning, among others. identification of the client, verification of the client's identity, identification and monitoring of economic relations, processing of data on beneficiaries, conducting ongoing analyses of transactions carried out, carrying out so-called. the internal procedure of the obliged institution, as well as the procedure for anonymous reporting of infringements and information provided to the general inspector. The draft also provides for detailed rules for the operation of the Central Register of Actual Recipients in the ICT system and for the reporting by the institutions of the required information on all matters which may relate to this issue. The central part of money laundering and terrorist financing issues, particularly decision-making ones, belongs to the General Financial Information Inspector, whose competences and scope of action are specified in this project very, very detail. The bill gives rise to financial consequences, which is also understandable with such a wide range of functioning of the law. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work in the parliament, where I think we will be able to analyse whether it is too bureaucratic, especially with regard to the required institutions, although the purpose of the project itself is fully justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is one of the important tasks of the State to reduce crime and ensure security. Detecting and prosecuting money laundering and terrorist financing crime is a difficult task and requires the cooperation of many national authorities and services, as well as international cooperation. In 2014, only 170 notifications of suspected money laundering offences were sent to the prosecutor's office following the conduct of 2400 financial information by the General Inspector. It is worth mentioning that during the period under scrutiny by the Supreme Audit Chamber, i.e. from the beginning of 2013 until mid-2015, the effectiveness of the control system for institutions which are required to record over-the-counter transactions and suspects was very low. At the estimated amount of PLN 18 200 million in 2014, only 1,200 thousand assets were secured in criminal proceedings. PLN and the sale of assets worth just PLN 11.5 million, i.e. 0.07% the estimated amount. In 2015, the scale of the money laundering phenomenon was estimated at more than PLN 17 billion, while in criminal proceedings the assets of PLN 3 million were secured and the property was transferred worth nearly PLN 100 million, representing 0.6% the amount concerned. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed regulation provides for, inter alia, adapting the Polish provisions to the provisions of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC. The project work also included recommendations addressed to the National Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing System by the Expert Committee on the Evaluation of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Measures, contained in the 2013 evaluation report of the Polish Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing System. In view of the large number of changes that should be made to the current provisions of the Law of 16 November 2000 on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, it was decided to draw up a new law. The new legislation will include: the rules on the establishment and functioning of the Central Register of Actual Beneficiaries, the rules on the cessation of transactions and the blocking of accounts, while the principles of cooperation between the Inspector-General of Financial Information and Foreign Financial Analysts and Europol are laid down more precisely in relation to the previous situation. The draft law requires institutions required to implement the provisions of the Act to apply increased security measures, such as identification and verification of the customer's identity and monitoring of business relations with the customer in the event of their customer's use of services or products conducive to anonymity or making it difficult to identify them. The new Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2015/849 lays down rules on the imposition of fines on institutions liable for failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Law and their amount. Currently, the 2000 Act indicates that such penalties may not exceed a limit of 750 000. zł. The provisions of the new law assume that the maximum monetary penalty for the legal persons referred to therein will be equivalent to EUR 5 million or 10% the total annual turnover. The proposed law will contribute to the more efficient functioning of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system and to better align Polish regulations with international recommendations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government's draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u173	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first and only question so far. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna from the Civic Platform. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question is not strictly related to the provisions of the Act, but is closely related to it. I would like the Minister to tell the High House why, since 18 April 2017, he has ceased to be active, previously available on the website of the Chief Financial Information Inspector, a free e-learning course under such a title - countering money laundering and terrorist financing. The old law, but also this new project, indicates that the institutions required must ensure the participation of workers responsible for anti-money laundering tasks in training programmes, i.e. that foundations, associations, including those based on voluntary activities, must provide workers with such training in the free market, which, of course, entails costs. If they don't do it, the bill provides for a fine of about 750,000. Evil, if I remember correctly. I would like to ask if the Ministry of Finance intends to return to probably a good tradition, especially when it comes to foundations, associations or non-profit organisations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u175	Thank you very much. Is the Minister in charge, sir? Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Piotr Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, a very good question. As much as we want to get back to this tradition, there are intense work done, just that course I'm afraid it's out of date. We want these materials that are included on the pages to be as up-to-date as possible, which is why we are now working on updating and of course this course will come back as much as possible... As the Ministry of Finance, we will return to this good practice. Besides, I wanted to point out that this is not only a matter of presentation itself, this course, which was on the pages, but also other forms of communication, are called. Mondays, moreover, are also consulted with the associations mentioned by the Member. So that we would very much like to continue the tradition of communicating with organizations as far as these tasks are concerned, and this course will come back as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u177	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, contained in print No 2233, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Commission for Special Services. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 27 April 2018. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 58th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, you have the floor of Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most tragic chapter of the common history of Poles and Jews undoubtedly opens the Second World War. The situation in my Myślenice and the county did not differ in any way from the situation in the occupied rest of the country. In 1942. The Germans began to implement the plan of the final solution to the Jewish issue. Mass executions in the east, which claimed hundreds of thousands of Jewish victims, were already carried out since the aggression of the Third Reich on the Soviet Union in June 1941, 6 months later, at a conference of high officials of the Nazi security apparatus, administration and NSDAP in the Podberlin Wannsee approved a plan to murder all European Jews. One part of this plan was the extermination of Jews residing in the General Government, codenamed Reinhardt in honor of the Czech resistance movement, Reinhard Heydrich, head of the Reich Security Office. In Poland, the death penalty was threatened with all the help shown to the hiding Jews. It was a fundamental factor determining the behaviour of some Poles in relation to Jewish refugees. Unfortunately, this fact has often become a kind of justification, an explanation in the case of e.g. the surrender of the hiding Jews. Of course, this case had two poles. At the opposite pole were those who risked their lives giving shelter to the Jewish refugees, often paying the highest price for it, the cost of their lives and their families. The most famous example and practically symbol of heroic attitudes of Poles is the Ulm family from Markowa in Podkarpacie. The Ulms, along with their children, were brutally murdered for helping them hide the Jews. Many similar heroic attitudes also appear in the Myślenice and the Thinking Council. They are researched and documented by local researchers, such as: mgr. Mark Stoszk. In the light of these facts, it is particularly painful to attribute the responsibility for the Holocaust of Poland to different environments abroad, but unfortunately also in Poland. During the occupation in our country, there was never an attempt to create a collaborating government, which took place in many other occupied countries. In Poland there was also a highly specialized organization of the Council of Aid to Jews Żegota, which involved many communities in helping Polish citizens of Jewish origin. The Earth's environment was also carried by aid through its organisation. This is confirmed by the fact that the Yad Vashem Institute has repeatedly given our citizens the title of Righteous Among the Nations. Destiny of the Righteous Among the Nations since 1 January 2016 6620 Poles were honoured, or about 25% of all marked with this medal. The Jews were helped by individuals, whole families and villages, part of the resistance movement, and by the organizations specifically mentioned by me for this purpose, such as the Council for the Help of Jews, Zegota, and the crop - Tarcza. The apogee of this lying and outrageous campaign against Poland is the identification of Polish death camps sold around the world by various media and pseudo-researchers. The amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the corresponding social education carried out at each level by scientists, teachers and educators in a special way can contribute to the complete elimination of this lying and defamatory Polish nation's term and gives a clear signal that there will be no reduction tariff for liars and those who slander the good name of Poland and Poles both in Poland and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u180	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The academy. Jan Długosz is one of the two main universities in Częstochowa. Its students are not only residents of Częstochowa or the northern subregion of the Silesian Voivodeship, but also students from all over Poland study because of their high level of teaching and competitiveness at our Częstochowa university, thanks to the fact that Poland is a member of the European Union, thanks to international programmes - also students from all over the world. About transforming the Academy. Jan Długosz at the university has been working for years with university authorities, local self-governments, as well as parliamentarians from various political options. The government of the Civic Platform and other Marshals of the voivodship, realizing the need for continuous university development and supporting the academy's aspirations and aspirations, spared no money for its development. Thanks to this, among others. a new building of the faculty of social sciences was established and it was possible to overhaul the faculty's auditorium in general. Understanding the need to meet the formal conditions opening the way for the university to be transformed, university authorities have not only been developing infrastructure for years and are opening up new directions, adapting them to the changing labour market, but also ensuring a high level of scientific staff. Thanks to this, the university enjoys continuous success among candidates, and in national rankings from year to year it ranks in ever higher positions. A few days ago, we received great information about the Academy's award to them. Jan Długosz permissions to give a doctoral degree of art in the field of fine arts. It is another, sixth already, direction with such powers, and at the same time it is fulfilling the last condition necessary for Częstochowa to wait for years of her university. The authorities, the scientific staff and the university community have done everything they can to make the dream come true. I am convinced that the Minister for Science and Higher Education will issue an appropriate regulation without undue delay. Surely this year's graduates would be happy if they could get a university degree. I am pleased that this honor meets our Alma Mater under the first female rector in the history of the university. It is also happy that the university will be celebrating its 50th anniversary as a university. I would like to congratulate Professor Annie Wypych-Gawronska and her predecessor, Prof. Zygmunt Bąk, on her determination to pursue the goal. At the same time, as a Częstochowa woman and a Member of the Częstochowa Region, I would like to thank Prof. Jerzy Buzek, who has been supporting Częstochowa universities for years, and as the example of the Academy shows. Jan Długosz is doing this extremely effectively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u181	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement, or actually my appeal, concerns medicines used by Poles, especially those they do not use and which are recycled, which are wasted. Well, Poland is one of the countries where most medicines are used and where most medicines are bought. Do drugs that patients do not use have to be wasted? In many pharmacies, there is already a practice that there are special boxes or boxes that can be used for indefinite drugs, hermetically sealed toss, which can then be used. I know there's a lot of sleepovers that lack medication, but not just sleeping rooms. After all, many patients for various reasons cannot buy drugs, drugs are not available, are not imported, are too expensive, etc. So here's the problem, and here's my appeal, the appeal, first of all, to the pharmacies, so that such boxes, such boxes, will be displayed so that patients who don't use drugs can throw them in there. And why aren't patients using drugs? Well, among many reasons, one must certainly be pointed out. Very often doctors try which medicine will work most effectively, so they change medicines. It happens so often, for example, as I've been told, with antihypertensives. For those who have too high blood pressure, different medicines are tried. One of the patients told me that she was prescribed about 60 tablets of the medicine, and she only used 10 tablets, so 50 should either be disposed of or given for further use. I am not telling you how to solve this problem, because this is not the place and not the time, but I am appealing. Once from the same stand, many years ago, I called for the proper use of food that is wasted. I lived to see a time when food was no longer wasted. The baker doesn't have to throw away buns and a restaurantist can pass on unused food. That's very good. The same may be true with medicines. Let's not waste drugs that are tightly closed, with a good expiration date, because they can be passed on to patients. Let's think about the right places in the drugstores where they can be returned. There are very few places in Warsaw today, so I think the problem is waiting for a solution, and I dedicate it to the appropriate resort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-08-sejm-58-3.u183	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 58th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 59th session of the Sejm, convened on 27 and 28 February and 1 March 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 12 min 24]]
