ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u1	Good morning. I'm reopening the session. And I'm extending the recess until 10:15. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 01 to 10 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u2	High Senate, resume your session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. High Senate, I inform you that on 10 May 2018 the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances examined, in accordance with classified information procedures, directed by the Senate Marshal on 6 April this year. Information of the National Tax Administration on the activities referred to in Article. 113.117, Art. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Art. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 (Article 1 (10) of the Rules of Procedure) 120. Article 2 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 122 and Article 122 thereof. The Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration for the period from 1 March 2017 to 31 December 2017. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that today the Senior Convention has decided to extend its deliberations on 15 and 16 May 2018, which is Tuesday and Wednesday. Therefore, after consideration of the ratification laws, this is the twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth points, a block of votes will be held over the laws that have been dealt with so far. We proceed to the joint examination of points 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989; the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987; the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992; the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. The texts of the laws are contained in prints 795, 796, 797, 798, and the Commission's reports In print No 795 A, 796 A, 797 A and 798 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to present the committee's reports on the laws under consideration. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Minister! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union discussed these laws at its meeting. The purpose of these four regulations is to terminate the relevant agreements between the government of the Polish People's Republic and the governments of individual countries. Those acts are in line with the recommendations of the European Union. The European Union encourages its members to systematically terminate bilateral agreements because the regulations currently in force in the countries of the European Union replace them. During the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, a thread was raised as to who was the first to express these agreements Whether the Government of the Republic of Poland terminates these agreements or other parties, namely France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Cyprus and the Netherlands. In this case, as explained by the representatives of the Minister and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, the initiator is the Polish side, because these bilateral agreements are less favourable to our country than the regulations in force in the European Union. These bilateral agreements form the basis for damages and redress proceedings, which, on the basis of these agreements, are used much more willingly by French, Dutch and Belgian investors than by our entrepreneurs investing in these countries. Therefore, the regulations currently in force in the European Union are more beneficial to our country. The committee therefore recommends to the High Senate that these laws be adopted without amendments after the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u4	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can see that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Tomasz Grodzki report. Is there anyone else? No. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u5	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have this question: what are the reactions of those countries to whom we make agreements? Are they all satisfied with the termination of these bilateral agreements, or is there any variation here? If the senator would like to bring this matter closer to the High House... Thank you very much. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u6	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules resulting from these bilateral agreements are, of course, more favourable to the countries that are our partners in these agreements, but At least that's the case with the Foreign Ministry's report. Our decisions do not meet with some very violent opposition and refusal. We have a period of termination of these agreements and within this framework they will be terminated. As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed us, it is in the interest of the Republic of Poland to terminate all these agreements which bind us to the countries of the European Union in a bilateral manner. So that, of course, individual countries may have some resistance, but we are acting on the basis of international law and in accordance with national interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u8	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the legislation under consideration? No. Good. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wishes to ask such a question, I understand. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u9	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have this question: do we have any other contracts just coming from, so to speak, from the previous legal situation, from the time when they were concluded, i.e. before the EU regulation, which recommends changes in this area? And second, if you'd be kind enough to point out... So my first question is, do we even have such contracts, or is this the last series of pronouncements of such contracts? And two: would the Minister like to point out which countries specifically did not express, so to speak, enthusiasm for the termination of these agreements? This also shows a great deal about the economic interests of these countries in the Republic of Poland. Because of course I think that this is the most beneficial solution for Poland, what we are doing right now. But here it would be worth paying attention also to this element, so that the High House has knowledge of this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u10	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Poland is now a party to some 60 such agreements, practically with all the Member States of the European Union. These agreements were concluded, as you can see from the example discussed here today, in the period of the turn of 1989, there is one of 1987. And at the beginning of the 1990s, when we were not a member of the Union, it was about securing the interests of investors. Since the beginning of our membership of the Union, the Commission has questioned the validity of these agreements and it is not in our interest that they operate. In this connection, we, in particular in recent months, when the Commission has begun to insist more and more on us, and, moreover, on all countries, on the termination of such agreements, or at least on the resolution of their functioning in the legal system, have undertaken surveys, more or less official, with all the Member States of the Union. The procedures that may be used in this case are two. The first is the one we're talking about today, that is just a one-sided termination. It is not entirely beneficial to us, because it provides protection to investors for 10 and 20 years, depending on the specific agreement, after the entry into force of the law. The other way is better for us. It is based on the fact that both countries agree to end this agreement by making a joint declaration. That, of course, also requires a legal road. And now, for example. from the first group of countries we have in the Sejm a dozen... on the agenda of the current session of the Sejm there are several further laws on the termination of agreements with the Member States of the Union, but there are also, for example. the law on the common will to terminate such an agreement with Latvia. This is so important that it gives us the opportunity to terminate this agreement immediately, without this 10- or 20-year period of protection for entrepreneurs, in the sense that there is a de facto arbitration procedure, which, as we see in the case of Eureko, is not entirely beneficial to us. If the Act on the termination of the agreement with Portugal were adopted, we would have had another way of proceeding and ending the dispute with Eureko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u12	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask, Senator? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u13	Thank you very much, Marshal. And, Minister, does the Foreign Ministry have such general knowledge of how these agreements are being terminated in other countries? Are we in front of the table, or are we in the middle, or... Well, how are we doing? If the Minister's knowledge of the subject were to bring it closer...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u14	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! All other countries, mainly Central and Eastern Europe, because let us remember that the process of concluding these agreements mainly concerns the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which have concluded these agreements with the former or old countries, say, the European Union is taking action in this direction. We also have agreements between countries within, say, Central and Eastern Europe, and this process is also very different, and we are also having conversations with some countries, as we are able to agree, for example, with Latvia, to apply a more favourable path for us, but with some, it is no longer such a simple matter. And we have, for example, Lithuania, the bill of termination on our part concerning the contract with Lithuania is being processed at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u16	Thank you very much. You're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, and then you're Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, there are, like, two modes of pronouncing these contracts, maybe not two modes, but two possibilities: either at any time, or in a specific time window. As far as the Kingdom of the Netherlands is concerned, I understand that we must hurry, because it is possible until 1 August 2018, then we will have to wait 10 years. Yeah, am I right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: From the moment...]] Yes. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes. From the moment she...]] In the case of Belgium and Luxembourg, it is possible to terminate in general from 2 August 2019 until 2 August 2020. Why are we in such a hurry about this deal with Belgium and Luxembourg? And the question is, how many more contracts are there, where we're kind of limited in time, so we're gonna have to wait for this window where we can say them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u18	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This is a matter of specific provisions, a specific agreement, it is not a matter of our recognition. These periods are provided for in each contract accordingly, hence simply this difference. Another agreement is in the case of Belgium, it may be different in the case of France, Lithuania, Great Britain, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u20	And how many more contracts are there for which we will have to wait almost 10 years, i.e. Eight, nine, seven years? Because there are agreements, they extend automatically every 10 years, and they can be terminated by the end of their term. So we're gonna have to wait, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u22	Except it is. And let's keep that in mind. Undoubtedly the last period when these agreements end. They can't be anymore, they won't be extended. On 6 March this year, the Court of Justice of the European Union gave its ruling. True, it was for a preliminary ruling, so it only referred to a specific case. By the way, Slovakia had this kind of problem. As a result of this decision, the Commission requires the States to end the operation of these agreements. Therefore, they will no longer be extended for further periods. It may be so, but it already depends on the European Commission, on its determination and speed of action, that it will somehow want to get you to some comprehensive solutions. However, this is a question of an undefined future that we have no influence on, because it could be in a few months, it might as well be in a few years. Therefore, from our point of view, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u24	Minister, since not only is there a favor here, but we are actually being pushed by the Commission, I would like to know whether the Ministry has tried in any way to use European channels to ensure that those countries that are being declared are functioning longer than when we agree... What steps have you taken through European channels to get these countries to conclude these agreements together?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u25	Activities in these matters are, as a rule, carried out in a two-track manner. As I mentioned, the European Commission is... well, maybe it doesn't have to, because so far there are consultations and communications sent to countries to end such an agreement. And we are also taking part in these discussions, meetings on this subject, raising the arguments that the European Commission is making, but we are also having bilateral discussions. And all these agreements did not come to one meeting of the High House because we are having talks with individual countries, trying to convince them of this simpler way for us to end specific agreements. If we have a declaration like this or another, then we can proceed by adopting a rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u26	You're still Senator Comforter, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u27	Minister, is it possible to conclude that the European Commission is acting here in the interest of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u28	The European Commission is working here primarily to enforce Achmea's judgment and to enforce EU law. At this point, it is not so much in Poland's interest as it is in the interests of all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that signed such agreements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u29	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Adam Gawada. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question in connection with this contract termination process. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any knowledge of what specific implications these agreements may entail? And does the Ministry have such knowledge as maybe adverse consequences for Poland? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u31	Yes, Minister, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! May I ask you to clarify to what extent? Because if we're talking about the legal dimension, it's not. And if we are talking about a political dimension, it does not seem that they are possible, because the termination of these agreements is the implementation of European Union law, and therefore it cannot have any negative consequences for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u33	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u34	Mostly I was talking about the economic consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u35	It is mainly that investors in these countries have an interest in ensuring that these agreements last as long as possible. This is therefore not of economic importance to us, it is of economic importance to investors from these countries. Why? For one simple reason: arbitration clauses, because that is really what this is all about, are that the case is being brought under arbitration. The various cases in this respect show that this arbitration is usually more favourable to the investor than to the State. Therefore, if this is the case, as is apparent from European Union law, then these disputes can first be dealt with by common courts in the Member States, for example. in Poland, and ultimately also by EU courts, it can be presumed that this procedure will then be, say... that the interpretation of the rules will be more beneficial... or otherwise: more balanced than in the case of arbitration rulings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u36	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you also.]] I'm opening a joint discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The joint discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, at this moment I am announcing a recess until 11.10. The vote will take place at 11.10 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 37 to 11 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u37	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! In a moment, the Senate will vote on the laws that have been examined so far. After the vote, I'll schedule a recess until Tuesday, May 15th by 11:00 p.m. On Tuesday, following the reopening of the session, the order will be supplemented, as I had previously announced, by the Personal Data Protection Act and the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The agenda will also be supplemented by the Act on Central Communication Port and the Act on amending the Act on Employee Pension Programmes. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants and persons employed in the financial sector. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 73 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and the Law on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 792 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The report of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which have designated me as rapporteur, is in Senate print No 792 Z. The Commissions at its meeting on 10 May considered the request submitted in the course of the debate on 9 May 2018 to the Law amending the Civil Code and certain other laws. During the debate, one request was made, a request from Senator Rulewski. The committees have taken the position that they are requesting the adoption of the proposal contained in point I, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask that the amendment be voted on because this is a good proposal. In this way we extend the law enforcement period from 3 to 6 years, and this is a very good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u41	Thank you very much. Do you, Senator Jan Rulewski, want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u42	Yes. We extend the law enforcement period to 6 years, but this applies to maintenance debtors.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u43	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions supported by the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Against, against.]] Don't tell yourselves out loud. Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 55 votes against, 15 against and 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 793 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 81 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and the mortgage. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Penal Code and the Law on Prison Service. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of the committees are asking for an amendment to Senator Print No 788 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 52 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 15]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement and the Law on Prison Service. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator's printing No 786 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted 79 and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 787 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 60 votes against, 6 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. We would like to return to the 11th item of the agenda: the Act on Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 790 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the committee, at its meeting on 10 May this year, after considering the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 9 May on the Law on the Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 metres in length, supported the conclusions set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 in the table of proposals and requested their adoption by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u45	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Maciej Grubski, to present proposals supported by a minority of joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I ask the High Senate to support Amendment 1. The amendment concerns the addition of the following point: a recreational yacht of not more than 12 m in length or a mechanical drive with a power of not more than 15 kW, operated exclusively in Polish inland waters. This is about facilitating tourism, so that yachts to this size are not registered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u47	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Marek Rocki and Senator Jan Rulewski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Please, Senator Jan Rulewski:
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u48	Dear Izbo! If you want. And that's what's gonna happen to you. A pleasant holiday surrounded by great yachts powered by even greater powers, over 100 horses... And above all, if you're thinking of all those who want to rest safely, vote for safety. You can cross out Rulewski, but for safety...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u49	We wouldn't dare. Thank you very much, Senator. In addition, the committee's rapporteur was Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Mr. Senator, would you like to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 exempts from registration of recreational yachts with a maximum length of 12 m if they are operated exclusively in Polish inland waters and are not equipped with a mechanical drive of more than 15 kW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Just a little bit longer, huh? We're still waiting because... Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 34 for, 41 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 2, 3 and 9 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure precision in terms of the specific criminal liability to which the declarations required by the law are to be made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 34 votes against, 45 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 4 introduces the correct method of reference to another law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 32 votes against, 45 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 5 maintains the obligation to obtain simplified inland navigation certificates and the related obligation to carry out technical reviews for all recreational yachts and vessels used for amateur fishing and equipped with engines of more than 75 kW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 29 votes against, 50 against and three abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 6 aims at correctly expressing public-law obligations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 29 for, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 eliminates the abbreviation used to name existing registers as it may mislead the addressees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 32 for, 45 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 takes into account the terminology used in the Inland Navigation Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 31 votes, 45 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 deletes words which do not reflect the scope of the amendments made by the Act under consideration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 30 for, 44 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was rejected. We'll proceed to the vote... [[The voice from the room: The conclusion must be because...]] Haven't any of them been accepted? The senator raises his hand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u50	I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u51	No corrections. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now we give the results. Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 49 for, 30 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. We accepted her without any adjustments. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 795 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 for, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 796 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted 79 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, gentlemen, if you're talking here, would you mind not talking? It's very disturbing, gentlemen. You're laughing, you're joking... [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Cyprus on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 797 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted 80 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Cyprus on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 4 June 1992. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 798 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 79 were in favour, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. We would like to return to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Rent Act. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 806 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Rent Act. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: a law on special arrangements to support people with a significant degree of disability. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 807 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 11 May 2018 discussed the proposals made during the debate on 10 May 2018 on the Law on Special Solutions to Support Persons with Significant Disabilities and presents the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is willing to adopt a proposal for a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Group of Senators of the Civic Platform has taken a reasonable approach to both presented projects related to the current conflict between the authorities, between the government and protesting disabled persons or their guardians. Our focus is particularly on ensuring that the problem of their actual and legitimate demands is resolved in the spirit of compromise and agreement. The evidence is that the act from the previous point was unanimously supported by a group of senators from the Civic Platform. However, the second law, on special arrangements to support people with a significant degree of disability, no longer raises such an understanding in us. As far as the group of proposals is concerned, we can also talk about understanding for the government's actions in the field of medical assistance. But only medically. As for this medical assistance, we see that a number of provisions are apparent or inconsistent. Because it is true that it is intended to improve the health situation of this millionth environment, even through the introduction of consecutive use of medical and rehabilitation services, but also the truth is what Senator Augustine discovered, that yes, the limits of queues are abolished, but the financial limits are not abolished. As a result, we have the phenomenon of apparent help, specific Inflanty, because the result will be a queue in line. We're against legislative impersonation. Further amendments to the table proposed in the name of compromise They say that at least a year, that is to say, until we all come to grips with these complex issues, in this pyramid of various conflicting information and assessments, as well as financial means, we must recognize that the current care allowance, the benefit for 12 years has been dead and morally unacceptable... The point is that this benefit of PLN 153 should be touched. It is morally unacceptable because no need for rehabilitation from the world of people with disabilities... [[But, Senator, I'm asking you to make a proposal, not talk about the whole politics. I can talk about the whole...]] I'm talking about the benefit of PLN 153... [[Focus on presenting proposals supported by a minority of committees, because you're moving away from the subject. Here you go, on the subject.]] Good. [[Thank you.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd prefer you to present this, but if it's hard for you to do it, then I'm talking about it. The point is that this morally dead and material benefit of PLN 153 you know this, right? Dead for 12 years, he was moved and in the name of compromise with this environment raised to the amount of PLN 500. Next, the minority's request also concerns helping to empower all those families with disabilities to a significant extent who want to benefit from the rehabilitation tournament, and grants them the right to one such tournament for at least 5 years, with partial payment from the Treasury. In addition, the legislative department considered that 2 out of 4 provisions of this law are non-normative. So I suggest we delete them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u55	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? These are Senators Augustine, Rulewski and Majer. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Without amendments, including mine, this bill will be very risky not only politically It doesn't meet the right demands of the protesters. But also because it introduces apparent solutions. Medical supplies without... [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. We're not having a debate right now. Please...]] I would like to move on to the amendment. [[Please make your proposal because this is what you want me to say. Just focus on it.]] If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd have done it by now. [[But you've started too long an introduction that's different from what it's supposed to be about. Okay, here's the thing.]] The apparent nature of this solution in the case of medical materials is that, although limits are lifted for persons with a significant degree of independence in terms of the number of materials available and the duration of their use, the financial limit is not lifted. As a result, it makes these solutions apparent, or even, in many cases, bad, because it will affect quality. We tried to explain at the committee meeting and later whether it was true. We have been confirmed that if we create greater pressure on these medical devices, because the remaining limits will be lifted, then the unit price of the product will have to be lower in order to fit in this limit, or for some time there will be no money and these funds will not be available at all. That's why I'm convincing you not to go this way. Here's another thing. You have not been able to explain on the occasion of this amendment why experts assume that the benefit of this benefit will be 400,000, and the NFZ assumes that 150 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is similar with the queues. We'll have queues in the queues. What do we tell those who are after accidents who are after strokes who need rehabilitation? That they're gonna wait now because they're gonna be the first to have a lot of independence? All of the 1 million 300,000 lined up. You're taking a big risk, and that's against the expectations of those who are protesting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-11-senat-60-3.u57	Thank you very much. Do any of the other applicants want to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his application for point 6 of Section II in print No 807 Z. Does any of your senators wish to uphold the senator's withdrawn request? Thank you. We are voting on Senator Richard Majer's motion, supported by the committee, to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 53 votes against, 13 against and 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special solutions supporting persons with significant disabilities. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Passenger Name Record Processing Act. We return to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the law on amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate Print No 809 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 53 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 35]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a recess until Tuesday, 11:00 p.m.... Which one is it? Fifteen? Yeah, 15th. ...until May 15th, 11:00 p.m. The meeting will resume on Tuesday 15 May at 11 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at 11 minutes 45]]
