ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the examination of point six in a moment. I would just like to inform the High House that, when this item is completed, we will already have prints and we will be able to complete the agenda, and then we will complete the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: information for the Polish Parliament and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2017, the Council of the European Union chaired Estonia. The text of the information is contained in print No 709. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At its meeting on 31 January 2018, the Commission burned the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the Minister, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, who is already standing here. I ask the Minister to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Estonian Presidency focused in its plans for the presidency of the Council of the European Union for 6 months 2017 on four areas called the open and innovative Europe, a secure and secure Europe, a digital Europe, inclusive and sustainable Europe. With regard to this first aspect, i.e. an open and innovative Europe, Poland was interested in the efforts of the Estonian Presidency to implement the Community market strategy and supported this. This is the constant direction of Polish policy in the European Union. We also wanted this to translate into something concrete legislative. The only initiative to strengthen the Community market in services here is the European Service Charter, which is intended to extend mutual recognition of qualifications and reduce administrative burdens on companies, companies that provide services on the Community market, in particular across borders. As far as security is concerned, it was a politically important topic, not only because of the external situation of the European Union but also because of the unresolved issue of migratory pressure. Here, the establishment of PESCO, structural cooperation in defence policy, is certainly worth noting. Poland is one of the founding countries of this institution, this way of functioning, this strengthening of the European Union's defence policy. However, as we stressed in the course of the negotiation of the notification, during the negotiation of the mandate, and as we stress today, any steps to strengthen the European Union's defence policy, including PESCO, should be taken in close cooperation, should be synergistic in relation to what is happening in NATO, in particular as regards the adaptation of NATO at our external border, at the eastern border of the Pact. We draw attention to the fact that all efforts to strengthen the role of the European Union in the area of security and defence should take into account the fact that threats to Europe's security are not only from the south but also from the east, and that both are strategic from the EU's point of view and equally important. This is a prerequisite for all Member States to have a similar level of joint ownership, shared responsibility for these politically justified efforts. The Eastern Partnership Summit, which took place under the Presidency, also deserves attention, was prepared by the Estonian Presidency. The Eastern Partnership is not in the best condition today. This is an EU project which should be the subject of greater attention from the Heads of Government. The various problems in the south and the internal problems of the European Union cause that the Union is not paying enough attention to our eastern neighbourhood today. Poland was committed to making the Eastern Partnership Summit an important step towards the revival of the Eastern, neighbourhood policy of the European Union. Two things have been achieved that certainly deserve to be noted. Firstly, funds, TNT support instruments, i.e. transport infrastructure support funds, will be open to the Eastern Partnership countries. The second point is the signing of an association agreement with Armenia, i.e. the creation of a relatively unambitious and relatively narrow, but nevertheless The basis for developing cooperation with a country which at a certain stage turned against the Eastern Partnership concept and considered that, in principle, contractual relations with the European Union were sufficient. It's a step in the right direction. It's certainly not enough, but it's in the right direction. As regards security in the context of migration, there are three issues I would like to draw your attention to. Firstly, among the legislative issues, an agreement was reached on the control of traffic at the external borders, on the control of entry and exit at the external borders of the European Union. There are two legal acts that will clearly strengthen Member States' capacity to control traffic at the external borders. This is important not only directly for the control of migration movements, to a large extent illegal, but also for the internal situation in the Schengen area, which today is being questioned mainly because the social group is growing. The nations, the Member States of the European Union, who note the dependence, the obvious relationship between the tightness of the external border and the capacity of the Schengen area and the possibility of maintaining the Schengen area. We see, I'd say, persisting. It's not a big scale, but it's disturbing. The state of emergency but long-term controls at the internal borders of the European Union. We believe that it will be possible to effectively eliminate this emergency situation and restore the desired state, i.e. the lack of border controls at the internal borders of the European Union, only if we can reliably say as the European Union that external borders are protected. These two pieces of legislation that I mentioned certainly brings this perspective closer. The second initiative in this area, which I would like to draw attention to, is the establishment of a trust fund for Africa. This is one of the instruments whose aim is to stop the root causes of migration. Poland is financially involved in this instrument, as are many other instruments aimed at halting the root causes of migration. The issue of reform of the asylum system, the EU asylum system, is still unsolved. Among many legal proposals... I think there is a willingness to compromise in many areas, for most of these legal proposals, and the problem is closely linked to it. This is basically the heart of this reform. The question is... In the opinion of the European Commission, the Dublin Regulation still provides for the introduction of "in one form or another," depending on the countries concerned. The mechanism for automatic allocation of refugee traffic between Member States, which raises opposition not only to Poland but also to several other countries. We maintain that there is no reason for the European Union to have any impact on the management of refugee traffic between Member States. This issue, despite some of the Union's powers to be mobilised, should, in view of the political situation, remain for the decisions of the Member States This will be better not only for the matter itself, but also for the process of European integration, which has been challenged precisely due to the failure of internal mechanisms for managing migration flows. Here we are proposing effective instruments, instruments that have worked well and which are able to unite the Member States. These are instruments from the broad range of external migration policies. The third aspect, which is extremely important and very strongly linked to the nature of reforms in Estonia in recent years, concerns digital issues. We had a digital summit in Tallinn, whose main message was to increase political pressure, to promote the political issue of the free movement of non-personal data. The regulation in this case has been agreed far too long, as has all other elements of the digital market package. This market has very strong support from the countries. Poland is one of the countries initiating support for the Digital Single Market at European Council level We have twice signalled the initiative of the countries, quite a broad initiative of the countries on this issue. However, we clearly see a very large deficit of real legislative action. These issues should be much faster, because setting standards on the Community digital market is not only an urgent issue because we need European standards in this area. These are purely cross-border issues But also because the lack of standards in this market delays the development of infrastructure, including the 5G network, which is one of the key elements of development, significant development, a significant development of the digital market. The fourth issue is inclusive and sustainable Europe in both social and environmental terms. Here I would like to draw attention to a number of issues that have either made very significant progress in the legislative process, as you know, in the Union, it is very time-bound, often for many years. Or they've just gained a final shape. The first issue is the posting of workers. Here the compromise that was concluded in the Council for Social Affairs is still unacceptable from a Polish point of view. We see a clear bow towards the position of Central European countries in a number of areas such as long-term posting; subcontracting; reducing the requirements for posting workers. These elements of the negotiated yield have been significantly reduced as a result of the position of the European Parliament, which has restored many even worse solutions in this area. And the key aspect of the overall assessment of this package is the solutions that will be adopted for international transport. It was recognised and this was a compromise that still promises better solutions for the future. That international transport should be subject to derogations from the general principles of posting and that these derogations should be shaped by the Transport Council. This is the right position if the Transport Council is in fact able to adopt real derogations, significant restrictions on the posting regime towards international transport. Only then will it be possible to assess whether the whole package is worthy of support, whether we are holding back or we will have to deal with the persistent opposition of Poland towards those solutions which are to guarantee a higher level of social standards, which is commendable. Poland has no problem with ensuring that social standards for services or work are as high as possible, but we would like to avoid the fact that the side effect of these measures is simply to reduce the market, reduce competition and protectism, which in some Member States is an undisclosed objective of raising social standards, particularly in the field of public services. We have known this discussion since 2004 and 2005, when we first tried to improve the functioning of the Community market through the Services Directive. The second point is the proclamation of the Pillar of Social Rights in Gothenburg. This interinstitutional proclamation is of course important for maintaining political support for the European social model. Here Poland also has no doubts that this model should be preserved and should be developed. However, we note that the proclamation should not create any reason for extending the legislative remit of the European Union. The European Union in the field of social policy has limited competences and should remain so no matter how politically we articulate our support for the social model. This case was very strongly emphasized in the proclamation itself, very strongly sounded in Göteborg, among others, and maybe mainly thanks to Poland. With regard to energy and climate issues, which were also included in this package on a sustainable Europe, we have managed to communicate to some extent, say, improve the compromise in the case of ETS and non-ETS, namely the CO2 control system in the ETS market and in this area, which is not covered by the ETS market. This improvement is important. We appreciate the fact that the Council, following the February collision, the frontal conflict between the interests of the countries of Central Europe and other countries of the European Union, managed to shape a compromise which is clearly better than the February approach. Raise the question of the envelope of free allowances, among others. for Polish energy is, of course, a step in the right direction. Raising the issue of the Modernization Fund, which can serve some aspects of the Polish energy strategy, is of course worth paying attention to. However, at the end of these negotiations, we assessed that the compromise is still not sufficient to support this solution. We have decided to express our appreciation for the elements that are, as it were, moving towards our position by abstaining from the vote on this matter. With regard to non-ETS, i.e. all elements that are outside the market for allowances, this is mainly about agriculture, transport and construction. Poland has managed to significantly reduce the level of reduction commitments in this area to 0.4%. However, this mechanism remains a difficult mechanism in terms of implementation. Regardless of what our national demand for thermomodernisation looks like, as we have been talking about recently very much in the context of smog or communication and transport, as we are talking about in the context of e-mobility... Poland has very ambitious plans here. Their implementation can contribute to the implementation of CO2 reduction targets. However, the EU regime remains a difficult element of the whole puzzle. The last case is the winter package. We have talked about this many times, also in the Senate. The Winter Package covers a wide range of areas. There are at least 2 areas which, from a Polish point of view, involve difficulties. The first issue is the scope of regulatory competence vis-à-vis the electricity market. This is a very sensitive element because it directly affects the level of electricity prices, which are very different in the European Union. There is also a difference in the ability of European societies to accept such or other prices, consisting of such or other components, often environmental. In Poland this ability is certainly less, not only because of the wealth of Polish families, but also because of the scale of value, in which issues of possible accelerated energy transformation do not play as much role as in our Western partners. A key element of the winter package dispute is the question of recognising or establishing a legal path for the possibility of implementing the Polish power market. The introduction of the Polish power market is a prerequisite for rebuilding investment opportunities in Polish energy industry. The plans of the Ministry of Energy in this matter are well balanced, well thought out. We saw originally in the European Commission's proposals for the winter package the entries that were clearly confrontational. I think that today we can recognise that a significant part of the problems have been solved by introducing rules for the temporary application of the law, certain temporary exemptions or inter-temporal rules which, I hope, will bring us the most desirable effect at the end of this road. There is a stronger regime in the European Union as regards public aid to energy, which is needed everywhere, in every country. In the European Union, energy is not invested in energy without special regimes to support such investment, because it is by its very nature that they have a very long-term profitability horizon. I hope that at the end we will be able to recognise that the Polish power market concept will be able to develop freely and can be freely implemented without conflicting with EU regulations in this area. Finally, I would like to draw attention to two problems which were not included in the Presidency's work programme, either due to the rhythm of the Union's work, or to unplanned processes such as Brexit. In December, your members, with strong support from Poland, decided that the first phase of the Brexit negotiations represents sufficient progress. This is the wording taken from the recommendation of the European Council. Enough progress is, of course, a political concept, a judgmental concept. We considered that in terms of financial accounting, the rights of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, and the Irish issue Probably the most difficult, I would say, of the three cases identified in the first phase of the negotiations, there has been enough progress to move on to the second phase of the negotiations, which is to negotiate a new agreement on relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. In the meantime, there was a proposal for a transitional period. It would give us all a little more time to make the agreement look better. This agreement will be very difficult because it will not only apply to passive, I would say, divorce settlement between Great Britain and the European Union. It will deal with what is possible between the UK and the European Union once membership has ceased. As far as the Estonian Presidency is concerned, it can be said that on all matters that were important to the Union... For Poland, the question of guaranteeing the rights of Polish citizens in the UK and financial accounting, which will affect the complete settlement of this financial perspective, was particularly important. These solutions proposed in the joint report, recently translated into the language of the legal agreement, the language of the treaty, are good solutions, these are solutions which give us the guarantee, the full guarantee of what we were talking about in these negotiations. That is why we have expressed our firm support for opening up new stages of negotiations. The last issue among those issues which are difficult to recognise as part of the Presidency's work, simply arising from the Union's calendar, is the adoption of the annual budget for 2018. This is worth noting because we are getting closer to discussing the multiannual financial framework and this issue is playing an increasingly crucial role. The 2018 budget has shown that it is relatively easy, in a relatively good, non-confrontational atmosphere, to agree to adapt the annual budget of the European Union in such a way that, on the one hand, it is possible to find money for new purposes that no one is questioning, while at the same time reducing any side effects on those objectives which remain important, particularly in the field of agricultural policy and cohesion. If these negotiations, always relatively simpler, annual negotiations on the budget, were an indication of an important reference point for an agreement on the multiannual financial framework, then we could be much calmer. This is an example of this. Of course, it's a small but very good example. How can the expectations of all Member States be met, not only those who are demanding very urgently today, sometimes in a very open, even confrontational, budgetary revolution, which would mean a sudden shift of the European Union's attention to issues that are completely new, unfortunately at the expense of issues that remain important to the European Union. I've mentioned them before. To sum up, I will say that the period of the Estonian Presidency was a very good time for the Union, a very good time for Poland. We were very pleased with all the progress I was trying to bring you closer together. Of course, Poland belongs to those countries that have always expected to accelerate work, in particular legislative work in important areas such as security. However, we must accept that the EU system sometimes takes time, because it is a multilateral system that sometimes requires Also due to the political processes in the Member States Pause, stop, that's why this pace is probably never satisfactory. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u3	Thank you, Minister. Now the senators can ask the Minister questions about the information presented. The first, I believe, is Senator Jackowski. Next, the list is kept in the order of notifications. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. The period of this Presidency was also the period when the European Commission decided to implement the Article. 7. I therefore have questions: what was Estonia's position as president on this issue? And were there any discussions on this subject or any consultations between the Polish side and Estonia, which chaired the work of the European Union? And another question: has this decision of the European Commission in any way been consulted with the Estonian Presidency? Has the Estonian Presidency been informed of the initiation of this procedure, which, in my view, has no basis for Treaty or substance? Yeah, but it's a separate subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u5	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u6	This is certainly not part of the Estonian Presidency's programme. I therefore did not want to mention him in this context, in order to avoid even suggesting that this has anything to do with the Presidency's activities. It was an autonomous decision by the European Commission. I hope that it has been intensively consulted with the Presidency, because the point of this proposal is to move the dispute between Poland and the European Commission from the European Commission to the Council of the European Union, which is closely linked to the Presidency. But it is an autonomous decision of the Commission, unrelated to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u7	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u8	I understand that this was an autonomous decision of the Estonian Presidency, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Commission.]] Yes, the Commission, not the Estonian Presidency. But what is Estonia's attitude to this procedure, Minister? Not the Estonian Presidency, but Estonia. That's my first question, which is the continuation of my predecessor's question. I'd like to ask the Minister about Nord Stream 2. Do you believe that this revision of the Gas Directive, which may include Nord Stream 2 has a chance, is there no chance of passing as proposed? And what's the ratio, Minister? That's the third question. Do Nord Stream 2 individual countries of the Visegrad Group? Do they? They're against it? They're neutral? I understand there are three possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u9	The Visegrad Group countries' relationship to Nord Stream 2 was presented in a joint list of their prime ministers, in a letter addressed to the President of the European Council and the President of the European Commission. This letter is clearly critical. These reasons are presumably different, because they sometimes relate to the market situation, sometimes relate to strategic aspects, but this letter, which was signed in a wider group than the Visegrad Group, is clearly negative, in particular in relation to the possible inaction of the European Commission in relation to the implementation of this project. As regards the revision of the Gas Directive, it was proposed by President Juncker as a direct response to the appeal of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, which was expressed at the European Council meeting. This was, of course, an element previously agreed, but we have been asking for clarification for a long time. Hearing the voices of some Member States, the voices of doubts as to whether the European Union's legal regime applies at all to such investment, which is in some part located outside the economic zone of the Member States of the European Union, when we heard those voices, we felt that since there were such doubts that we did not share... For the sake of clarity, Poland takes the view that without the revision of the gas directive, the legal regime of the European Union should be applied, for some reason it is not, but should be. There is no reason not to use it, given that regardless of where any part of this pipe is to be located, all its functionality affects the common market, so it is a completely artificial case-making based on this physical aspect, that part of the pipe lies outside the economic zone. This is a completely artificial approach to this case. The essence of the case is that the whole of this pipe affects the Community market and therefore the whole of this pipe should be subject to the rules of the Community market. But in view of these doubts, sometimes expressed also by legal services, we considered that, in that case, we would ask for clarification of the concepts of the Gas Directive. The European Commission has responded to these expectations. The agreement on this matter was very good. At the same time, in the Council of the European Union, we see that some countries, in particular those directly concerned with the implementation of this initiative, are organising an obstruction of legislative action on this issue. The European Parliament will be able to help here, I hope, relatively quickly, because time here also counts. To adopt its legislative position on this matter. This is not a new situation, this problem has existed for years. We see that some countries recognise that it would be better for the European Union not to take the floor on this matter, even though the matter directly concerns the shape of the Community market, which is absolutely key competences of the European Union. This is a very interesting case, showing that sometimes, when we are dealing with undisputed, crucial competences, you can refrain from their execution, while there are also moments when we are dealing with a situation where competences are not so unambiguous and can be activated. This is a fairly high level of freedom to apply EU law. If this were to end with the fact that the European Commission or the European Council, the Council of the European Union will legislatively recognise that it will cover its eyes and refrain from action, it would be a very interesting case of far-reaching political consequences, I believe, because it will talk a lot about how the European Union works in difficult matters. As regards Estonia's position vis-à-vis Article. 7, this should be asked by representatives of Estonia. I would not like to speak on behalf of any Member State except Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u10	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the first question will be very specific. Namely or during the Presidency of Estonia This would show a certain commitment and that this country, and the wider Baltic States, had some discussions to show that a well-known infrastructure initiative, i.e. The construction of Via Carpatia is a strategic idea of the European Union, resulting inter alia. on the grounds of security and international trade, empowering Central and Eastern Europe? Has this kind of logic been reflected anywhere in the work of the Estonian Presidency? The second question concerns a similar question, i.e. Did Estonia and the Baltic States during this Presidency give any signal that they are particularly interested in supporting the Polish idea of the Intermarine, which would also be... This would involve a natural ally of Estonia, Sweden, and therefore the whole process of Estonian policy, which could possibly have its reflection, in so far as, of course, the Presidency offers such opportunities at all... Was it visible? And how does the Polish side feel about it? And the third case. Namely you spoke about Polish policy towards Ukraine during this period. Is there a clear indication... You also talked about Armenia, Ukraine, and Armenia. Is there any basic premise that would indicate that the Polish state's policy is at this stage variable from the canonical assumption, which historically, can be said to refer to the politics of one of the most outstanding Polish politicians in our history, namely Adam Jerzy Czartoryski?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u12	Please, Minister. [[Did we go that far?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u13	As far as Via Carpatia is concerned, this has been the case for the past few months. And that's not a question. The Estonian Presidency alone has certainly been promoted more clearly than in recent years. She is present today in discussions on the development of energy, telecommunications, road infrastructure to the extent that she has never been before. However, this lies on the shoulders of the Member States most interested in this matter, in particular Poland. I believe that this issue still does not have the right place, the right rooting in Union policy as such. However, within the Union it has sounded stronger than before. As far as the Triangle is concerned, we have a similar situation. This is an initiative that has emerged from Member States interested in making their voice stronger in EU discussions, in particular in the area of infrastructure. And I think that a certain element of the test will be whether these countries will be able to clearly define their objectives, in particular infrastructure, in the debate on the multiannual financial framework, because this will be concrete. This will be the first moment that can be displayed in concrete terms. As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, Poland is certainly keenly interested in ensuring that Ukraine is safe, that it is resilient, that it is reformed to stand on its own feet as strongly as possible. It certainly doesn't change anything around here. But, of course, at the same time, because of the events that take place in Ukraine's internal life and beyond its borders, we encounter, just as the whole of the Union, certain limitations, certain difficulties in implementing this policy. And these difficulties are not only on the Polish side or even more on the European Union's side. These difficulties are also in Ukrainian political life. But when it comes to intentions and aspirations, nothing changes here. It is in the Polish interest for Ukraine to be stable, reformed and resilient. Resistant not only to internal disturbances, but also to what is addressed to Ukraine from the outside. All this requires huge works, which are mostly on the shoulders of Ukrainian politicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u14	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u15	Minister, you were talking about those work on posted workers and transport to the end. I'd like to hear from you if Poland... Because this is the essence of the matter, the essence of the question. You were talking about compromise, and at the same time you were talking about how it didn't satisfy us. In terms of what does not satisfy us, is Poland able to build a block that would be able to resist these negative solutions? That's the first question. The second concerns the Götebor Proclamation, which you mentioned on the occasion of this pillar or the block on inclusive Europe. Of course, the countries themselves decide on social policy, but I would like to ask if there is any European control over progress in the implementation of the recommendations contained in this proclamation. I mean, for example. in the field of long-term care, it has been said that everyone has the right to affordable and quality-quality long-term care services, in particular home care, and environmental services. It's not enough to say that we're distant from this purpose. We're not even at the beginning of the road. Does this proclamation impose specific obligations on us? How will implementation of these provisions be controlled or promoted? Will there be European funds for this too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u16	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u17	The proclamation is a very serious political declaration of the EU institutions, including the institutions responsible for legislation, so it is of importance. However, it certainly does not create any new social policy commitments on the part of the Member States. This should remain so because Member States should be free to choose their own instruments in line with their own policies, which are shaped in the parliaments of the Member States, as well as in accordance with their own financial capacity. In any case, social policy always assumes a hierarchy of importance for the social objectives pursued in the Member State concerned. It's connected, for example. with a demographic structure. There are countries that pursue one objective, there are countries that pursue another objective, and it should remain so. Member States should be fully free to select instruments for both their policy objectives and their financial capacity. The European Union will never offer significant financial support for social policy, because it would be money beyond any imaginable possibilities of the European Union budget. This should not be expected because the scale of redistribution of the EU budget is simply beyond political reach. In conclusion, I stress that the proclamation contains a clear political commitment to follow in this However, the Member States are moving in this direction in accordance with the decisions of their governments, parliaments, in accordance with their own decisions. I Poland takes the view that this is the right solution, that this is the right hierarchy, the right arrangement of competences. We would like this commitment not to change anything in the division of competences between the Member States and the EU institutions, and this is actually included in the proclamation itself. We've been looking for records like this. As far as posting is concerned, Poland has already successfully organised a large group of resistances on transport. If it had not been for Polish activity in this matter, the rules of posting would have been imposed on the transport industry already in October. This is due to the Central European Group of States, as well as Ireland, Malta, Spain, Portugal. These are those countries which, due to their geographical peripherality and the specific situation of the transport sector, have effectively requested that the Social Affairs Council should not take decisions that would affect the transport sector. We would like these countries, under conditions of good cooperation and communication, to lead to important, fundamental derogations at the level of the Transport Council. Is that what's gonna happen? This is unknown because it depends on the political situation in each country. Not all of these countries have such a large transport sector, not in each of these countries the transport sector plays as much of a role as in Poland, and it has a significant impact on the level of compromise that these countries are able to accept. This is a reality that we meet very often in the Union. It is true that we have similar political positions, but, as it is said, the level of pain is different. So, of course, you need an important effort. and this effort is put into place by the Ministry of Infrastructure In order to maintain this coalition and to be able to introduce important changes to the legislative process, not cosmetic changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u18	The question is Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have three questions, but obviously related to the Estonian Presidency. Last year, this concept was quite dynamic, talking about the construction of the Union of three speeds. That was about a year ago. I would like to ask the Minister how this vision of a future Europe developed during the Estonian Presidency. Has any of these prospects won, and does it have a real chance of realization? I'm talking about those three scripts that once appeared. In recent years The second question was that we were very active in the Visegrad Group area. This is a lot of potential, because this is 65 million inhabitants of the European Union, this is quite a large group. Tell me, Minister, how Brussels accepts our commitment and development to the V4 Group. Is it positive or negative? Well, I don't think that's particularly worrying about Brussels, but we're dealing with a very strong bond between these four countries. Can we therefore count on us to be an increasingly serious partner in the discussion on the future of the European Union? The third question concerns the refugee relocation programme. The fact that the program failed, we all know and we see it. And the question is this: what was the new perspective during the Estonian Presidency, what is the vision of dealing with the migration crisis at the moment? Are there any new scenarios in Brussels that show how to reduce the number of migrants who come to Europe and change it clearly, even ethnically? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u20	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u21	I think that as far as migration is concerned, regardless of what the tone of political declarations looks like, it always appears in such a way that it is linked to the internal situation in countries, linked to what was said a year ago and before. No matter what the political declarations of each Member State look like Some of them are still calling very loudly for the European Union to play an active role in internal aspects of migration policy, and practice is quite different. The practice was radically directed at external instruments. And it's not just the border protection that has a huge significance here, it's not just this aspect. A lot of positive things have happened in this case. In fact, the European Union has shown that it is able to add value to the Member States. The strengthening of Frontex is a clear sign of this. We are interested that Frontex should continue to be strengthened to develop, because this is what the European Union could effectively take care of and actually help countries that are sometimes in an emergency, sometimes, for example, due to their geographical location, in such a situation that they need help. But this is also the issue of investment instruments for African countries, i.e. the countries of primary origin of migration, the Sahel countries. Recently, there was a conference in the European Union with the Sahel countries. There was an African Union summit The European Union, which served mostly this. This is also a matter of return and readmission policy. Without cooperation with third countries, an effective mechanism cannot be imagined, the strengthening of the readmission and return mechanism, which is necessary because an excellent percentage of people who use illegal migration routes is clearly economic migrants, illegal economic migrants, who do not deserve any international protection. Therefore, the only solution if Member States do not want anything else in terms of pure migration policy is readmission and return. These are also elements of political cooperation with individual countries, which aim to strengthen these countries internally, so that they are more resilient to destabilise their internal justice system, to fight corruption, so that these countries are not an easy prey on those political forces whose aim is to destabilize them. This destabilization is the main reason why people unfortunately have to or feel they have to leave their homes. And that's a huge scale, and nobody's gonna argue with that. But I'm sure there's a lot of polemics. about how to deal with it. The Polish position on this issue is very clear. Visegrad. I'm sure there's a lot of things going on. Not in all, but in a very large number of countries, the Visegrad Group has positions of convergence, due to the well-conceived budgetary interest, the economic interest, as these countries lie in a certain part of Europe. That's because of objective reasons. But I would certainly warn against such a... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. Gentlemen of the Senators, please silence your whispers.]] ... an interpretation that would lead to a reduction of Polish policy in the European Union to the Visegrad Group. The Visegrad Group is a very important reference point, but not the only reference point in our action at Union level. Where possible, we want to build a much broader agreement. This will be very crucial, very necessary, in particular in the debate on the multiannual financial framework. Already today, a group of countries interested in promoting cohesion policy in this debate is much wider than the Visegrad Group. As far as institutional issues are concerned, they were not on the Presidency's agenda, they did not take place in the regular work of the Presidency. This discussion took place earlier and will take place for the coming months, years, in the Member States, in the capitals of the Member States. And here's the collision of vision... She is not bipolar, there are certainly more than 2 concepts for the development of the Union. However, it is certainly one of the most fundamental institutional problems on the subject of unity versus diversity in the Union. We believe that maintaining the Union's scale and institutional integrity, legal integrity, the Union's budget, makes sense, but not because of the fact that we are somehow especially, extremely needed ♪ Although that's what it's gonna be ♪ Only because it is extremely necessary for Europe. Walking through the European Union through institutional, budgetary and legal disintegration means that Europe will simply be weaker, that it will be able to achieve its objectives even less effectively. Those objectives that the Union is facing in terms of security, in terms of trade policy, where our competitors grow up, where political change sometimes takes place, which introduces a ton of confrontation in this area... A divided Union or an internally differentiated Union will simply be a weaker partner. I think that no one should care because the European Union may not solve all our problems, but it can solve many of our problems. In particular, those which are extremely cross-border, global in nature, such as security, trade, the common market, the setting of standards. These are matters in which the Union can play a very good role, but on one condition: it will be an entity representing 500 million citizens, not five entities which will represent different groups of citizens to a different extent, because no one will globally matter to such an entity. And that is the fundamental reason for our position to preserve the integrity of the Union. Flexibility of the EU project, which we already have in relation to the article today. 20 treaty, it's not a bad thing. We don't have a problem with that. Flexibility of the EU project is often beneficial and necessary. But with this flexibility you should be careful, because it is very easy to break this structure permanently, and then we will all be weaker. This is not about Central Europe or Warsaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u22	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions. Poland has special interests to secure in connection with Brexit. I think there is no doubt that we must do everything for Poles who live in the UK. As you know, very important was the formal and informal role of the Head of the European Council. Some solutions in connection with Brexit, so to speak, suffered at the level of his meetings with national leaders. I would like to ask the Minister to tell me what his contacts with Polish diplomacy were, whether they were at all, and if they were not, why. That's the first question. Second question. You were talking about Ukraine. With the naked eye, our relationship has become very tense in the last two years, and especially in recent times. I'd like to know what the Ministry is doing, what initiatives they're taking to get out of this deadlock we're in. I would also like to ask if you would be kind enough to comment briefly on this, whether you agree, as co-responsible for Polish foreign policy, with the criticism expressed by Prime Minister Olszewski of the IPN Act and the quite devastating role it has played in our relations with Ukraine. And one last question. As head of the Polish-French Group, I would like to ask you a few words about how you assess the current situation. We recently had a high-level visit, a visit from the president of the French Senate, Mr Larcher. In addition to recalling the good events of our common history, we also had the opportunity to listen to some rather disturbing comments from him. I understand that this is an expression of some concern about Poland and Polish politics. I'd like to know... I would like to hear the Minister's comment on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u24	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u25	I attach great importance to the opinion of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, also to the opinions expressed on the amendment of the IPN Act and, more broadly, his opinion on relations with Ukraine. But I do not want to set a precedent on this occasion, which will allow this debate to be used to address issues which are not related to the work of the Estonian Presidency in the European Union. So let us remain warm, commentary about what we heard from Jan Olszewski. These are opinions that should be treated with the highest seriousness. As far as Brexit is concerned, I will say that our negotiator, in the sense of the European Union, is placed in the European Commission and benefits from the mixed mandate, the mandate of the European Commission and the mandate of the European Council. Poland was one of the key countries in terms of commitment to shaping recommendations for the mandate of the negotiator Michel Barnier at European Council level, and is today one of the key countries in terms of developing new recommendations for the transition period and new relations. And this is how we express our expectations for this process, I would say with success, because the recommendations adopted by the European Council fully meet Polish expectations, also in terms of how to implement the protection of the rights of Polish citizens, although this is not the only topic that we are interested in, I would not want us to reduce Brexit's problem to this important topic. Much more complex, much more controversial solutions are equally important in terms of a fair financial settlement of the United Kingdom in the European Union. This settlement is complicated due to the long-standing membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union and the very complicated formula of the European Union budget. Poland's expectations of recommendations are also fully reflected in the European Council document. We are pleased with this process, we are pleased with how this has been done and at the negotiating table, and in the first version of the agreement itself, which has recently been presented to the Member States. Of course, there is also the role of the President of the European Council itself somewhere, but let us remember that the President of the European Council organises the work of the European Council and that the actors, as far as the European Council is concerned, are prime ministers, heads of government and heads of state. I think this must be remembered, especially in the context of Brexit, because in this case, institutional responsibility is extremely divided. I can also say that we have very good experience in cooperation with the main negotiator of the European Union Michel Barnier, who has been in Poland many times. We have regular meetings. I think it can be said today that it is doing a very good job of working very loyally for all Member States, not just for selected groups. I hope that by the end of these negotiations, in particular at a time when we will be sitting at an even more difficult stage, i.e. until the negotiation stage of new relations with Great Britain, this model of internal cooperation will be preserved within the Union. Everyone's noticed and everybody's often This underlines that, given the rather tense situation in the Union in many different cases, Member States have shaped an unprecedented level of unity and mutual trust. This shows that when business coincides and is carried out in a loyal manner, the Union can act without special disturbances. And Brexit is a very good example of that. This should also be an example for other policies, because if we had applied the principle that governs Brexit, the principle of consensus and loyal cooperation in other areas, perhaps we would not have many of the tensions we have in the European Union. But that's a point that goes beyond the scope of the question. As far as France is concerned, it is similar, i.e. The President of the French Senate was accepted not only in our Senate, but also by the President, by the Prime Minister. We appreciate that the parliamentary aspect of our relationship is intense. These conversations were politically interesting. We agree that some Member States, some politicians from other Member States of the European Union, may have different views on Polish policy. That's all we can offer. But surely one thing can be said. Namely, we regret that this aspect of parliamentary openness does not translate into a frostbite of the work of the Weimar Triangle. France today is the country that is responsible for freezing the work of the Weimar Triangle. This makes it difficult to talk about the far-reaching reform of the European Union, which makes it difficult to reach an agreement in many areas of the European Union. But Warsaw is not the capital that makes this process difficult to any extent. We have unambiguously confirmed by facts, maybe not declarations, but facts The position of France, which for some reason is not interested in European debate throughout the plan, throughout the European Union's plan. There are the capitals of the Member States of the European Union that are interested in narrowing the debate. Warsaw is certainly not one of these capitals.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u26	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u27	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, I'm sorry about the difficult question. As far as I am concerned, the subject of the Estonian Presidency was not a matter of compliance with the rule of law in the countries of the Union. But what's more important here is your declaration. I would even say about the degree of its genius that the divided Union and the weak Union translate not only to the extent of its strength, but above all to the inability to solve many of Europe's vital existential problems. The question, then, is, in this light, how should we understand yesterday's... adoption by the Sejm of a law on the National Judicial Council and the election of new members? After all, this is an object, a bone... more than a bone, a bone of discord not only in relations with the Brussels administration, but also with many countries that signed for preliminary work on launching the procedure under Article 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. This procedure, in my opinion, was categorically blocked by the Sejm yesterday. At least these have been blocked, let's call it propaganda, known as good, warm relations with the European Union and with Mr Tindermans. How does this relate to your claim that the Union is to be strong? And the second question is: how many reparations and financial claims, although, as I say, if the law says so, I have no objection here. Do they affect the unity of the European Union? After all, behind the Polish reparations there are other countries that will surely occur, among others. Estonia, certainly Czechs and other countries, which were after all affected by fascist Germany. How will this translate into European unity?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u28	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u29	I think that European unity can only be built on the basis of equality of states. If we were to build European unity on the basis of some of the resources of one country and another, in this case Poland, in order to limit its own internal competence to shape its internal system, its constitutional tradition, in this case to reform the justice system, it would be a false unity. That's not the kind of unity we're after. This is about unity based on equality and mutual respect for its Treaty-confirmed competences, nothing more. It's one thing with the other that doesn't have such a clear connection. The same applies to other issues that may affect bilateral relations. Unity cannot be built on self-limitation, on such a far-reaching self-limitation that we introduce ourselves with self-censorship related to reflections, not decisions, but reflections on topics that should be discussed freely, or the Sejm or the Senate. I understand that the issue of reparation is at the parliamentary stage today. I think it would be hard to say today. At least I'd be hard to say. That we will seek European unity in such a way that we will reduce the debate in the Polish Parliament, i.e. that we really refuse the Polish parliament the right to discuss anything. The competence of the Sejm and the Senate is a universal competence, it is not limited to anything. So it would be difficult for me to accept the idea of building unity through so far-reaching self-limitation. I think it would be... that it would encourage us to use this model on a larger scale. And I don't think that would be a good way to make Europe one. In addition, my comments on Europe's unity were essentially about preserving the institutional integrity of the Union. This does not have to involve such a great potential for political unity or unity of intent. The point is that the European Union should maintain its budgetary, legal and institutional integrity. I don't know if it's enough or if it's a lot. I think today it's a relatively large amount. But this does not mean that Member States are to give up their own policies at some point in the name of abstract unity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u30	Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Marshals! Minister, my speech was of a working nature, so let me fill it in, because I'm sorry. Your speech was as smooth as our most beautiful river. Vistula. But I would like to point out that the European Union's reservations do not concern freedom of law-making, but the obligation to comply with the Treaty of Lisbon, the institutions. And I add that it is not only that the European Union, the Council of Europe We also joined after the declaration and after our commitment to uphold the rule of law, and especially since it is also set out in our Constitution, the Venice Commission, which you called as a censor and which is constantly working and continues to uphold its position on the National Judicial Council, as well as other European institutions... So we're dealing with something bigger than just a dispute, let's say, a word. I'm asking you to answer this. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u31	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u32	I don't know where to start, because I have the impression that this case has been discussed many times. The fact that the institutions of the European Union, in this case the European Commission, have a structured position, an assessment of the various aspects, very many aspects 'Cause it's not just the KRS. The reform of justice in Poland does not mean that these opinions are binding in any way. So don't be surprised that the Polish state, like other countries in other cases, does not treat it as a binding opinion. We recognise the European Commission's right to judge these reforms in one way or another, if necessary. We understand that we have a different understanding of the concept of the rule of law in this matter, otherwise we interpret this principle under specific conditions. But that difference matters. And what is important here is that we certainly do not argue about the rule of law, the rule of law is as important for Warsaw as it is for Brussels, but under certain circumstances we actually have a difference of opinion as to how to interpret it, how to embody it. And that's a pretty serious difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go. Then you'll be Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions, two general questions, one rather detailed. First, general. It is about December of that year: the European Commission is launching an article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. Yeah, when does it end and this procedure? And please explain to me, first of all, whether one country Of course, this is not about Poland. Can it effectively block sanctions for Poland? Does it have to be decisive in this vote against, or is it enough to hold off? What he just has to do Is this the country? And can you e.g. through procedural wrinkles That is to say, the vote on the matter of two countries at the same time. Is it possible to exclude this country from favor with Poland? That's the first line. The second concerns the future multiannual financial framework. They were not discussed during the Estonian Presidency, but the first meeting at the end of February covered this subject. Is it really being considered in the European Union? And if so, who's going for it? It is to link access to funds that will be sent to individual countries, to the degree, as it is called, to respect the rule of law, whatever it means. And the third question, detailed. You spoke of Ukraine as a stable, reformed, resilient minister. That's very good, I agree, but unfortunately recently Ukraine And that's what conflicts are about. First of all, it is neobendersian when it comes to relations with Poland. Here's the question. This is a question of both the attitude of your department and the government's attitude towards the following problem. Should Ukraine in this shape, with such national heroes, with such a promoted history, enter the European Union? Are we already picking up I hope so; I think that will be the opinion of our rulers That we such a Ukraine, with such a shape of its history and so referring to the neighbour nearest, i.e. Poland, in the Union we simply do not want? We want a democratic Ukraine, not a neo-Bander. [[Question, Mr. Senator. Ask me a question.]] Am I right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u35	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u36	Art. Point 7 (1) of the request for its application has been submitted to the Council of the European Union It is not a sanction procedure. This is an article that allows the Council of the European Union to possibly adopted recommendations for a Member State, in fact on any matter, if it finds grounds for an Article-based recommendation. 2, about a certain catalogue of values, which is mentioned in the Treaty. And maybe he can tell. It's a political position. That there is a clear risk of serious violations of the rule of law. So it is more or less enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. That's all she can do on the basis of the article. The Council of the European Union shall act on point 7 (1). If someone really wanted to use a sanction procedure, they'd have to rely on an article. 7 point 2. There's a completely different procedure here. This proposal should not be addressed to the Council of the European Union but to the European Council, which votes unanimously, but excluding the incriminal state, the country to which the proposal is submitted. Then it is not a Polish matter to be able to influence the course of events. I doubt anyone's gonna take that step. I doubt there's ever been unanimity in the European Council on such a matter. It is certainly not possible to apply such legal tricks, say, to a number of countries, in fact I do not know what to call it in the form of a cumulative submission of several proposals based on the same legal basis, in order to exclude them from voting. This is certainly not a legal option, also confirmed by the European Commission by Vice-President Timmermans, who at one time, at a certain point in the matter, made a public statement on this matter, I believe, avoiding the suspicion that something can be used in the European Union that can at best be called a legal trick. In some ways, the rule of law results from legal certainty and the definition of law. In this respect, the definition of the law is clear. As far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, we have been hearing for months about the different types of conditionality to be included in the multiannual financial framework. We're open to talking about how to build these conditionalities. Some of them are already present in the multiannual financial framework and perhaps need to be considered for reform. Many of them are described in a rather detailed way. The only condition that is not described, which is a purely publicist concept, is that of the rule of law. We ask only two questions: What measure is the rule of law in a Member State? Who is authorized to measure the rule of law in a Member State? If we get an answer to these 2, it seems, quite simple questions, we will move on to the next stage. And I hope that we will finally be able to talk about specific legal institutions, not publicist concepts, sometimes expressed in the language of confrontation, which does not help the agreement on the MFF. As far as Ukraine is concerned, this is the hardest case. On the one hand, it is true that we have a conflict of historical memory, but on the other hand, responsibility dictates not to mix At least not too much. This tension with issues which here and now relate to the security not only of Ukraine, but also of the entire region. And the political art is to carry out this whole process. Because, on the one hand, we are having a tense history dialogue today, and there is no indication that it will suddenly become less tense, and on the other hand, we should ensure that we do not put our hands to further destabilisation of this region. It takes caution. This requires precision in the forum of mutual relations and in the international forum. [[And that's why the IPN bill was passed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u38	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have two more questions. First question. During the Estonian Presidency, were there any pre-budget consultations on the 2021/2027 perspective? Second question, relevant. The Minister has talked about this in part, but I think it would be worth putting a dot over the 'i'. How does Estonia itself stand in the debate that the Minister mentioned, namely the debate on the scope of the reform of the European Union? Is Estonia in the same group of countries as Poland, countries that demand a comprehensive view of this issue, or are they in a group of countries that, as I understand your statement, approach this problem? How is Estonia positioned? Were there any particular activities in this regard initiated during her leadership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u39	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u40	The debate on reform is taking place in the capitals. This is not the subject of the Presidency's work. I think Estonia is one of those countries in the region that are keenly interested in keeping the European Union alive. Any link with Western institutions has a positive impact on the stability and security of this country. As regards the MFF, it can be said that the formal discussion started recently, together with the Commission's initial communication and the preliminary note of the President of the European Council. But this is not about the Presidency. Informal discussions in the Member States, including in Warsaw, and informal ordering activities, preparing for the discussion, of course took place much earlier. Warsaw, I believe, is very well prepared in this respect. For almost two years there has been an inter-ministerial team on the multiannual financial framework. It can be said that we have been preparing for almost two years to present a coherent position on the multiannual financial framework. Individual ministries and MFAs maintain close contact with countries whose budgetary interests may coincide with ours. I think that the debate on the MFF, which is going to be extremely difficult this time because of Brexit and the still unresolved internal problems, will come well prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u41	Thank you, Minister. The question is Professor Kazimierz Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. The Minister used the wording of the European Union's single digital market. In a short time, you said... That sounds nice. But what does that mean in practice? That's the first question. Second question. You spoke to the Minister about the free movement of non-personal digital data. What's the digital data? And how can this affect the development of the European Union and the economy?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u43	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u44	The digital single market is like a layer of the whole Community market, because the whole Community market is beginning to have a digital aspect. This means that we have an urgent need to regulate certain things, sometimes it would seem trivial, such as the flow of goods on the basis of e-commerce or the flow of services. This requires cleaning or consistency of regulation so that such measures are free of excessive barriers. This sometimes requires the development of standards, as in the case of the free movement of data, i.e. the availability of data produced by the digital market for individual market participants. The principle of free movement of data as a system principle is so important that Polish entrepreneurs will be able to build their own value thanks to this principle, because they will enjoy access to data from the whole Community market and not just from the Polish market. It's not personal data, of course. You shouldn't confuse it, and sometimes it's wrong. Personal data is a completely different subject. Sometimes, and this is the third layer of these regulations. This is a question of shaping the regulatory regime so that it is easier to invest in order to develop the infrastructure that is necessary for the development of the digital market. For example, an infrastructure such as 5G infrastructure, which is a prerequisite for developing a very large number of advanced digital technologies, e.g. Autonomization of transport. It is a package of a dozen legal regulations, as I say, sometimes relating to things that are very close to the consumer and are probably much simpler, and sometimes to things much more complicated, with far-reaching financial consequences. In general, the essence of this action is that the Community market should be a single space in terms of digital issues, so that there are no barriers, in particular new barriers, which could hinder the implementation of somewhat long-term agreed freedoms, because today, basically, every aspect of the market contains a digital aspect.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Komarnicki. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, Poland has been one of the countries in which transport companies are developing very dynamically for many years. There's a huge problem with that. I come from Gorzow soil, where there are significant transport companies; I was asked to ask a question. That is, Minister, EU rates for drivers abroad will increase the costs of Polish companies by 1/3. We should be worried because we can't stand the competition. And, Minister, if we don't do something instantly, the companies will fall like flies. I'm just going to give you one example, which is so significant. If the driver exceeds 3 days in the country of destination, the rate will already apply in Germany EUR 8.50 per hour and in France EUR 10 per hour. The owners of the companies took out huge loans to improve and level the machine park and to be competitive for foreign companies. This is a very serious economic problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u47	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u48	I don't think anyone has to explain to the government how important the transport industry is. If we had not felt the importance of this problem, we would not have introduced the sector's interests into the negotiating mandate for posting as one of the key elements. This is one of the key aspects of the assessment of all regulations that are adopted in this area. It is not only a question of rates that are slowly approaching each other, because in Poland the rates... [[That's one example.]] ...they grow because of overall wealth or the growth of the economy as a whole. There is no less significant problem with other types of restrictions, and there is no less significant problem with the impreciseness of the law. This is the reason why we are critical of what the European Parliament has introduced into these regulations regarding the application of sectoral or regional collective agreements. These are bad solutions, they are true, but we have a clear majority in the European Union, which is interested in interpreting the principle of building a European social model or protecting employment in transport. Poland is the main country in terms of organising an ambitious resistance of Member States to this type of regulation for transport. It remains to be hoped that the other countries that are expressing a similar position today will not withdraw from this position at an early stage of negotiations. I am convinced that today, those 14 countries that work with us on this issue can have a significant impact on transport regulations if there is a vote in the Transport Council. The point is just to get a derogation. International transport is by nature an international activity, so applying the rules of posting as extra rules is an absurd approach. We understand that there are special circumstances in the case of the provision of many other services which in their nature do not have cross-borderity, but international transport is by nature cross-border. International transport cannot be carried out within the borders of a Member State as if by substance. This 3-day exemption is an exemption which today is pushed by the European Commission and countries interested in a stricter regime. Here Polish expectations are much higher. This is not only due to the geographical location, but also to the belief that all obstacles to competition in the international transport market should be limited. It remains to be hoped that those countries which are declaring today, like Poland, their opposition to these regulations, will be politically strong enough to sustain their resistance to the right moment of negotiation. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, can I just ask you a question? Because it's important to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u50	Minister, could you name the countries behind us today?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u51	I mean. I don't know how to interpret the concept of standing behind someone's wall... [[Which will be with us until the end, Minister.]] I'm not so sure. I was just trying to suggest that I have some doubts about whether all these countries have such ambitious expectations. Polish expectations in this matter go very far. We want ambitious derogations, serious derogations, fundamental derogations. I'm not sure. 'Cause I can't be responsible for other countries' policies. If they will be able to hold such a firm position for a very long time. [[But the Minister certainly has a dialogue with these countries. Hence my question.]] As for the list of these countries, it is quite obvious. These are the Baltic countries, the Visegrad Group countries, Croatia, Slovenia, Malta, Ireland, Portugal, Spain. They are all countries which have expressed their concerns to varying degrees about transport in particular. But let me stress: to varying degrees. And is this coalition today enough to make a significant mark... i.e. to make a major change to transport regulation? Will she be willing to enforce her rights? Well, that's a question for the governments of these countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u52	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u53	Minister, if I remember correctly, we are to prepare a Polish position by the end of March in connection with proceedings against the Polish Government with the article. 7. Is this position ready? Could you possibly outline it here? If not, I would like to answer such a question: is yesterday's vote on the KRS a response from the Polish government to the call for compliance with the rule of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u54	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u55	Yesterday's position of the Sejm stems from the enforcement of the sovereign right of the Polish Parliament to carry out reforms in an area which falls within the competence of the internal Member State. I think there's so much to be said about such a vote. With regard to the European Commission's proposal to apply Article. 7, Poland will present its position on this matter to the addressees of this proposal, namely to the Member States gathered in the Council of the European Union, in due time. With regard to recommendations, the fourth recommendations which have been submitted by the European Commission are due to expire on 20 March. Poland will respond to these recommendations within the deadline.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u57	A little bit following this lead, Minister, I would like to say that personal changes have taken place in the Council of Ministers in order to show Europe a slightly different face of the PiS government. At the same time, I have not met with any of the positions of this government which would indeed and constructively refer to the positions of both the European Commission and the 2 positions of the European Parliament. As we are talking about the second half of last year, I will refer to the resolution of the European Parliament of 15 November 2017, which describes all this. I would like to point out: everything that we have talked about in this House in the last two years, i.e. all violations of the Constitution in order to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal, all violations of the Constitution in order to subjugate the third power, the judicial authority, the executive authority and finally various violations of the laws in force in Poland, e.g. Assembly rights. Do you? and if so, when The Polish government intends, so to speak, to respond constructively, to point out, constructively, and to engage in dialogue, not a fictional conversation with the European institutions, in order to fulfil what is enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty as a prerequisite for the presence of a Member State in the European Union, namely the rule of law, the principle of democracy, the principle of respect for the rights of minorities, including political minorities, the principle of respect for human rights and finally the principle of respect for civil liberties?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u58	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u59	I believe that every time changes in government are made to show something to Poles who choose this government through the Sejm and Senate, not to show anything to Europe. It's a publicist remark, so I'm a publicist. But I think it's pretty important that we don't get out of the wrong idea, because that could lead us to the wrong conclusion. So much for government change. The European Parliament's resolution certainly does not have the status of a treaty. It certainly has nothing to do with the activities of the Estonian Presidency. So I think there's no reason for her to comment on my part. I think you know how I feel about this resolution without any comments. And as I understand it, the senator is pleased with the wording of this resolution and would like to vote for it if he could. [[I don't understand whether it's a question or a statement.]] [[Question.]] [[A statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u60	This is because I am asking questions, and you are in the role of the Minister, I would like to express my hope that the Minister, who is as long as I am in the European Parliament, would, of course, vote in favour of this resolution because it reflects the spirit of the community in which Poland is located.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u61	No, I would never vote in favour of a similar resolution, both in relation to Poland and in relation to any other Member State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u62	Am I to understand, then, that the Minister is in favour of breaking the constitution in the Member States, for breaking the rule of law in the Member States, for failing to comply with certain freedoms and civil rights arrangements, and also for subjecting the judiciary to executive authority and paralyzing the Constitutional Tribunal in other countries outside Poland? [[In Poland, it's treason...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u63	The question is purely hypothetical. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u64	This is, to put it bluntly, a misconception. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. Mr. Marshal, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u66	I'm sorry, I listened so much, with disbelief, during the Minister's reply, that... I have two questions, Minister. When we discussed the IPN Act, Mr.Dziedziczak was here. I wanted to ask him that question, but it was impossible for me to do so because the PiS asked me to stop asking questions. So I'd like to ask you this question. Was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in favour of amending this law or against it? Did he have any conclusions and reservations? And that's the first question. Second question: what about the Foreign Service Act? Such a bill was prepared, it seems, already at the government level. After the minister's change, you can't hear anything about this bill. Or am I wrong? Is this bill up to date or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u67	I would very much like to go further into the discussion about the Foreign Service Act, the IPN Act. I think that the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this matter is publicly known, the comments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are publicly known and can be read. But I really wouldn't want to create a precedent that would establish the practice that the discussion, for example. 6 months of work during the Estonian Presidency turns into a discussion about everything. Because that way we wouldn't be out of here for a week. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u68	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u69	I, of course, don't want to sit here for a week, just like the Minister. Minister, I am asking you this question now because the Senate is meeting with you in connection with this report. Minister Dziedziczak supported the bill in his speech, and a week later Minister Waszczykowski stated that there were criticisms of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's why I'm asking you. Who am I supposed to believe?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u70	Thank you. Do you have anything to add, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u71	It's hard for me to add anything beyond what I've already said. The purpose of this item should not be to discuss all possible matters that are connected with the Foreign Affairs Office. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is quite an active resort, which actually speaks in very many areas, but this does not entitle us to put this type of item on the agenda, completely unrelated... [[I see. Please respond in writing.]] The comments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the original bill are publicly available on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre, so I do not understand your doubts. [[I repeat, please respond in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u72	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Will the Minister reply in writing? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes, of course.]] Good. Thank you very much. There are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister. I inform you that the Minister has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u73	Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with general business to move on to a detailed, but very important case. Ideology of sending Polish interest to the government of PiS, Minister. The interest of Poland is to support the communality of the European Union, i.e. to support the European Commission, in which the policy of the Union is shaped in most cases. In the meantime, I hear the importance of national policies emphasized. The PiS government says no. He says that the Community part of the European Union should not be strengthened and that the European Commission should not be strengthened. In this way, the government strengthens the role of the largest countries in the European Union, which it criticises. This is an inconsistent policy. So... If not the European Commission and not the additional competences of the European Commission, then what? Should national policies be as important as possible? It is known that Germany is the strongest country among these countries. Next thing you know, after Britain leaves, there's France. On the one hand, you are criticizing the role of Germany and on the other hand you are opposed to strengthening the communityship of the European Union. That's my general remark. Now the details. Work has already begun in the European Parliament on the budget, on the new budget of the European Union. It is known that with the budget, with this amount, with the level of budget that was previously, there will be problems. In the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament there are 2 Members... [[Polish.]] ...Polish from the Civic Platform, Mr Olbrycht and Mr Lewandowski. [[They're from the PiS, too.]] There is no attempt to make contact with the government, there are no proposals, there is no situation that should be, there is no government cooperation. Regardless of the fact that they are Members of the opposition, despite the slop you are pouring out on them in connection with the resolution... [[Don't insult us, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm not insulting, but... Okay, okay, and when you say they vote against Poland, what it is. You're insulting us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In this case, there are no... These are Polish Members who want to... [[They're voting against it.]] So what? That's how they vote... [[That's what they do wrong.]] You, you are acting against Poland... [[Quiet, please.]] ...so don't be surprised that they vote... [[Voice from the room: Against your own...]] ...against power, against what PiS is doing here in Poland. Don't be surprised. [[Yeah, yeah...]] But I'm getting back to the subject. They're signaling there's no government cooperation... [[Voice from the room: For the sake of Poland.]] For the sake of Poland, this cooperation must be, because it is in our interest to obtain the best budget in the next edition. That's why I'm paying attention. I understand that since they are in the European Commission, maybe the point is that when we receive a much worse budget, they will be liable: yes, they are anti-Polish, against Poland, etc. Then you can set them up in this narrative. But this is a mistake. If that's the idea, it's a serious mistake. And last but not least, the so-called case. social dumping. I remember the moment when social dumping began to be mentioned, i.e. the concept of dumping was extended to a completely different sphere. It's not a question of steel, it's not an issue of aluminum, it's not a question of coal, it's a question of lowering export prices. They started talking about social dumping. You can also talk about cultural dumping, you can come up with other concepts, for example. tax dumping, etc. This thesis on social dumping and the position of those who, as a result, hit our international transport companies, our companies, whose employees work on the German or French markets, support trade unions. Is the Ministry trying to talk to them? It weakens our position. The Union supports the idea of social dumping without looking at the consequences of employment, employment, job losses in exporting companies and transport companies. I would like to draw attention to this and call for discussions to be held so that there is no double vote in discussions with the countries of the European Union and in discussions with the European Commission. And such a bivocative voice, with the participation of a very important, important party, i.e. a social partner, a trade union partner, I hear it, and I have heard it for many years. Finally, Minister, I would like to thank you for this report and for this extensive written report that I have read. Of course, it avoids certain controversial matters, but I understand you, you don't have to enter into controversy. Except my question was about controversial matters, and you didn't want to answer them. But extremely important for Poland's foreign policy and international policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u74	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking Minister Szymanski for very good information for the Sejm... [[The Senate.]] ...for the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2017, during the Presidency of Estonia, the Council of the European Union. The Minister with his answers... In general, the course of this debate, a series of questions that we have just had, also showed the scope of the issue which should be of particular interest to us as Polish parliamentarians. It is no secret that in the second half of 2017 there was a certain escalation of tensions between Brussels and Warsaw and an attempt by the European Commission to initiate the procedure with Article. 7, which from the beginning was doomed to failure when it comes to bringing the entire cycle to an end. And it is good that at the moment the Union, Brussels, is trying to find a political solution to this situation. This is also thanks to the Polish government and Prime Minister Morawiecki, who, in fact, already this year, but in January, through a series of meetings led to an indication of a quite prudent way, I think, of the solution to the problem of this tension. But this long six months 2017 is also a problem of untapped opportunities for the European Union to undertake some deeper reform, which would cause that any crises that have plagued the European Union, and which are very few, could be successfully resolved over the coming years. What are the crises? Above all, the demographic crisis, the value crisis, the migratory crisis that may be most discussed, the crisis of the EU institutions, the crisis related to the democratic deficit in the European Union. I only mention some, because of course there are more of these crises. I am ignoring the area of the economy in general, and in the area of the economy, however, the issue is the loss of some competitiveness of European products on the global market for a very simple reason: because of the high energy prices resulting from the policies that the Union is leading and the high labour costs that make European goods on the global market less and less likely to play a role. And here it is worth noting that the migration crisis, triggered in 2015 by the irresponsible and thoughtless declaration by Chancellor Angela Merkel, has actually led to very important problems, the far-reaching consequences of which are difficult to predict at the moment. But let's focus on the political impact. Well, it's no secret that Chancellor Merkel herself is guilty of such a weak outcome of the CDU-CSU coalition in the September elections in Germany and the rise of anti-immigrant sentiments. They are expressed by the alternative party for Germany, which in life would not have achieved such a result if it had not been for Angela Merkel's ill-considered decision. It can therefore be said that the success of the Alternative for Germany is indirectly due to Mrs Merkel. We see the results of the SPD. We already know that there will be a so-called German uprising. The great coalition, but Mrs Merkel's personal position is unfortunately weakened, and this, from the point of view of the interests of Poland, the interests of Germany, but also the interests of the Union, is not a good situation. As a positive forecast, the coalition declaration states that Germany treats France and Poland as... well, almost equal partners. This is a political withdrawal from the concept of building a hard core of the Union with the help of this French-German motor. Well, Mr Macron's proposals are in the vacuum. Moreover, the situation in France is, in a sense, a consequence of this crisis. Those social tensions that are there are also a consequence of this unthinkable immigration policy. The results of the elections held this Sunday in Italy also indicate that ill-considered decisions cause such reactions rather than other reactions. How will this end for the European Union? We are not futurists, we are not here at a futuristic seminar, but it certainly increases the number of problems facing the Union. And in this context, it is worth noting what Minister Szymański emphasized. The Polish government believes that a deep reform of the European Union is necessary. She's objectively needed. As the Minister mentioned, the resistance of some states or, say, a selective approach to this problem presented by some countries causes that there is no political impulse, there is no thought of solutions going in this direction. Ba, even Brexit, who in some sense was also a derivative of the part, I am not saying that in the whole of Brussels' arrogance towards the Member States, did not cause anyone to think so positively about what to do next. This is a dangerous situation, especially from the point of view of the increasing political tension in Europe. I am thinking here particularly about Eastern policy, I am thinking about the ongoing war in Ukraine, although unfortunately there are other hot spots in Europe. All this shows that the future that is ahead of us really requires great vigilance. These discussions that have also started, the discussions on the budgetary perspective for 2021 and 2027, are to some extent an expression of these internal problems. I would also like to point out that there was an attempt here to present such a view, that there is light opposition that cares for the welfare of Poland, and there is a bad government that harms Poland. I would like to remind you as a historian that at the end of the 18th century there was a market confederation. I don't know if the High House knows what it's for. It was established not against Poland, but in the name of defending the freedom of nobles, allegedly threatened by the Constitution on 3 May. These people were genuinely paying attention to most of the... I am not saying that there were also some mean people in Targowica, but in a large part this confederation consisted of people who sincerely believed that this way they worked for the good of Poland. And it was the drama of Polish politics. This is also one of the elements of the end of the I Republic of Poland, because these events from the 1990s were a direct impulse to it, they catalyzed this process. So it's worth remembering. And that's why smart countries... And here I thank Minister Szymanski for this declaration that if he were a MEP, he would not raise his hand, he would not support such a declaration, for which part of the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform raised their hand, not only if the case was about the situation in Poland, but also if it was about any country. This is what Winston Churchill was talking about: we don't criticize our own country outside. But within the country, we can even... [[Discuss.]] ...discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am directing my words to you, Minister, but I must start with a brief polemic with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, who, if I understand it, asked me to say a certain sentence and this sentence was to some extent strategic: the interest of Poland is to support the European Commission. I understand the meaning of this sentence, of course, but I would like to say not only that the interest of Poland is to support Poland, but not the European Commission because it is obvious, but also that the report by Minister Szymański reflects the fundamental difference between Poland's sovereign policy and the policy to be linked to the entire level of energy expenditure not for the sake of Poland's sovereignty, but for some kind of existence. Very important, though, but beyond the horizon of sovereignty. It should be recalled that the European Union is an insanely important space which is very supportive of the activities and functioning of the national states. However, the structures of the European Union, including the European Council, the Commission, Parliament, are only justified and justified if, through their existence, they actually support the possibility of articulating the interests of individual countries and nations. This is the definition of the European Union, to which, I understand, the policy of the Government of Law and Justice returns. And this is not an attempt to undermine the sense of the European Union, but the opposite. It is an attempt to show that we are determined to see in today's state things the need for the European Union and the need to serve what this EU space causes by its existence, provided that it actually causes it. And why such a definition of the European Union Is it necessary and necessary today to build a space in which national-state interests can be realised? Because you have to understand the signs of time. What may have been defined differently in the 1990s... Today we see that this should be defined from the point of view of the reality in which we are currently operating. The migration crisis has shown very clearly, but not only the crisis, that the dominating of today's European community is rebirth. You can call it that, or maybe it's always been that way, but we just couldn't really see it. The very clear patriotisms of national-state societies that operate in these countries. This can be seen after democratic elections in these countries. These democratic elections that have recently taken place in European countries... Senator Jackowski called here the last elections in Italy. You can call them in Germany too. Austria can also be invoked, Poland can be invoked, Hungary can be invoked. So it turns out that this is neither pathology nor Europe's margin, but the main trend of European elections and decisions. Therefore, our Polish rations, which are articleated, do not actually go across the line in the sense that we are not part of an idea stream, which today is very important and articulated by many nations and societies, often by the majority, and not only by significant minorities. Although significant minorities are worth considering, because in the next election they can become the majority. So today's shape of the European Union is undoubtedly different from that of the 1990s and the early 2000s preserved In the wrong sense of the word In your mind. It is important to develop and see what is happening in the world. I hope the government of law and justice understood that. Very briefly about what is this strategy of Polish foreign policy for today, except that we defend Polish interests and articulate that we are pleased that there is a European Union, because it is a very important space for dialogue and we do not intend to give up this space. Well, I think the most important thing is And that's why, Minister, that's what I asked you. This concept, which today seems to be to some extent an opportunity for Poland. On the one hand, It's very clear. What's there to hide? The break-up of German politics, which at one stage of World War I was called the building of Mitteleuropy, the Brest Room of 1918 in the new formula for 2015, 2016 or 2017. We just don't want to have Mitteleuropy end of World War I, because it's not in Polish business. So it's hard to agree to that. In exchange for this is the introduction by us of the postulate of the Intermarine, but the Intermarine modernized In view of today's conditions, not those in which these doctrines were created, in the years of World War II or before World War II. Of course, as a historian, I know the doctrines and Jerzy Braun, and the national camp of Adam Doboszyński, and the camp of Pisudczyk, the federation concept. Today, all these trends are extremely important to us from the point of view of understanding international policy, but they must also be embedded in modern times. And this modern day is that... taking this role from the hands of Germany to the Intermarine is basically what raises national states to a category of equals. God forbid we get caught up in the once soviet method of thinking that we are definitely more important. This will of course not lead us to the idea of the Intermarine as equal partners, seeing bilaterally a lot of relationships with each other, which are more important than any external patronage, in this case the patronage of Germany. Our second very clear interest is, of course, to take over, again from German hands to a large extent, the development of the Eastern Partnership policy. This is a reference to the earlier doctrine of Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, then Józef Piłsudski, then Lech Kaczyński. This is the doctrine which today should be promoted internationally by Poland. And finally the third doctrinal rule for today, which does not mean that for tomorrow, that next week, that forever, because all these are situational issues, is of course looking for an alliance with the United States. I'm not going into this anymore because it's obvious at this stage of our relationship. It's a separate subject, and I don't have much time. The last point I want to raise is that in order for this Polish project on strategic objectives to be feasible, there is no doubt that there is no doubt about it for me. The rule of law and justice, even to be bored, on the international stage, should speak of the fact that the only basis for dialogue in Europe is to rely on Christian values and culture, no other. And this article, which unfortunately I do not hear very often, is, in my opinion, a condition for obtaining those who today in Europe in national-state structures either are by far the majority as a result of democratic elections, or are such a strong minority that it is worth investing in them, speaking our common language, and creating this structure not only for the memory of Christian culture, but also for the structure of dialogue and allies in Europe who agree with us. Yes, Europe should be Christian and Buttilione, that I will appeal to a particular example of the past, really has the right to be European Commissioner in Europe today. No more Europeans being excluded just because they are Christians. This should be covered by Polish foreign policy, so that it is Polish and at the same time European. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u78	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about European policy as part of Polish foreign policy in a lot You can say that and you have to notice it's a difficult time. This is because of what has been happening for a long time now, when we look at many events that have echoed widely, and which have also affected our international position, a little bit from a distance, it is seen as a fundamental issue. Namely, we pay too little attention to speaking honestly, discussing and defining the Polish state's right, but we use foreign policy too easily to try for ad hoc political purposes to get domestic applause, regardless of the international consequences or not to realize the consequences. Let's take a look at some aspects that have been discussed here. Immigration policy. He's elevated to the rank of state fear. ♪ There's an identification with them ♪ A large part of the population is involved in this process of public media and the reluctance to immigrants in Poland is growing twice. Of course, it is possible to raise quite a bit of political capital against what was agreed within the European Union and what, as Prime Minister Szydło said at the outset, was to be implemented. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong from the point of view of the Polish interest not only because of the opposition to earlier decisions, but because of the fact that we are losing this in the European Union. We like a jam canyon will need guests to work in the coming years, because there is no one to work in many areas, no employees. How will we gain them in such an atmosphere? Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish state's right is both in order to build in dialogue, in appropriate proportions, a coherent system of response to immigration threats, and in order to encourage us to take these guys to work here, rather than to make them afraid to get hit by a mouth on a Warsaw bus. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let's take a look at Ukraine's policies... [[This is your propaganda.]] [[Voice from the room: This is the mob.]] Let's look at the policy towards Ukraine. Is it in our interest to raise from our initiative, above all, what divides, what divides, what annoys, or, above all, what connects, what is common, what is good? It's not about forgetting that, it's about the accents, it's about the proportions. And it's not just a matter of fighting for the truth. The truth must be protected, yes, but our right state, in total the Minister has correctly defined it here, is to strengthen Ukraine in its efforts to the European Union. It must be made clear: relations with Ukraine in recent decades have never been as bad as they are now. And this is not only the result of what is happening in Ukraine, but also the result of what we are doing, for example in the IPN Act. The issue of the rule of law is, of course, a matter of whose rights and for whom the rule of law. Because what does the Union claim, if not the rights of Poles to an impartial court? It is our rights that the Union urges within the European family. It is difficult for Poles not to be in favour of citizens' rights being fully respected in Poland. That's it. [[Applause]] And saying that somebody here is committing some kind of treason when they're begging where they can, for the rights of Poles, for our rights, for an impartial court... I am in favour of the reform of the judiciary, but not the one that has delayed the investigation of cases by 20% in two years. I'm all for speeding it up, that's what the Poles are waiting for. But there haven't been any such proposals so far. And while I'm at it, I'm going back to this question, which, with some subtext, I've asked the Minister today. In fact, the answer to the European Commission, which is due to come to 20 March, was made yesterday in the Sejm, clear, clear and unambiguous: we do not care about your reservations, we implement our plan without looking at what the international bodies say, not only in Europe but also in the United States; it does not matter, and once again, contrary to the Constitution, we will choose our own way, we will politicise the judicial council, etc., etc. This is intended, perhaps, to achieve internal political goals, but it is an action and short-sighted, and contrary to the interests of Poles and the Polish reason of the state. Therefore, the result is that Poland's position is low and is constantly reduced as a result of such a policy. We are so getting off our knees that we must now ask everyone for forgiveness and support. That's the result. That is why I will repeat what I once said from this speaker that Polish foreign policy is not looking for enemies, winning who you can, blaming everything that is wrong, only this is looking for friends. The Minister has often said here that it is, however... that the European Union is a place where we are trying to take good care of our interests and that we can take better care of some of our interests together. So if that's the case, we need allies, we need friends, because everyone there wants to take care of their own interests, and we are alienating each other from each other with irresponsible, incompetent actions. I do not refer this to the Minister because I value his powers and judge them highly. I think his situation is rather difficult. And that is why today this is Polish foreign policy, that we put out where we can, fires, instead of being the creator of this policy. This is terrible. This needs to be changed quickly. [[Mr. Senator...]] It can be changed if we want to reverse this trend. Before we submit foreign policy to national interests, let us first consider what is our reason for the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u80	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to say a few general things, but Senator Zarin's speech forces me to answer a certain question. Senator Żaryn, with his knowledge, brought us a dozen politicians and several political concepts. I'm not sure, but all these political concepts and all these politicians were born about 100 and 120 years ago. It seems to me that no concept or politician of the world's format or Polish format was mentioned here, which would be... [[Kaczyński was born 68 years ago.]] And now using these matrices and ideas over a hundred years ago... There were horrendously aggressive Germans, divided to death and life after several more conflicts with France and England, there were Communist Soviets... and trying to solve our problems with these ideas where we have the European Union, where we have friendship, despite the terrible things that the French and Germans did to each other... Using these matrices and the ideas that have led to this... Because the misunderstanding then maybe by some politicians the Polish situation led to the biggest or one of the biggest catastrophes in the history of our homeland, i.e. murdering 6 million Poles and becoming a communist slave. So the use of these matrices is an unreadable foreign policy programme for me. And what do we have today? The Minister said the Weimar Triangle is frozen. Is this an achievement, or is it a defeat? And the question is, is talking about France being the brake here, talking about cause or effect? 'Cause I think that's talking about the effect, and the reason I know that the Minister understands it. It's a little somewhere else. Is the primacy of historical accounting for our national interest in the international arena something that is the success of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or is it its failure? To me, it's a disaster. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire diplomatic apparatus, which has been demolished for the last two years. It's just the surrender of this department before internal affairs. You have emphasized the Minister who, too, personally, as Senator Augustine just said, I have very much respect for all my activities, for my knowledge... But I didn't hear the answer to one of the most important dilemmas we have. 'Cause on the one hand, you said You're right about that. I'd like to know, on the other hand, what, besides the worst relations with the countries that want to create this nucleus at the moment... well, except for the fact that it happened to Brexit... Of course, the Ministry is not responsible for this, but we were aware of the alliance with England and you spoke about it. So, none of you predicted that Brexit would happen and that betting on the British against the Germans and the French would be a disaster? You didn't understand who you had to be with here, and you got involved with the country that came out of the European Union. It's a success. Or failure? So I would like to know, to hear what we have the idea of either being in this core of the Union, or to keep something that threatens the fundamental interests of Poland. All of this, in my opinion, shows again. I said The collapse of our foreign policy is a good proof of the departure of Minister Waszczykowski. Because he left because that policy was good? Oh, no. Most of you thought she was a mess. And no one breaks up with the minister if he's a good minister. Now it's a non-European accent. One of the senators, as well as Senator Żaryn, said here that in that case we must rely on the United States. Well, congratulations, because it seems to me that Senator Żaryn was one of the most defending laws on IPN here, which, to put it mildly, did not serve Polish-American relations. And, Minister, what do I miss? [[She didn't deepen it.]] [[She didn't.]] I very much miss the fact that a man who understands all the complexity of the international situation and at the same time has the political power to speak hard about various internal ideas that compromise us on the international stage is at the head of the Foreign Ministry. There is no such man. And it can't be that the perception of the world at the historical and local level, in all the complexity of this world, is subordinated... that this perception is stronger than the ministry, which is supposed to care and understand more than local politicians. That, I'll say again, I'm missing it. I expect that eventually this will happen and people who understand the complexity of the European Union and that we are no longer living in the world, I hope Just like we haven't lived so far in the last few decades. The disputes between European countries, only we live in a global world to fight a lot of larger individuals, sometimes continents, and sometimes completely transcontinental matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u82	Thank you. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to refer to two things. One relates to social dumping and the other to the optimisation of the cohesion budget for the following years. The European Union is a certain idea, a certain space, where the idea is that there is an arrangement: a winner. And for this reason, and not just for geopolitical reasons alone, the European Union is also a viable space for Poland. But it is worth noting that there are a lot of fights within the European Union, and every fight is a zero-sum fight. Let's say, in a nutshell: Polish coal and Danish windmills. It seems to me that the dispute about posted workers and so-called. Social dumping is also such a problem. The fact that, in this particular case, the opinion of the government is not identical to the opinion of the trade unions, including the trade union "Solidarity" stems from the fact that each time the government party should seek a balance between the interests of employees and the interests of employers. Undoubtedly, trade unions in Poland are interested in raising labour costs and in social services, and in the salary itself. However, here, in addition to finding this balance with employers, there is still a question of certain principles of the European Union, as we understand them, and one such principle is the free movement of services. In this case, I have the impression that French policy is interfering with freedom. If we are talking about the free market, some French measures should be read as protectionist, which I think we will agree on. And here sometimes there are such voices that if the government is close to the solidarity, it must be close in every case. No, the world is more complex and the government has to balance things. The second element is an attempt to push more or less money into the European Union's view of whether we can get more or less money out for the next period. I would say that when it comes to money from the European Union for Poland, we are dealing with something like this... There are two elements here. The first element is indeed linked to cohesion and cohesion, i.e. in the case of poorer countries it is to be catching up, catching up with richer countries. And this is a certain element that also stems from the thinking of the winner. Because if we are thinking about greater integration of the European Union in the future, it cannot be too much of a gap between very rich Luxembourg and Bulgaria. This system will fall apart at some point if there's such a big crack, so it's in everyone's long-term interest to even up those odds. But there is also the second point, namely that this money is used to reduce what is called market asymmetry. Our entry into the European Union meant letting many stronger players into the supermarket network, Polish banks, banking system, etc. And for this reason, among others. We are talking about the fact that we have very good parameters of Polish export, but the structure of this export is not the best for us. Even Piketty talks about the dependence of Visegrad countries as semi-colonial countries in relation to the centre of the European Union. Working in the Commission of the European Union, I feel that the money we are getting is only one element. And I'd ask you not to see the trees, just to try to look at the whole forest. The regulations that the European Union formulates are sometimes beneficial for Poland, but I think they are more likely for us... Well, maybe not, I don't want to judge here. They're also often unfavorable. And sometimes it would be worth focusing on the fact that some directive would be more beneficial to Poland than to argue for an additional billion of cohesion money. That's what I'm talking about. The game takes place on a very large number of fields: asymmetry of markets, i.e. letting those who earn in Poland, often creating jobs here, of course. I don't deny it. Through regulations that may restrict our ability to compete with the European Union. Another element, also important, is that if possible Try to win as much cohesion money as possible for Poland or agricultural policy. But you have to look holistically and not get pushed into thinking only about the success of the zero-one money at the next time or not... Especially since, of course, it is difficult to talk about the same money after the Brexit phenomenon, because the UK was a fairly large payer. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wrote down seven points, so that if I talked about everyone for about one and a half minutes, I should be able to fit in in time, assuming a certain tolerance of your marshal. I'll start with the Estonian Presidency. Namely, I think This is actually the topic of our debate today. The Estonian Presidency was very successful, conducted very well and consistently. Estonia has achieved points that were important to it, among others. the issue of digitalisation, in which it actually is in Europe and has a commissioner... She also stressed her competence in this area. I would also like to say that very beautifully at various conferences and meetings, among others. At COSAC, you were represented by the President of Estonia, who is not a celebrity. From this you can take an example It is a competent, ordinary, normal person. If it is in the panel, it is not the first speaker in this panel. It's something you can make a pattern out of. I am now moving on to our foreign policy, which we are mainly discussing today. Our foreign policy is now archaic and yet very badly implemented. We had an example of this in the Senate when discussing the IPN Act, when actually the extent of the conflict was not yet fully known, all the more so as the opposition talked about it. Just so you didn't think about it, and by chance not to accept the opposition's proposal, you went on, entering a very important conflict, and then it just got worse. Actually, there's been a fire extinguisher with gasoline. And that's what it looks like right now. The European Union is verbally supported in this policy, but it is practically a policy of discouragement. The result is that instead of playing an active role, to which the way was open to us, especially with Britain leaving the Union, we are actually in a corner, on the margins of the Union, and we cannot play this active role. And what we emphasize, and what we want to carry out, is actually marginalized. We stress, for example, probably rightly, the Christian roots of Europe and present them as, say, an element of cohesion that has been present since the beginning of the Union, even when establishing the Union. Yet these Christian roots that we could be proud of And it might be worth emphasising. They are properly used exclusively, i.e. to eliminate, or at least marginalise the rights of others. You shouldn't do that, you can't defend it. In addition, you can hear here this false note, which is unacceptable. Well, if Christians are treated the same way in the Middle East, in some African countries, in some Indian states, against which we have protested, then we raise a large amount. And that's how exclusive it is to treat your roots and your religion in your territory. That's what we're gonna do. You can't do that. Next: our neighbourhood policy with regard to the Federal Republic of Germany, which is our main trading partner, is very unsuccessful. I understand that some people like it, but it doesn't actually make much sense, and in the long run, it's just gonna be a loss. It must be taken into account that our neighbors, as well as us... We are a larger country and we have as if more freedom, more economic opportunities, more importance, more population, but for most of our neighbours who are not big countries, Germany is a reference country in many respects. And they nod us out of politeness, because they also conduct business with us and pass through our country, going anywhere to the West, but do not take this policy seriously. We are not the leading country here, even despite the Visegrad Group and the intention to create the Intermarriage. Of course, certain projects that are beneficial to everyone can be carried out, but political realities must be taken into account and that we are actually acting at our own harm by promoting in the internal market such slogans that are actually impossible to implement. This is all gonna pay off in the long run. Our main problem is how to get out of the time of mistakes. And lately, mistakes happen to us a lot. However, without retreating from them in the internal market. This is a Gordian knot, unsolvable. And that's what gets us in trouble because you can make mistakes, but you have to be able to get out of them. Then both dignity and maneuverability are preserved. In my opinion, politics is on top of all of this, and she's kind of embarrassed. These ties are, in my opinion, imposed by the head of the governing party and they bind both the former foreign minister and the current secretary of state whom we are hosting in this Chamber. All of this together makes us actually get into a dead end. Despite the fact that the important elements of this policy should be changed in relation to both Ukraine and the European Union, as well as how to make these sometimes valid slogans that we raise more flexible, we take it so that who knows if we will get out of it at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u86	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I'll be brief, 'cause I'm sorry about the ten minutes, there's nothing to talk about. There is no foreign policy, just a hopeless, dramatic situation. Talking about the Visegrad Group and 65 million citizens, and of these Poles 40 million, is based on the so-called. Weaker. The loss of the Weimar Triangle is unimaginable, but everyone's already talked about it. I'd just like to refer to the words of Senator Zarin, who died here because I have a quote, the words of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, speaking in an interview with Philip Memches of the 2004 Frontdy No. 34 concerning the roots of Christian Europe, with which I partially agree, but let us listen. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński said: "I have recently come across people who have imagined that they will do the opposite of this federal, highly integrated Europe." An empire built on right-wing and Christian foundations. Firstly, it has not yet worked, and secondly, even if it did, I would also be against Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u88	Thank you. Mr. Senator Borowski. [[Why are you applauding? For saying that?]] [[He wasn't president at the time, he was just...]] [[We're going to realize...]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, holy words.]] Calm down, please. [[Voice from the hall: Fedor has begun.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not gonna praise the Minister anymore, because I'm gonna praise him. I once praised him, once, and that's enough, and I said I didn't want to cause him any trouble. But unfortunately, Minister, the case is that you use your undoubted knowledge, intelligence and rhetorical abilities to defend a bad foreign policy. That's the problem. And today, don't be surprised that we in these speeches are not talking about digital Europe, Estonian leadership, leadership, inclusive Europe, etc., because there are other topics that prevail, little on these topics depends to a degree on whether or not this Europe will achieve its objectives. That's why they really strayed. We are towards those issues which relate to relations between Poland and the European Commission, between Poland and the European Parliament, also between Poland and Ukraine, although Ukraine is not a member of the European Union. And you, Minister, answering these questions, trying, of course, to relieve the exchange... However, in a few places, you might say, the stitches are loose. You say that you would not vote in favour of any resolution that would criticise the conduct of the authorities of another European Union country, not only in favour of Poland, but also in favour of another country, in principle. Well, the question is what this European Union is after all. What's this? Is it just the common market, or is it more? Let us, however, recall the conditions for Poland and other countries that have joined the European Union in recent years, in 2004. These conditions were clearly defined: it must be a law-abiding country, it must be a country in which there is a threefold division of power, in which there is a modern constitution, it is respected and contains various safeguards and mechanisms which are not intended to lead this country to change into an oligarchy, a semi-dictatorship or a democracy. It was obvious that we wouldn't have been accepted without it. And the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries would not be accepted. All of this had to be done. And those who did it know what it looked like. Therefore, well, logic dictates to say... What does that mean? Does this mean that when you enter, you have to meet these requirements, and once you enter, you can not meet them? Well, that's the logic of your speech, unfortunately. No, it's not. You have to do it. The fact that Europe is in crisis today, that many countries do not meet the conditions Of course, to varying degrees. This is, of course, a difficult element, an element of the crisis. Only that Poland is not here, which solves this problem, which helps to solve this problem, only Poland is the problem. That's the difference. [[Applause]] Now on voting in the European Parliament. Well, quotes, quotes, so I'll quote something, just a little less. It is good that the opposition organised a public hearing in the European Parliament on the threat of democracy. We are in the Union, this is also our Parliament. And guess who said that. [[Law and Justice.]] Of course it's the Law and Justice, it's clear, otherwise I wouldn't quote it. This was said by Mrs Joan Lichock in 2014, when Law and Justice raised the issue of famous local elections. At that time, the Director's father also made his demands on the presence on television platforms, demanding that the European Union intervene in this matter. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's what happened, unfortunately.]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already called for this once, but once again I will appeal to my friends from PiS: let us stop throwing epithets of the type of traitor, Targovician, etc. anyone who raises our cases within the European Union. The European Union is our common union, this is our common home, and it is possible to talk about all this, and sometimes it is even necessary to talk about it, simply. And you guys did it. Today, such initiatives are being taken by European parliamentarians, and they are not being introduced by our parliamentarians, but sometimes, they are often supported. Unfortunately, this is how it will be, and it will be so if we want to treat the European Union as a non-enemy organisation, only one that must ensure that certain rules are respected. We can argue with the European Commission whether what is happening in Poland is a violation of the rule of law or not. However, we cannot deny this right because it leads to a complete breakdown of the Union. The next point is the one you were talking about here, Senator Żaryn. Namely, he said this: well, the Union should... Besides, Senator Jackowski also said that a major reform of the Union is needed. Well, look, this is a completely empty slogan. What is it? What deep reform? Well, of course, I read between the lines: deep, meaning that the Union should not interfere in any matter. [[The voice from the gym: She was just giving money.]] That's what this deep reform is all about. Well, if it is, then it's not... If this is going to go in that direction, it's going to end up with 2 speeds, 3 speeds, it's going to end up just like Polexit. Maybe somebody cares, if they do, let them be clear. So let us not use such slogans, and if we do, please, suggest what this deep reform of the Union is about. We hear here that... I think Senator Jackowski quoted Churchill here, who was talking about England, Britain outside. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Churchill said this at a time when Britain was a colonial power, in these colonies she did all sorts of unkind things and of course it wasn't for Churchill's own good if someone talked about it outside. Rather, Mr. Senator Jackowski, the immortal Mrs. Dulska should be summoned here, who also said that dirt must be washed in her own house. [[Yes, sir.]] So this is where we can do what we want, and let the Union stay out of it. Oh, no. It just can't be approved. Senator Żaryn also gave a historiosophical concept. It says: please, let us look at all these countries that are now emerging, and let us take this into account, let us adapt to these trends. So, what are the trends? Let's skip Poland for now. In Hungary we have an oligarchic structure, corrupt. In Slovakia we have recently had a crisis, we know what it is. Possibly bound also 'Cause it's all pointing to that. With suspicious contacts with the Italian Mafia. In the Czech Republic It's also a massive crisis. The head of government is heavily involved, let's call it hard to explain. In Romania, protests against a government that wants to limit the possibility of investigating corruption between politicians and various financial vouchers. Is that what we're supposed to adapt to? Are we to assume that these are trends that need to be taken into account and to which everyone should agree? Well, this is absurd. Yes, there is a crisis. There is a crisis resulting from the economic crisis that has hit some countries hard, from the refugee crisis, including some mistakes made, and it is impossible to hide... [[Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, I'm almost done. These are the real causes of this crisis. In weaker countries, in countries with weaker democracy, this has resulted in the choice of various types of populists, political frauds, etc. In countries with stronger democracy No, no, no, no, The question is: do we have this kind of situation to accept? Finally, Senator Żaryn says that Europe should be based on Christian values, etc. etc. I'm not discussing this because, I understand, not only on these values, but among others. These. But, ladies and gentlemen, what Christian values has our government presented in relation to refugees? No children, no women, no wounded, no one. And it's against the bishops' appeal and the episcopate. These are Christian values? Well, let's not talk about it, at least in public, since we already have a different policy, because we're just embarrassing ourselves. [[Disgraceful.]] And that's the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. [[We run all the hospitals there...]] If... here was the issue of the IPN Act, etc. I'm not going to develop it. All I'm saying is that this is a policy that has been called a policy from success to success. I mean, first a law is introduced, which is a harmful gnome, and it's announced success, because we haven't given in to different sensitive tendencies and opinions. [[It's like 1939.]] It is then referred to the Constitutional Court and the President says that he is counting on the Court to deliver a wise judgment. Yeah, I'm sure. Then the Court will issue this wise judgment... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and this bill will be amended or withdrawn... [[...it was supposed to be one sentence.]] ...and it'll be a success too. And so from success to success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u90	Thank you very much. Because every now and then there are more senators, and that makes it harder to plan a break and what happens after a break, I suggest we close the list of speakers if I don't hear... [[I'm the one who'd like to add up.]] Good. Senator Comfort and closing the list of speakers. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] Mr. Senator, second time, so five minutes. [[Voice from the room: 3 minutes.]] [[Going twice.]] [[Five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am paying close attention to this debate, and I am wiping my eyes out of amazement. I'm talking about Senator Borowski's statement here. I have the impression that the senator is living in unreality, living in some delusion, because he does not see the real problems facing the European Union. And if, on this, some ideological vision of the European Union is to be based on this project, then I sympathize, because we have been working through the ideological concepts of integration of different countries, different nations. How it ended, we know perfectly well. I therefore propose that we take seriously the issue of the reform of the European Union, because in this form the European Union has absolutely no chance of continuing in the next few decades because of the crises that are consuming it. One of the main factors is the value crisis and the demographic crisis, which is clearly causing specific social, economic and political repercussions. So either we're a serious House, or we're at an ideological seminar where ideological glasses apply in view of reality. Back to Targowica, I would like to draw attention to why the Targowica marked such a negative mark on seven generations. Well, if we accept the end of the 18th century... each of us had about 7 and 8 ancestors living at that time... The memory of Targowica... The market has exceptionally negative connotations in Poland. You need to know the history of Poland to understand it... [[Voices from the hall: We know!]] [[The voices of the gave: Ooh!]] ...for a very simple reason. The reason is that the Targowica, in which very many representatives of the political elites of the time took part... Some of them were well aware that the Confederacy in St. Petersburg had been established, some of them believed, really believed that in fact they were defending the eternal democratic values and freedoms that were in the Republic of Poland, and played a role, well, in a sense useful idiots. But the point is that, in fact, it was the Targowica that caused the entanglement of circumstances that led to the final collapse of the Polish state. And it is only for this reason that this confederation is remembered today, and that is why the psychological, political connotation connected with the trade fair confederation is so strong, even though more than 200 years have passed since those tragic events. So sometimes it's worth knowing what you're talking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. Second time, too. Yes? [[No, for the first time.]] For the first time, for the first time. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Attention now, attention.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. [[Voice from the room: Listen...]] I always listen, everybody listens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened so much to the statements of Senator Borowski, who is outraged that some in Poland are shouting at total opposition, say the traitors or the bargaining. I never use the total opposition to describe a traitor, because to say the total opposition of a traitor, that would be a compliment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because the traitor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Shh...]] For someone to become a traitor, he must have been a decent man before, and then betrayed, became a traitor. So a traitor is a compliment. I only use the term "mercury." I would like to tell you that I would not share Poland so that there are only patriots and traitors. No, there are Poles patriots, there are Polish citizens who live in Poland and respect our country, and there are so-called Polish-speaking people who perform the duties of Poles, and these report to the Union, spit on our country. I think even in your speech I have just heard such a term for this country. I ask, where is this country? Polish speakers, whom I often listen to in the media, speak in this country, the country. I said, where is this country? These are statements of people who do not identify with Poland. And there are Poles, Polish citizens who respect the country and talk about their country of residence as their country. So for me the division is simple: there are Poles and they are Polish-speaking, those who report, market, not traitors, because the traitor is simply a compliment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort, five minutes, twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: And today you have something without applause for your representative...]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Calm down, please!]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna stand up for Senator Borowski a little bit. His speech made it clear that he was addressing the Senators of Law and Justice. And I'm a little surprised that Senator Bonkowski was offended. From what I remember, I don't think you're the one with the adjective. I would like to say more, but I know that the Minister will be commenting on the senators' speeches in a moment. I would simply like to shorten this time-out as much as possible after the speech by the Member State senator, so that you can do better in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u96	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will admit that I initially argued a little against expanding the scope of our deliberations and going beyond quite dry, although very competently prepared, information about Polish politics during the Estonian Presidency, but in fact I am pleased that we have managed as modest forces of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to raise among you, at least in places, a discussion about a truly estheistic momentum, because such discussions are obviously needed. It is not possible to reduce the field of vision in terms of EU issues only to the facts that I have tried to present to you. However, I am a little concerned that these facts have escaped the attention of some people and have not appeared in many speeches. I've been trying to introduce you. It must have escaped the attention of many. Information about Polish policy in those 6 months. This policy was full of very positive, constructive initiatives, which Poland was a participant and sometimes even a creator. Let me remind you that I was talking about the Community market agenda, the digital market, the services market, the Eastern policy, the Eastern Partnership, the external aspects of migration We have achieved significant successes here as a Union of PESCO and defence policy. This has escaped the attention of many speakers, especially Polemic speakers, who tried to bring Polish policy towards the European Union to a unfortunate event, which is the opinion of the European Commission on Polish judicial reforms. We remember that. This is a very important aspect of our relationship with the European Commission. There will be more meetings on this matter soon. We attach the utmost importance to what the European Commission is saying on this subject. But I'm asking with equal understanding, with the same kind of understanding you're dealing with, for example. to the issue of positions, feel one or the other capital, e.g. Paris on the Weimar Triangle, approach the Polish right in this matter. And please do not suggest that a sensible Polish policy towards the Union is a policy of permanent noding. They happen to every country, they certainly happen to Poland, situations in which sometimes it is necessary to say no. Among the many moments when we are happy to say yes, and we are not only happy, but also proud of our cooperation with the European Commission, I mentioned the common market or Brexit, where cooperation is best for us. There are also moments when you need to be able to say no. Placing such a version of Polish policy towards the Union, which assumes speaking only and only yes, even without comment or any grimace, as a supposed recipe for good policy, is not a good idea. I think that in our common interest, both the government and the opposition, simply in the interests of Poland, it is that the issue of unfortunate misunderstanding in connection with the reform of the justice system, the issue of the unfortunate use of art. 7 towards Poland has never influenced the quality of our cooperation in all other areas. Because all other areas cannot suffer because of the controversy over one particular case, which is in addition, I will say the most delicately, on the outskirts of the EU's competences. I think that is the responsibility of politics to be able to distinguish between difficult issues in which we must continue to argue and exchange opinions, from those in which we can work together. I have tried to present to you in my speech cases where cooperation with the European Commission, with the EU institutions, with the Member States, is very good. I also talked about not trying to reduce Polish politics in Europe to any single capital. It cannot be reduced to London, which retains, despite leaving the European Union, a key role in European security. I also said not to reduce it to regional agreements, whether it be Visegrad or much wider agreements. Poland today sees all 27 capitals on the political map of the European Union. And the measure of policy precision is to see that these capitals can play a positive role in the different scenarios that are implemented in parallel in the European Union. This information, if you reach for it, will show you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a great deal of these processes in the European Union. In parallel, tens take place, if not hundreds of trials. You can't apply one prescription to all of them, reduce politics to one capital or even to a group of capitals. Such a policy will not be a sublime policy. This also involves institutional issues that have fallen into place here. And again, you can't reduce the position of a serious state... I think that there is no country in the European Union that would say that the reform of the European Union in the near future needs to be reduced to a Community rule or reduced to renationalisation. Poland is not such a country either. There are areas where communityism is the only solution: trade policy, the common market, state aid policy, competition policy. There is no other solution for the customs union, for the common market than Community action, that is clear and obvious. The state sometimes struggles with artificial problems, showing the cost of renationalization. But there are areas in which individual capitals must play a role in which capitals will never be replaced by any, even the most sublime, Community bodies. Such areas are security issues, migration issues, external security issues. In this respect, the role of capitals must be recognised and the role of capitals must be defined so that Member States feel represented in the process. On this issue, we cannot invent anything else in Europe in this political reality. And it shapes Polish thinking about the future of the European Union. We must have different instruments, community and national. If one or, let's say, at least a group of the most important issues for the reform of the European Union can be identified today, it is certainly its re-rooting in the political reality of the Member States so that they feel again, all of them, not only Warsaw, not only Poland, co-owners of the European project. Then we will not have a fever, a real fever before every election, a general election that takes place in the Member States. Please note that today, in the founding Member States, there is a well-established 50 percent opposition to the European project. This is not the problem of Hungary, this is not the problem of Poland. There is no de facto political force in the Polish Parliament that undermines the sense of integration. There are political forces that argue about the shape of integration, but not the sense of integration. Today, in the countries of Visegrad, the Baltic, throughout Central Europe, there is such a social situation that there is political stability, support for the integration process, confidence in the integration process perfectly above the EU average and economic growth. At the same time, politicians from countries that are experiencing fundamental hesitation in the process of integration seek to identify Central Europe as the source of the crisis of the European Union. This is an absurd hypothesis. The sources of the crisis of the European Union are due to the hesitation of this project, which is most prominent in the founding countries of the European Union. In order to overcome this problem, the European process must once again be rooted in the reality of the Member States. It is not about reducing this process to Member States, but about rooting it out, so that people, societies, nations, states feel that this is the right place, this is a comfortable place to achieve their goals. And I think that in this tone there should be a discussion in Poland, because in Poland we have the comfort of discussing not whether to be in the Union, but about what Union to be in, how to shape the Union. Let's take this chance. I think the Senate is extremely predisposed to make such a contribution to the public. I don't think there's any point in having opportunities like this. I will not say: wasted on conversations that do not lead to any constructive conclusion, but which, on the contrary, sometimes lead to problems that are not present in Polish politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u98	Thank you, Mr Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2017, the Council of the European Union chaired Estonia. Dismissed until 1:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 05 to 13 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u99	High Izbo, resume. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, printing No 746 If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u100	Mr. Marshal, I object to the inclusion on the agenda of the law on the stripping of military degrees. We need this bill of reflection, reflection. We have another Senate meeting very soon after this meeting, so there's no reason for us to introduce this law in such an extraordinarily manner. Whoever was supposed to die is dead. He'll wait... I think we can think of it calmly in normal mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u101	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u102	Mr. Marshal, I would suggest that you complete this request from the senator and direct... [[But no, there's no need to supplement...]] But this is a referral to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u103	Thank you very much. There's no... [[...the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions...]] Mr. Senator, but this is... [[...because it's a human right. And you...]] In the course of the hearing, there is a request for referral to the committee, and right now, Senator, please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Senator, there is now a proposal to complete the agenda and we are voting on this because there is a voice of opposition from Senator Augustin. [[You didn't have a review procedure...]] We're voting. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by these 3 items. We are voting on a case in which Senator Augustine's opposition is based, namely on the non-putting on the agenda of the item: the law on the stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 have embezzled the Polish state's right. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So that we all know how we vote, I'll say we vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a supplement, but there was a voice of opposition from the senator. I suggest... So we're voting in favour of my proposal to supplement... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, supplemental. I propose a supplement and there is a voice of opposition. So whoever's in favour votes in favour and whoever's against votes against. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing the vote and giving the results. 75 senators voted, 53 for, 22 against. [[Voting No 1]] So my proposal to introduce these three points has been accepted. Thank you very much. We are returning to item nine of the agenda... [[Hello, Mr. Marshal!]] Yes, hello? [[Formal conclusion...]] [[Voices from the room: Into the microphone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...which is that we take note of this...]] But, no, Mr. Senator, speak calmly... [[Yeah, take it easy.]] ...calmly, into the microphone, so that everything will be recorded, so that all of this, every word of the senator is written for posterity. [[Okay, take it easy. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Oh, please, please.]] Now you're welcome, Mr. Senator. You're welcome. Take it easy. [[Already?]] Now you can. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u104	The High House, of course, rejected the motion to reject this addition to order, a new reality arose. And my proposal concerns a new reality... [[There you go.]] ...the motion I make to your marshal that this law taken by the Sejm should be addressed to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, as this issue, which is subject to the procedure, concerns human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Martynowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u106	I'm filing the counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u107	Good. We are voting on the senator's request that this law on the stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of the reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 embezzled the Polish cause of the state, refer it to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. Who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's proposal? Who's against Senator Rulewski's offer? Who abstained from voting? And we give the results. 75 senators voted, 22 votes against, 52 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] Senator Jan Rulewski's motion was rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 746 and the report of the Commission In print No 746 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] At today's meeting, the Commission considered the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, the Act in print No 746; the committee's report is in print No 746 A. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Calm down, please. I ask you to leave these senators' halls smoothly, who must leave, although I encourage you to remain, because this is a very important point.]] Or maybe the senators are running to the bar so they're in a hurry... Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Thank you very much. Please continue.]] The committee therefore recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. The Act implements European anti-money laundering legislation, in line with the requirements of revised Financial Action Task Force recommendations. It also improves the cooperation and exchange of information between the financial analysts of the Member States of the European Union. During the meeting, a very detailed opinion was presented by our Legislative Bureau, unfortunately an oral opinion. I know she's not in the prints, it's probably an inconvenience for the senators. However, quite a number of comments were submitted by the stakeholders, by: the Polish Bank Association, the Confederation of Lewiatan, the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets, the National Cooperative Credit and Savings Fund. These comments were heard by the committee. During the meeting of the committee, there was a commitment from the Ministry of Finance that these comments would be taken into account in the next amendment of the law. It's exhausting my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u109	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As you may have noticed, Minister, the work at the committee meeting was extremely uncomfortable because we did not have the written opinion of the Legislative Office and it was actually difficult to agree on the various questions concerning the doubts that arose there. This law is extremely important and, as a rule, we support it. In the Seym, the Civic Platform supported this law, but there is a lot of doubt about the Legislative Office. Some of them are indeed minor issues concerning editorial matters, but there were some very serious things. Don't you think we should work on this bill a little longer? Don't you think that she shouldn't be considered in this sitting only in a week's time, so that it can actually be refined so that it doesn't raise doubts? That's the first line. It seems to me that this pressure from the Ministry of Finance to carry out this bill so quickly and under such conditions does not serve good legislation. But the most important thing that you have also pointed out is that this is the most important issue, the matter of vacathio legis. The Minister himself said that it is virtually impossible for all those who are covered by this law to comply with these provisions within three months, and that your original proposal, the government proposal, to make it 6 months, is more realistic. In fact, the social side was paying attention to this. But wouldn't it be worth supporting this amendment, for example, so that there would be a longer period of vacathio legis, so that those covered by this law could simply prepare for it? The point is that there should not be such a rush to fix this bill later, because in a moment it will be necessary to make an amendment or it will be as Marshal Karczewski said, that we have passed an IPN law, but it will not come into force because we will not apply it. That's not what this is about. She's a really important, necessary bill, and she needs to be done right. Why aren't you giving us the comfort to actually do it so that there's no doubt about it? All the social partners who were at the committee meeting today considered that this is a law needed I think so, too. But that she has a lot of shortcomings, which should actually be repaired at the stage of her senate work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u111	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u112	Thank you very much. As far as mode is concerned, this is the question, one can say, more general about how the work in the Senate is actually carried out. I understand the discomfort caused by the fact that the legislator's opinion was oral, that there was no document. Indeed, this is a law which is delayed because it covers a very wide range of entities, financial institutions, entrepreneurs. It can be considered to be quite complicated, i.e. covering a number of issues relating precisely to how banks operate, what information they provide to the Chief Inspector, what safeguards are associated with this, how the Chief Inspector himself operates, how he cooperates with the special services to which he provides the information, with the prosecutor's office. One can say that this is a somewhat systemic act on the operation of the Chief Inspector and on cooperation between the State and the financial institutions. I see... Let me put it this way: some of the comments are indeed legislative in nature and this law will return to Parliament in general because of the 2 nuisances arising from the fact that laws that concern this law are being prosecuted, i.e., imposing to some extent. First of all, this is the Freedom of Business Act. This bill, which was in the Senate, is in the Sejm and these post-legislative references are not made. Secondly, it is worth remembering the law that applies to payment institutions. In this bill, in the directive... I.e., the Payment Services Act implements the Payment Directive and therefore a mechanism is introduced or, say, an institution of a small payment institution. This is something that will open the Polish market to such innovations in payment institutions as the possibility to pay online or in some other formula. The idea is that, to some extent, this regulatory scope should be as small as possible, and then, after reaching a certain scale of revenue, the entity would indeed be in full regulatory oversight. It is these small payment institutions that are not in this law, and they should be. Therefore, we would like to make it very quickly It would be optimal for these tasks to be accepted during the vacathio legis. We will also take into account all the comments that were made today during the Senate committee meeting. The ones that make sense, I'm sure we'll accept. Our recommendation is that these are not critical things. What we heard from the legislator is not critical things that would cause some incorrect functioning of the bill or some shortcomings. For this reason, the recommendation not to amend seems justified. As for the vacathio legis itself... The senator asked me a question about vacathio legis. It is so that vacathio legis it is, you can say, the entry into force of the law with all new obligations. For large, smaller or medium-sized institutions, e.g. Financial, this means changing information systems. In fact, we already have such a dialogue with the industry. We understand that someone might be late. When, you can say, it is that... if someone is late with this, they will not fully implement this functionality within 3 months, then we will absolutely understand the situation. It is not that the day after the act begins we will have to impose some exceptional penalties. Therefore, you can say, there is a full understanding here that there may be such situations that someone will have a slight delay in implementation. Especially since, of course, these aren't critical things. There is a practice of providing information by a financial institution, existing systems are functioning. It's not like he doesn't have that kind of experience here... There is no impression that there are, you can say, new situations that may result in a halt to the operation of the chief inspector, because access to bank data and key information about transactions exists under the current law. When it comes to... let's look at the number of checks. Indeed, I have asked the department of Director Kędzierski for information as regards checks which may later cause e.g. potential punishments for non-fulfilment... Those punishments... These checks are rarely used. The practice of data analysis without having to be checked into the institution shall be checked. That is, in 2017 there were a total of 4 checks against banks, carried out by the chief inspector, the tax control office or the customs and treasury office. In 2016 there were six. In 2017 there were 2 controls for TFIs; in the case of brokerage houses Of course, these are the biggest institutions that may have problems. These are individual controls. And as if that's why it doesn't seem like a situation where somebody doesn't blame themselves... in which some kind of financial institution, for example. Because of some delayed tender, she'll be forced to delay a little... Well, it shouldn't be that the first day after the bill came into force, we'll have control of whether or not some kind of punishment. We're open here. We understand the situation and do not want to... The key opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was that there is a risk of imposing financial penalties on Poland because of this extension. We want to resolve this in such a way that the law remains with a 3-month vacathio legis, but will be fully understood for the extraordinary situations in individual cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Klein again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u114	Once again, because I do not want to speak in the debate later, I think we will better clarify this in the context of the questions. Minister, don't you think this is some new way of treating the law? Because you give an example that the checks were only four times or one time a year, or they weren't even carried out at all, and are, in effect, absolving those who do not implement these provisions of the Act. Well, this is a little ridiculous. After all, in general, in principle, we do not think that control is necessary. If we are a law, it is so that it is observed, not so that it is respected only when the check comes. Otherwise, we'd just get to a completely ridiculous situation. So it seems to me that such an argument in the case of any law, including this, cannot be used. I think it's always, every time, every minister says that control is getting less and less, and he thinks it's a success and normal functioning. And that's the first thing. And the other thing. The pressure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was just that to bring it in as soon as possible. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance felt that it would take six months for this law to enter into force and actually function. At the stage of your work in the Seym, you reduced vacathio legis to 3 months. But did you actually carefully examine whether there was a real risk of imposing penalties? After all, the practice in the European Union has been this way: if the process begins, then, even if the process of punishing for not implementing a directive has already begun, this procedure is stopped for the period of this legislative process. So I think we could be here by now... that this threat of punishment is gone. Is it real, real? Have all the deadlines for implementing the rules been so much exceeded here that the penalty is already in place, we will pay it and there is no way out? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: If I may, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u115	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u116	This threat of punishment is because such a deadline for implementing the directive is the end of June. And since then, the deadline for the European Commission's analysis of... This is also very important for the European Commission in the context not only of such standard crimes, but also of terrorism-related crimes, the financing of terrorism. Some countries are very sensitive, especially in the context of terrorist events in recent months or years. There are, of course, the implementation of directives which may be delayed and for which the Commission has no support for such, one can say, meticulousness. In this case, we have information that the Commission is indeed analysing which countries have implemented and which have not. And in this new system, which has been introduced recently, it is possible to impose penalties as soon as the European Commission's reasoned opinion on delay appears. Here, you can say, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the most appropriate institution which analyses this way the law operates. We have had this experience for the last time when we amended the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. The Ministry of Finance in 2015 and 2016 had the largest number of delayed laws, and this was particularly the case for this resolution law, which introduced these mechanisms. Well, there was already a risk of referring the case to the Court. And that's what... I have information that this new system is absolute, at least in the sense that this financial penalty will be calculated from the beginning of the delay, i.e. from 26 June 2017. As for the first line, it's not like... it may have been misunderstood. It's not that... we're not convinced that the bill hasn't been working since it came into force, because it's such a question that we always... As we understand it, the situation is this: in a given legal state there are obligations, they're kind of imposed on individuals, financial institutions, entrepreneurs, but it's worth remembering that these obligations that are not fulfilled... If there is such a fact that these obligations are not implemented in due time, in any case an in-depth analysis shall be carried out as to whether the infringement is equivalent to the penalty or whether it is indeed justified to impose penalties. And in this sense, all I meant was that... Of course, it's important that everyone is aware of when this bill comes into force and what the vacathio legis is, but at the same time institutions that are supervised by the finance minister, i.e. the general inspector of financial information and customs offices, will act in a certain way, taking into account the urgency of the situation. And that's all I wanted to say. With regard to this discussion related to the original project, at the entry stage of this project into the Sejm, this entry concerning the 3-month vacathio legis was already here. Well, there was an amendment and there was a discussion about it. We were open to really having another discussion with the Ministry of Finance, although as the Ministry of Finance we received this information about the lack of possibility of extending the vacathio legis still during internal work. This was related to this last discussion, and these arguments we received from the Foreign Ministry... It was during the consultation that questions arose as to whether we were able to recommend amendments in the Sejm that would extend the vacathio legis. After this consultation, we were informed that, unfortunately, no. This new model of punishing countries that have been operating for more than a year is ruthless enough that even the extension of the vacathio legis is not possible. But this also motivates us to take into account all these extraordinary situations connected with the fact that this law actually enters into force within 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u117	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you.]] [[No, Senator Czerwinski.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the rights and responsibilities of a simple citizen. Is this bill... Because a similar bill already works. She's being repealed, and there's another one in her place. Does this law change these responsibilities in any way? First of all, it is about the obligations imposed on a citizen, not on banks, not on institutions, but on a simple citizen. I don't know, maybe. any other amount will be, in quotes, followed, not EUR 15 000, but higher or lower.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u119	This law amends, extends in part the scope of tasks related to the current anti-money laundering law. This system is changing a bit, but in general, the citizen of this country has no change here. Yes, indeed, the 15 000 euro is still in force. There are institutions obliged to report these transactions. The citizen has no obligations to do with it, no obligations are imposed on him. This has been the case so far, and this is still the case, so there are no changes here. Part of the tasks of these institutions obliged... That's the key issue. We discussed this because the law covers tasks related to legal professions. There are changes here, but there is no significant difference for ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u120	I don't think there are any questions now. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I'm closing... I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act The text of the act is contained in print No 753, and the report of the committee In print No 753 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report from the Senate's National Defence Committee on a government project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, come out.]] [[I would ask you to allow the President to present a very important report. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As I said, the bill is a project of an independent government of the Republic of Poland. It was passed by the Sejm yesterday. Today, in the mornings, the Senate Committee on National Defence has been debating this issue for a long time. The final proposal of the committee is to adopt a law without amendments, although there were also other voices in the discussion. I think it is best that the purpose of this law is explained by the preamble which I will allow me to present to the High House. The preliminary part of the Act is edited as follows: The Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland are designed to protect the independence of the State and the indivisibility of its territory and to ensure the integrity of its borders. Military service is the highest calling and conscious choice of citizens of the Republic of Poland. The military uniform obliges to be faithful and devoted to the highest values that honor and bravery and service of the Homeland as a common good have been for the Polish soldier for centuries. For the construction of an ethos of military service in the free and independent Republic of Poland, it is necessary to introduce a legal solution which will serve to purify the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in a symbolic sphere. It is necessary to restore the right place to the highest values derived from the Polish knight's and military tradition. The law allows the military degree to be deprived of those who, in the name of totalitarian communist ideology, directed the army against their own nation, used the army to restrict or deprive individuals of fundamental rights, were persecuted because of their religious origin and beliefs. As I said, this preamble clearly shows what the purpose of the bill is. At the meeting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the rapporteur of the bill was Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, now also present in the plenary room. The Minister presented the main points concerning the precise provisions of the Act. I'll allow myself a few points to draw attention. The key here is art. 3, which in point 1 says that he is deprived of his military degree. I would like to draw attention to the extremely important word used here, because such terms have been used in public circulation for some time: the law leads to the collection or degradation of military degrees. No, it's not. The purpose of this law is, which is of great importance in the legal language, to deprive the military degree, in particular It's an article that talks about it. Two members of the Military Council of National Rescue who by law lose military degrees. The article I mentioned. 3 states that the deprivation of military rank will concern the Marshal of Poland, generals and admirals who, in 1943 and 1990, embezzled the Polish state in the following manner... I point 1: acting as a service or commanding officer, directed actions aimed at combating the Polish underworld of independence in the years 1943 and 1956, or participating in the fight against the Polish underworld of independence, carried out drastic acts during that period. Point 2 refers to all those who embezzled the Polish state, giving orders to use firearms against the civilian population. Point 3 refers to those who, as judges or prosecutors in military judicial services or in subordinate units, issued judgments in 1943 and 1956 against soldiers and civilians because of their activities for the independence and sovereignty of Poland, or accused them in these cases, and in point 4 of the preamble to those who, in carrying out their duties, initiated persecutions of soldiers on account of their religion or origin or practiced such persecutions. In the mouth. 2 of this article is written saying that the Minister of National Defence with the consent of the President of the Republic may deprive other persons, who also have other military degrees, not only a marshal, general or admiral. Art. 4 provides that loss or deprivation of military rank is also postmortem. Here I would like to mention an important issue about the passing of time. It so happens that today is 7 March, and exactly 69 years ago, on 7 March 1949, a sentence was executed on Colonel Jeronim Dekutowski, nicknamed "Zaporze" and silent. Mr. Colonel, no one's gonna come back. He was sentenced by the totalitarian regime for being an officer of the Polish Army, a silent one who fought for independence for the rest of his life, for the sovereignty of his homeland and his people. I'm going back to the bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 in paragraph 2. 3 It shall be stated who may initiate proceedings in respect of deprivation of military rank. Such proceedings are initiated by the Minister of National Defence, or by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Director of State Archives or the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. They may also take such an initiative by associations of combatants, veterans or soldiers, and they may act in this respect to the Minister of National Defence. In the next important provision, the Act states that the person in respect of whom the procedure for deprivation of military rank was initiated is Article. 10 of which It shall have the right to provide evidence. An application to the administrative court shall also be entitled to be heard in the proceedings relating to deprivation of military status. Here I would like to draw attention to the main elements of your speech, which pointed out that, in her view, criminal or civil proceedings would be appropriate, but administrative proceedings are also acceptable in this respect. This is the way in which the administrative procedure is adopted in this law. Following the examination of such an action by the administrative court, the procedure may be reopened after 5 years. These are the main provisions of the Act. The act, as it was made in the discussion, is an episode. Several senators took part in the discussion. Senator Maciej Grubski spoke on two issues. The first, more detailed, involved a specific intelligence service soldier Mr. Senator asked if he would be subject to these procedures. The Minister has made it clear that such a soldier is not subject to these procedures. On the other hand, the second part of Mr Senator's statement was rather about the political nature of the act on behalf of the Civic Platform, which is against the adoption of this law. Senator Jan Żaryn has asked several questions about the detailed provisions of this law. I think when the senator has his speech, he'll concentrate on those remarks. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński pointed to the precision of the provisions concerning the initiative and the clear provision in §6, which refers to who can make a request. After the discussion, Senator Robert Mątkow's motion to adopt the bill without amendments was made and the proposal received the majority. So much for the report, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to welcome our long-time friend, well-deserved Senator of Radom land, now a Member, Minister, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. Welcome. We've missed you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u123	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, unfortunately, you have flattened my speech a little bit, because this political statement was mainly based on the allegations against this law on non-constitutionality. This unconstitutionality occurs in several places that we pay attention to. I have a question about... Mr President, the legislator, however, referred more precisely to this administrative procedure and did not consider it appropriate, but pointed out that it has certain shortcomings in this situation, because it would focus only on the regularity of the proceedings, and in fact would not consider the whole point of evidence as regards self-introduction. Do you agree with this opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! As far as non-constitutionality is concerned, I think we are all aware that the ruling on whether something is constitutional or non-constitutional is issued by the Constitutional Tribunal in force, and I think that is what we should stick to. As far as the second point is concerned, indeed, your counsel pointed out that these three roads are here. The government, when adopting and presenting such a project, has chosen the administrative procedure with strict assurance of the possibility of submitting evidence in this case. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u125	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u126	Good morning. I have a few questions, but maybe a general question at first. Why such special treatment in this law of the Military Council of National Rescue? In the years 1943 and 1990, as you know, in Poland there were several much more bloodthirsty organizations, such as Military Information, and somehow those people are not subject to the vending machine of degrading military degrees. Meanwhile, the Military Council of National Rescue, which was, as you know, a strict organization. facade, because really elsewhere decisions were made, was treated in a special way. Why the emphasis on this moment in Poland's history, when the law concerns decades? That's the first question. My second question is this: what is the Military Justice Service in capital letters? Explain it to me because I don't know an institution like the Military Justice Service in history. If it were written in small letters, I would understand that it was a scheme of the justice system, but the Military Justice Service, written in capital letters... I don't think there's ever been anything like this, at least I don't remember anything like it. And the next question, the last one. Senator rapporteur, the military is a hierarchical structure, but according to the rules that you are calling here, degradability is subject to those who have taken command positions and led actions aimed at various bad things. Well, you're aware that they weren't directing these actions because they had such whims, just because they had such orders, someone gave them those orders. From the practical point of view, this would mean that the only person to be pursued is Marshal Rokossowski, if we are talking about the 1950s, because then he was at the head of the army. And I don't really think there's anyone else who could take those grades off because the rest of them were following orders. The wording of this provision, which you are proposing here, indicates that the leadership must be on their side and that the army is a hierarchical structure. It has serious doubts as to whether this provision can be applied in practice. This involves my last remark, my question to you. The referral of the case to the administrative procedure from the practical point of view closes the possibility of determining the substance after the decision or after the decision has been taken by the Minister for National Defence in individual cases. In administrative terms, this type of case cannot be resolved. The question of the regularity of administrative proceedings under this law can only be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u127	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u128	It's a matter of the Military Council of National Rescue. During the committee meeting, it was not put in such a way that it was a facade organization. More like, sir, we're dealing with a criminal organization. In this case there was a decision and a decision of the court of the Republic of Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] To clarify the issue of the years 1943 and 1990, I would like to say that here we are dealing with a situation... a general, an officer who, so to speak, fulfilled these conditions in the article. 3 acts, embezzling the Polish state, serving in the Military Information, may be subject to such restrictions. And as for the issue of military justice or administrative proceedings, I think that's the question. I'd rather ask the Minister why such a model was adopted. I would like to answer the senator's question in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u129	You're asking Senator Grubski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, the proposal may also be submitted by civil society organisations associated with the army, that is, unions, associations. You're not afraid that... when you see these relationships working with them, you can see that they're very nice older men, but they're often very conflicted. Wouldn't that be the reason for some kind of rematch when it comes to individuals, mutual relations? Is there a security buffer in there? I'm sure you'll answer that it's the minister who's still investigating this case. Yes, but on the basis of the request and perhaps on the basis of the documentation that will be drawn up by these organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I will start by quoting the text of the article. 7, which is crucial as regards your question: "Applications made by entities not mentioned in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3. is left unrecognized. And I'm gonna go back to my mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6, according to which associations and combat organizations may take the initiative to initiate proceedings with the aforementioned institutions, institutional offices such as the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Director of State Archives, the Head of the Office for Combatants or the Minister of National Defence. Only after the proposal has been prepared by these institutions... After obtaining information from the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationality and the organizational unit of the Ministry of National Defence, which is the Institute of Historical Research, we can consider such a conclusion to be complete. And that's when it gets processed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u133	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u134	Thank you. I think the subject of my first question was partly introduced to us by Senator Terminski. The law deprives the authority by administrative means. Whatever our attitude in this House is to... Well, that's against the rule of law. Disclaimer is a sanction, it is a punishment, and penalties are not dealt with by administrative courts. Administrative courts deal with other subjects. So the question is, is it in line with the constitution to violate someone's authority by means of an administrative decision? Of course, there's a consequence here. The appeal can then only be made by administrative means. That's one thing. Was this considered? And did the other legislative departments pay attention to this? The second question concerns the sound. Was the work of the committee taken into account that the marshals, generals, maybe even admirals, were Soviet citizens posted, in different ways, to serve in the People's Army of Poland? And my question is, does this bill include this? I'm saying no. They didn't embezzle themselves to the Soviet Union, they had an important mission here. The question is, were they Polish or Soviet citizens then? Or maybe they had both. And in this bill are cases of those few generals who, among others, are. They became famous for their repression and, as it were, violated the dignity of a soldier of the Republic, were they captured? Third point. Isn't that a logical error? Well, you honor the fact that they were the generals of the Polish People's Republic. No one can deny that there was a Polish People's Republic then and that they were her generals of informed opinion. My question is, isn't that against logic? In fact, to us, to the legislators, the point is to deprive them of the honor of a general, admiral, marshal or even a soldier of the Republic. That's three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u135	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u136	Thank you very much. On the first point, constitutional issues I would not like to repeat myself and dare not replace the Constitutional Tribunal in this matter. As I said at the outset, there was a discussion on this issue. Your counsel pointed out three ways: criminal proceedings, civil proceedings and administrative proceedings. And the administrative procedure has been adopted in this law, such is the optics of stripping military ranks of marshals, generals, admirals, who have obtained such degrees, Senator, in the legal order which was then in force. If they have committed the actions described in Article. Three, they'll be taken away. On the third point, I would say that we did not discuss this approach during the committee meeting. [[What about the other one?]] That's actually what I was gonna say. Generals who at that time were generals of the People's Army of Poland and who embezzled will be subject to such restrictions. [[Mr. Marshal, may I? Because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u137	You're asking the senator... [[No, the question isn't.]] You wanted to ask, Senator, did you want to ask a new question? [[No, no, just ask.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u138	The question concerned the obvious fact that the Soviet generals did not embezzle their nation or their country because they were citizens or members of the Soviet nationality. They were serving in the Polish army, and here it is written only about misrepresentation of the state or nation... That's the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u139	That's the difference. And that's what this bill is about, so all those people who... [[Not applicable.]] ...put on the uniform of a Polish soldier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u140	You're asking Senator Terminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u141	Mr. Senator, the idea of the entire bill is based on a violation of Polish state law. That's a very vague phrase. As a lawyer, I'm opposed to harsh terms in the rules. I draw attention to the fact that today many people in Poland say that what the government is doing is contrary to the Polish state right. Consider an example of people who acted in those days, e.g. in the 1950s. Please tell me how in administrative proceedings, where there is really a great temptation of revenge, and there is no possibility to objectively evaluate evidence, to approach people who were, for example. strongly involved in the operation of security apparatus or the highest military structures, and then for various reasons, maybe because they had had enough of all this, fled abroad and passed on certain plans, e.g. on martial law. They could also flee to the West because they were afraid of being arrested, and then they were high officials or opposition activists, such as, without trying on, a man named Joseph Light. Please note that Józef Light, who was commonly regarded as a executioner, feared to be arrested after Beria's death, fled abroad and appeared on Radio Free Europe as the voice of the liberal opposition, the Polish democratic opposition. How do you judge these kind of people? The Act states that the person who opposed the repression and actively supported actions for the independence of the Polish state is no longer subject to military deprivation. So tell me if you're Colonel Light. I think it was colonel and he would have been devoid of rank or not by that law. This is a rather curiosity situation. And this is due to the impreciseness of the rules and the reference to the abstract Polish right of the state when you do not define its state in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I will refer to the content of the discussion. We didn't talk about any personalities at the committee meeting. When it comes to explaining the government's intention, it is very well described in the preamble, in the first two paragraphs. And I would advise you to look at the whole bill in this context. I'll quote Senator Art. 5, which states that the military degree of a person or a soldier of the reserve referred to in Article shall not be deprived. 3, if without the knowledge of the superiors, during the course of the service they actively supported actions for the independence of the Polish State. That's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u143	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u144	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm going to begin by welcoming the senator of the previous term of office, Mr. Skurkiewicz, by marking... [[Marshal Bielan has already greeted him.]] ...that I may miss him because I've been sitting on these benches with him. I was very surprised by Marshal Bielan's statement of longing because he was not here in his previous term of office. [[Sometimes, Mr. Senator, there's a lot of private stuff going on here. Please proceed to the question.]] I'd like to maintain... [[Regionalism is one of the most beautiful qualities.]] I'd like to ask. Mr. Senator, I just got a partial answer to that question. Do you not think that this preamble, which is almost as extensive as the preamble to the Constitution... Well, it bothers me. I'd like to know if it was explained in any way. Why does this bill need such an extensive recital? Isn't it an attempt to discuss the rules and to define what the bill really is about? After all, it would be enough to put it in the bill. Preambles that have to explain what the bill is all about will always hurt me. There's an article here. That's the second question about... It's an art. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (4). It refers to the deprivation of military rank of persons who, in their service, initiated persecution of soldiers because of their religion or origin, or who practiced such persecution. In recent days, in connection with the discussions on the resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of March events, this problem has also been discussed and I would like to know whether there has been a discussion about possible consequences for soldiers who in the 1960s were persecuted because of Jewish origins... Was there such a discussion? And what does the senator know about whether such activities related to the Jewish origin of some soldiers will be legalized? And last question, third question... But I would like to point out that I would like to ask you one more question. Was there a discussion about the fact that this law should have been passed by its nature and should have been discussed in the Human Rights Committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u145	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as to the preamble, there was no discussion on this matter, although, I will go back to it, it gives a very symbolic expression to the need for this law. As to the question, as you have said, Jewish and art. Point 3 (1) (4) is to say that there was no discussion at the committee meeting, although... If the senators have been carefully prepared for the meeting, they may have read the justification prepared by the government, and there is a paragraph in the explanatory memorandum on this issue. I think it's worth getting acquainted with. On the matter of referral to committee, I will say that we have resolved this when we put this item under discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u147	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u148	I also have a question about the recital, especially about one phrase. This is a one-time job, let me quote it: "It is necessary to restore the right place to the highest values derived from the Polish knights' and military traditions. Okay. Where in the Act is the mention of all those who have been persecuted We're talking about the army. For religious reasons, often, other political reasons, often in terms of the first years after the war, and others, opposition until 1980? Where does the bill say these people should be honored? I mean, the preamble's talking about it. So is this law really doing the preamble, or is it just a retaliatory act? Where's the speech... In fact, in the article. 5 is spoken, and this is a good rule, about all those who cooperated with the opposition, who worked for... who supported... And where are those people I think Senator Pociej started talking about, who were persecuted by nationality? Persecuted I don't defend them, but there were others. General Ochab, general, and then even marshal Spychalski. They were forced to resign or resign because of anti-Semitic cleansings in 1968. And where is that mentioned in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u149	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think there's a general rule here that we have to look at the whole bill. There's such a thing as the spirit and the letter of the bill, and... I think it's contained in... [[Preamble.]] Yeah, yeah, in the other statement. So that I think that if, during the preparation of proceedings, whether it is the Minister or at the request of any of these three institutions, such information is known and there will be supporting documents, then this can be considered. [[Can I ask you a little more, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u151	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u152	So the people I was talking about... Who and under what rules will apply for rehabilitation? There's nothing about it here in the book. I'm not talking about my humble person. And I was expelled from military service for political reasons. However, nowhere is it possible to restore me the dubious honor of being a member of the People's Polish Army.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u153	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we didn't talk about the rehabilitation process in this matter and neither did the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u154	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u155	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the article. 5. The military degree of a person or soldier of the reserve referred to in Article shall not be deprived. 3, if without the knowledge of the superiors, during the course of the service they actively supported actions for the independence of the Polish State. First of all, I would like to know why those who are referred to in Article are excluded from this possibility. 2. Well, I can imagine that. General Hermaszewski may have acted in some way in favor, e.g. then supporting one of the prominent Members of the Law and Justice. Well, that's a possibility. That is: why there is a distinction between the persons mentioned in Article. 3 and persons referred to in Article. Two? Why the art. 2, if they actually acted without the superiors' knowledge of the country, are they excluded here? And that's the first question. The second question: was this from a practical point of view, or procedure? I ask, because the evidence procedure in administrative proceedings is a little different than that in criminal proceedings. Here, the judge must determine what was the action indicated in the article. 5, i.e. the active support of the action, will result in the exclusion of the person concerned as regards the sanctions laid down in that Act. Was there a discussion that in this respect the criminal procedure would be much fairer, more thorough and more procedural security than the administrative procedure? Did they even talk about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u156	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I spoke of this at the very beginning. Well, there were three possible routes of action. The draft concerns administrative proceedings, so that precise discussion on the reference of Article. 5 to Article Three and two were gone. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay attention to the fact that this procedure... The site will have the opportunity to submit evidence, but also, besides, we will rely on the knowledge that is contained in the state archives, and I broadly understand that, and I don't want to expand it anymore, but it is the military archives, the state archives, the Institute of National Remembrance. And all of this will be subject to an analytical procedure. And then there will be a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u157	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, at the request of the Civic Platform Club, I declare a recess until 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u158	The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of the requests submitted at the 50th Senate meeting for the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act will be held today 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 217. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 30 to 15 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u159	We're continuing our deliberations. We're back on point ten... [[Cell phone signal]] Who's playing? Good. ...The order of business: the law on the stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of the reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 embezzled the Polish state. We continue to ask questions to the rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask a question? Senator Hare is here, and Senator Rulewski will be here any minute. There you go, Senator rapporteur. There you go. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u160	Mr. Marshal, listening to the debate on the bill, I've noticed that I'm beginning to have some problems with the right reasoning... Namely I understand that the emotional side here has a strong effect on everyone, but this does not mean that we can give up rational matters, i.e. from logic and grammar, because it can lead to that, for example. the wording will refer to an empty set. And here's the thing. Well, the problem I had to face is the problem of the entity of the law, which is actually the case. And this is due to two terms, one of which, in my opinion, is wrongly used, leading to the fact that this collection will be empty... And I think we should make an amendment here to replace... The definition of "Activities for an Independent State' often appears. And here's my problem. It seems to me that most, with some probability, will agree that such a country was not there at the time. And that's why the proposal is to replace it, I think it was the creators of this law that had in mind. In the words of the State's independence. And that's gonna change, I think, a lot. Therefore, in the meantime, during the break I allowed myself to be sure by consulting Polish language specialists. I consulted Professor Małgorzata Karwatowska, who confirmed my suspicions that using the definition of an independent state, we would have great problems with this law fulfilling the conditions of correctness, but if we use the definition of state independence, it would be all right. And that is why my proposal is to carefully review the law here and introduce a definition of the State's independence action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u161	That's a question for the senator, isn't it? Did... [[Yes. Can this be done? The grammatical and logical analysis of this bill.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The way your professor poses a problem is rather qualified for the discussion phase and to propose an amendment. This was not presented during the committee's deliberations. That's all I have to say about it. And if the professor has such a will, we have, so to speak, an opportunity to take part in the discussion and possibly a possibility of second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u163	Mr. Senator Rulewski... There isn't. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] Does the senator have a question for the senator? [[No.]] [[No, there isn't.]] Then I'll take you out. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question, because it is difficult to disagree with the justification for the bill, namely that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland serve to protect the independence of the state and the indivisibility of its territory and to ensure the integrity of its borders, etc., etc. These are absolutely issues that each of us agrees with. But I have a question, what was the premise that only now Parliament of the Republic of Poland Yesterday the Sejm, today we, the Senate It takes urgent care of this law. Why then, when Poland was in the process of systemic changes, when in memory of many of us These cases were relatively fresh, the public was interested in these events, the evidence was also relatively fresh, little of it, Law and Justice also ruled at that time, even in the years 2005-2007, and previously former parliamentarians who are now part of the Law and Justice You didn't take the issue until today? This is my fundamental question from the point of view of proceding this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u165	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I will immediately say that there was no discussion at the committee meeting about such a problem. I share your reasoning, only my concern goes back to 1989. As a young senior at the time, I hoped that there would be a clear and unambiguous break-up with the totalitarian, communist system. And it's painful to say that it's only today that time has come. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But why? What do you think?]] But this isn't the time to make personal judgments about this we can talk about in the clowns. Because my role is the role of rapporteur. [[Sure. I have another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u167	Good. Mr. Senator, I'm writing you down, right? Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u168	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, because, frankly, this law was only passed yesterday, I had no opportunity to read all of its records. I would like you to tell me briefly, in two sentences, what the degradation procedure will look like for the living and what the degradation procedure will be for the dead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u169	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Act does not concern degradation, the Act concerns deprivation of military degree, as described in Article. 2 as regards the members of the Military Council of National Rescue, who by law lose their military degree, and in Article. 3, which in its 2 points... in the mouth. 1 speaks of people who embezzled the Polish cause of the state 4 conditions are mentioned here and will be deprived of military rank under such a procedure that the Minister of National Defence will be able to take such actions of his own motion in the case of persons who have the rank of General, Admiral, Marshal of Poland after consulting the President. The applications will be submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Director of State Archives or the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. There is also a possibility that the Kombatant organisations will be able to take an initiative in these institutions that I mentioned earlier, with an initiative to prepare proposals to initiate proceedings in the field of military deprivation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u171	Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u172	Mr. Marshal, if the senator is unable to answer these questions, I will address them to the Minister. I have two questions. The first question is whether the deprivation of military rank is also linked to the deprivation of remuneration currently collected or collected by heirs by the families of persons who will be subject to that law. And second question. Do we know the opinion of the hierarchs of the Church on this law? Because it also applies to a certain sacrum, that is to say, the dead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u173	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you were a member of the committee meeting. Neither the first nor the second issue has been discussed. I think the right answer to the question will be the Minister, if necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u175	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I am sorry to dig into certain issues, but I am not a member of this committee, and the bill is extremely important from the point of view of the history, the latest history of the Polish state. So I will ask further so that I can make a decision in a responsible and conscious manner during, probably, tomorrow's vote. Who will decide to deprive a soldier of his military rank? If you'd be kind enough to say it... I understand that it will be undertaken on the basis of the conditions you spoke of, Senator, in response to the question of my club colleague, Senator Filip Libicki. But who will deprive him of rank and in what cases? Will it be a one-man subject, or will it be a collegial body? Who's gonna de facto deprive those military ranks of military troops?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u177	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the article. Article 6 (2) states that the order to deprive a marshal, generals and admirals of a military degree shall be issued by the Minister of National Defence with the President's consent, but the administrative procedure under which the party may apply shall also be brought before the administrative court in such a situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u179	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, unfortunately, I could not take part in today's work of the committee, and I am very concerned about one aspect of the two states: the legal situation that will take place after the adoption of the law and the facts. The bill will degrade, for example. General Iks or Igrek, but in public space, on various kinds of material objects, monuments, tombstones, books, documents, textbooks, these titles will actually continue to function. How was this aspect discussed by the committee? What will be the consequences of this fact?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u181	There you go, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u182	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, well, I regret that you always bring the committee... [[...in the Seym.]] Yes, sir. However, this issue was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. However, I think that we need to bear in mind here above all that, as Parliament and the Senate, we are legislative chambers, and that is what drives us to take action. This scope was not discussed at the committee meeting. However, I hope that the bill will be passed in the form proposed by the government after the Sejm's adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u183	Thank you. I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u184	The law quite precisely and clearly, in this respect, states that it is deprived It doesn't degrade, it doesn't degrade. It's a military degree. As you know, along with having a military degree, they deserved such people, especially those who are most spoken of here, starting with the WRON... Firstly, they received the highest national and war decorations, and secondly, their families received benefits resulting from military service relationships. And here's the question: will these people continue to be bachelors of these high war and state decorations? And the second question is, are the families... Can it be considered that there will be revised pensions and various other benefits? Because we're talking about different benefits, from housing to insurance. Will the law also include this fact? In my opinion... Don't you think? Ooh, maybe that's the question. That this should be clearly recorded in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u185	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, there was no discussion on this matter. And I'm very clear about that. At the sitting, although the question of decorations was taken up by Senator Zarin, but in a completely different context. [[I'll tell you.]] I think the senator will put it in his speech. And these social issues, social security issues, were not the subject of a committee. I think the right address for this question will be the Minister if such a question arises. [[And that's the second question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u187	There you go, Mr. Senator. [[That's the second question about other benefits, especially social benefits, when it comes to families...]] [[That's what I meant.]] [[It was, wasn't it? I'm sorry.]] Thank you. Senator Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: do you remember what General Jaruzelski was accused of in the Third Polish Republic? He was accused of engaging in a criminally armed union. That's a very serious charge, as you know. It's a trial for reasons... [[Healthy.]] ...healthy, but also, so to speak, procedurally-criminal, even though it lasted for a very long time, it didn't come to the end. And my question is: was the Military Council of National Rescue, as a structure, compatible with the Polish People's Republic's Law? And has martial law been introduced in accordance with Peerel's law, wasn't it? In other words, was it a criminal group within the meaning of the law, or was it a group acting under and on the basis of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u189	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. Well, I have to use such a formula that the discussion on this issue, which you put it in the way you put it, was not at the committee meeting. But we know that in his decision, in his decision, the Provincial Court in Warsaw referred to the Military Council of National Survival as an organization modeled on military Junt and organized criminal union. It should be noted that none other than the first Secretary of the Central Committee of PZPR Wojciech Jaruzelski directed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u191	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether during the committee meeting there was a discussion about the fact that the competence to deprive military degrees on the basis of evidence should belong in the 21st century, in the middle of Europe, in a civilized state. To independent judges and independent courts. Was there such a discussion? Has anyone ever raised such doubts?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u193	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As I said in the introduction, in the position presented by you, three possible ways of proceeding were indicated: criminal procedure, civil procedure and administrative procedure adopted by the authors of the law, the government of the Republic of Poland. That's how she was accepted. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u195	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, don't you think that the executive authority is the emanation of the parliamentary majority? These are very important matters from the point of view of the history of the newest Polish state, but also from the point of view of the fate of those who will undergo this procedure. Don't you think that in order to avoid political threads They may not be there, but opponents of this type of proceding path will be able to use such arguments ! and avoid possible accusations in this regard, should we try to ensure, however, that the independent judges and the independent court make such decisions, make such judgments, make such judgments? Because then we would have a guarantee that the political dispute in no way affects the assessment of these resumes and such and not other decisions taken.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u197	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There was no discussion. You're asking my opinion on this. I do not want to divorce in this matter, but I regret that during the period of the Third Polish Republic there were such situations that criminals, e.g. Mr. Humer and many others... They were not successfully judged by the justice system of the Third Republic of Poland. I hope that this law adopted yesterday by the Sejm, which is being debated today in the Senate, will close a chapter which should have been closed long ago, at least in 1989.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u199	Thank you. I have a question. Senator rapporteur, I'm sorry about the last statement. Humer has been judged... [[Yes...]] The court ruling was final. [[Yes, the ruling... yes, of course. That's right.]] I have a question for you to explain the time-cure that has been applied here. The Act sets out the principles and the mode of stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of the reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 embezzled the Polish state. Why this year 1943, this time-curse? I understand. I can even give you a hint. I think it's about creating a division of Berling and the Polish Patriots' Union under the direction of Wanda Wasilewska. [[Yes.]] Yeah, I guess so. But I'd like to make sure I'm right. But this final date, 1990... why the cezura? [[Mr. Marshal...]] 1990 Because in 1989 there were elections, partially free, but elections, in June exactly. [[May.]] Until May 1990, Mr. Senator, two members of the WRON held ministerial functions. I remind you that by May Kiszczak was Minister of the Interior, and Siwicki was... [[He was Minister of National Defense.]] ...the Minister of National Defense, yes. I know it's hard, but it has to be interpreted somehow. I think there should be a specific date, i.e. not an annual date. Maybe not a day's work, but more concrete, because then there'll be problems. 1990 Whether it's the beginning of 1990 or the end of 1990. Similarly, in the case of 1943. And that's why I'm asking you this question. I told you what my suspicions were, but maybe the senator knows more than that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the starting date of the year is concerned, Mr. Marshal is right. And I am more familiar with this issue from the sitting of the Sejm committee, because this thread was not taken up at the session of the Senate committee, i.e. from Dr. Paweł Piotrowski's speech from the historical institute. Just the date of the uprising of the 1st Warsaw Infantry Division and the appointment by Józef Stalin as commander of Zygmunt Berling was important for determining the starting date. But I don't remember if the closing date was defined in that statement, but I think it's... If, in the second part, the Minister would be kind enough to explain, I think he would be... And as for the first part, Mr. Marshal is right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u201	And I'll ask the Minister. Of course, that first date, 1943, it could even be an annual one, because basically... Oh, because there are postmortem degradations, she should be pretty thorough, too. This date closer to me should be accurate. I don't know what amendment to make here. I can think about it, but I'd like the Minister to prepare himself for my questions. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] And now... [[Senator Joseph the Hare.]] ...Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Isn't the number of institutions that can report these cases subject to the bill being discussed too high? Where does my question come from? I was away in the fall, quite far away, in a place where there are many not only Polish organizations, but also those that involve anti-Hitler activity, anti-communist during the war and after the war. Unfortunately, these organizations were hurting me. They're incredibly conflicted. When we were dating some, they were good, as they say, at the others, and like the others, they were good again at those... And now I imagine what opportunity they're going to get this way and how they're going to clog up all the administrative flows we can get when it comes to those who are going to be involved in the implementation of the bill. It's gonna be a lot of work. So that's the question I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u203	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, however, I would advise more precise insight into the bill, because there are not so many of these institutions. This can be done by the Minister of National Defence or at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Director of State Archives and the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. As far as the question that the professor is taking is concerned, here we are dealing with rather with the initiative of these veteran organizations, which will be able to initiate such a speech to these three institutions. And if such organisations, such associations, were to occur, because, of course, such situations could happen, this is the solution, because the applications submitted by unauthorised entities pursuant to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 remain unattended. Thank you very much. [[I see. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u205	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there a discussion... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked about the issue of cezura, about this date, because in art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is referred to the time period in which the soldiers embezzled the Polish state. Aren't you afraid that this law opens the way or creates a kind of precedent, because we are here in the years 1943 and 1990, and perhaps in 28 years from now there will be political forces in Poland which, under the experience of this law, will review the behaviour of Polish soldiers from the perspective of the present and assess soldiers who are active in the Polish Armed Forces today? Aren't you afraid that we are creating a kind of precedent which, in the future, will, perhaps very, very far away, provoke political forces in Poland to repeat this precedent? Isn't that dangerous for the Polish Armed Forces? Do you not fear, at least, that young Poles will think many times before joining the Polish army, fearing that in the future, perhaps someone will make an evaluation, review, more or less honest in their personal assessment, and will deprive them of their achievements, which they obtained by serving in the Polish army? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u207	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Your question, first of all, goes beyond the point, and I know that your assumption is to ask such questions. [[No, that wasn't my assumption.]] I believe that the key to understanding this law is the word 'Independence', also in the context that the professor has said, this is also an important issue. I think that we are at such a time of history that the authorities in Poland are established on the basis of democratic choice, the army serves the Republic of Poland, serves to preserve the independence, sovereignty and integrity of the territory, and this is the great effort of the Armed Forces of the independent Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u209	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. My first question: why in the public opinion, generally in circulation, let's call it, is this law functioning as a degradative act? This isn't a degradation bill, because degradation is bringing someone's military rank down to their rank. It's a law on stripping military degrees, and that's a completely different issue. So maybe the senator could explain it. Public opinion is also misled because there is talk of a degradation bill. Now here's the second question I'd like to ask you. Do I think correctly? Well, in my opinion, this key bill deprives 22 people of military rank, doing so from a vending machine. It's about members of the National Rescue Military Council. If I remember correctly, it was 22 people. In other situations, certain criteria must be met. There is also an appeal procedure, including a court procedure before a voivodship administrative court, so it is not so that something happens with a vending machine. That's why I'd ask the senator... Maybe I'm thinking wrong. But if that's what I think it is, I'm asking the senator to explain it, because the public has the right. It's to know. There are various fake news and contradictions about this law, e.g. such that all troops who worked in intelligence structures during the period of the Polish People's Republic will be deprived of military degree, etc. I've read this bill, and it doesn't say anything like that. Well, unless they're all met together, I don't know... Well, maybe there was someone who was in the informational military structures, engaged in criminal activities in relation to the people he was dealing with, and embezzled... If he fulfilled any conditions, he could possibly be asked by the Minister of National Defence to ask the president to deprive him of his military degree. That's how I understand this bill. Tell me if I'm wrong or if I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u211	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u212	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, on the first point, I'm going to say this: this law is not a degradative law. This law is a law concerning the deprivation of military degrees of persons who are laid down in the Act. She, as was said at the committee meeting, is clear and precise. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 it is clearly written that it concerns the Military Council of National Rescue, as well as soldiers, state officials who embezzled the Polish state's cause. Minister Skurkiewicz gave one of the most drastic examples where a soldier would be devoid of rank. The situation is as follows. Imagine... I'm sure you've all seen the show. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The paramedic Inka was sentenced by the communist authorities to the death penalty by shooting. Soldiers from the firing squad, maybe intuitively, didn't want to execute that sentence and just didn't hit Inka. Then the commander of the firing squad committed a murder by firing a short weapon on that innocent paramedic. It was drastic... There's an appropriate record in the bill. Allow me to find him. It was a drastic violation of the law, what this man did. As far as the use of the concept of degradation is concerned, I think that there is also the operation of media communities in order to mislead the public, which I regret. But we're dealing with the situation we're dealing with. This law, I think, is the hope of closing the time of communist terror, carried out with the participation of the structures of evil that destroyed Poland and its citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u213	Senator Slugocki. [[Me too.]] Oh, you. I'm sorry. You're still Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u214	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but I also asked a second question, maybe rhetorical, but in that case please tell me that this is a rhetorical question. Well I said that I understand that this law from the vending machine, i.e. from the law itself, without any procedure, conclusion, etc., is merely described who and on what legal basis is deprived of military degree, but this concerns twenty-two situations, i.e. from the vending machine of all members of the Military Council of National Rescue. There were 22 of them. As for the rest of the situation, this is a procedure, it must be met together, I stress: together, there are conditions, and if there is a deprivation of military rank, it is possible to appeal to the provincial administrative court, which will decide on this matter in the procedure of the application. As I understand it, it's not in this bill. That's what I read in it, isn't it? Something such that from a vending machine, for example, people serving in some structure of the then MON or the popular Polish army, for example in the height of an interview or in some kind of... I don't know what it was called, these red envelops... I already forgot right now... [[Voice from the room: CWB.]] [[The voice from the hall: In the CWB it had navy blue.]] Did CWB... Well, the CWB was under the Minister of Internal Affairs, but they were internal troops... Or maybe the Homeland Security, the Homeland Security, which was also a certain intelligence structure... I understand that those who have served in such formations are not from a vending machine without... Unless they have committed this misrepresentation, there is a conclusion, there is conduct, etc., etc. So the point is for the senator to explain this to the public, because this act, as I see it, functions in the media space as automatically depriving actually everyone who was in any way connected to the People's Polish Army in a professional way, except the soldiers who were from the collection of... So I'd like the senator to confirm whether my reasoning is right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u215	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Your reasoning is right. I'm just gonna say it again, because I said it at the very beginning, that this action by law against the members of the Military Council of National Rescue speaks of art. 2 and it concerns all members. In the second situation, which you describe, Article shall apply. 3 in all three, I apologize, two points, and in point 1 of the four sections, by submitting an application to those institutions that I mentioned earlier, with the possibility, as Art. 10 that, in respect of those who have been subject to proceedings in respect of deprivation of military rank, they have the right to produce evidence. Here is also important art. 12: the order in respect of deprivation of military rank shall be subject to an action before the administrative court. So that the Senator's side is right, but there's still room for clarification about this procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u217	Good. Mr. Senator, because it seems to me that there's been some inaccuracies in the senator's question, I'd like to ask if there's any indication from the article. 3, concerning the initiation of this type of procedure in relation to persons who embezzled the Polish state, should be read together or separately. Are these conditions combined or should each one be treated separately? Because I think they're separated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u218	Yeah, they're separated. Here, in the preamble or in the mouth. 1, there's no proper way to say it, a logical record, so that they... [[Each one of them?]] Each of them is a separate casus... [[Separate?]] ...for consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u219	Yeah, that's what I meant. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, one last question. It may seem too trivial in the context of the gravity of the matters we are discussing, but it is probably also important because it concerns public finances. So I'm going to ask you, Mr. Senator, are you specified in this bill... Was there a discussion at the committee's meeting on the financial implications of this regulation? Because it is right that Senator Rybicki pointed out that the entry into force of this law will entail many operations, activities which, of course, cost. And so now: did the legislator estimate the financial impact of this regulation and from whose budget will they de facto be covered? Will this be the budget of the Ministry of National Defence? Perhaps in the state budget this year there will be a line related to the entry into force of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u221	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think every senator has prepared himself. I have reached what is available to every senator for the debate on this bill. When preparing this project, the government presented an impact assessment of the regulation. In the so-called. The diagram here is clear information: the solutions adopted will not significantly affect the public finance sector, including the state budget and the budgets of local government units.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u223	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u224	Mr. Senator, I apologize for your inquisitiveness, but in most of the regulations we are dealing with, there are key words, key words: the bill does not provide for financial means to introduce one or another regulation. And yet what you asked Senator Rybicki is a real problem. Removing the military degree from the tombstone costs, changing the manual or document costs. Who's gonna be responsible for this? I suppose it's not the one who put this bill forward, it's the public finance sector. So my question is this: before the introduction of this law, did anyone estimate I repeat: estimated, I am not asking for precise data What kind of government of magnitude can this be, and what will be the source of funding for these operations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u225	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're following the wrong lead. The bill does not provide for such activities as you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u227	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. [[I have a question for you.]] Oh, there are questions. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u228	I must be stubborn, Senator. Forgive my attitude. Suppose there's a tombstone on it, and it says it's the grave of General Ix. I understand that... [[Staying?]] ...the intention of the legislator is not that, despite the fact that General Iks will be deprived of this degree of military, the tombstone will forever be written that the general rests here. That's how I understand it, because you said you didn't have the money to remove the wrong inscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u229	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Act does not enter into the sphere of such activities. Maybe some people would want these people out there somewhere, but they won't. [[But what kind of people? I don't understand.]] We'll sort this out in the cockroaches. The bill is designed to close a chapter that should be closed in Poland long ago. [[From A to Z. I understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u231	It's probably about the chiseled people, but the bill of this It doesn't. The Senator rapporteur stresses that. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Skurkiewicz like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, at the very beginning, I would like to thank you very much for the warm words that were addressed to me during our discussion. I'm going back to the Senate with sentiment, and I think this sentiment will remain for many years, Mr. Marshal. I will refer, if you don't mind, to a few of the points that have been raised when addressing the rapporteur's senator. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that, after many years, after many decades, restores historical justice, historical justice. I welcome the discussion that is taking place today in the Senate. The Senate is famous for an in-depth discussion of substance, without political complacency. I would like to thank you for it. We may differ, but let's talk, discuss at a certain level of substance. And for that, first of all, thank you. If Mr. Marshal will allow me, in a few words, I will refer to the questions which appeared in the first part and which may have been difficult to answer to Senator Rusiecki, as some issues were not addressed during the National Defence Committee meeting. If we're talking about the cesor you were talking about, Marshal Borusewicz... That's where I'd like to start. It is about the temporary cesarea which was designated for the years 1943 and 1990. The record of 1990 is taken from the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. And in 1943 it could be clarified that it was May 1943 but we entered the year 1943 in general. Mr. Marshal has rightly pointed out that this is about the creation of the 1st division. Tadeusz Kościuszko on the basis of Stalin's decision. Her commanding officer, as you know, was Zygmunt Berling. It was such a symbolic beginning of the People's Polish Army. That's why it's timeless. Legal issues... There were questions here as to whether this law should be combined with, for example, the law. that these persons will be deprived of their salaries, pensions or other financial claims. Absolutely not. It's described in a completely different bill. This is what the Act on Retirement Provision for Professional Soldiers and their Families is talking about. The legal act absolutely doesn't touch this matter. Nor does the law touch on a question that has been repeatedly stressed here. Taking away all kinds of decorations or awards to degenerates. This is the matter which is described in the Act on Awards and Awards, and it is assigned to the President of the Republic. We couldn't get into this matter. Senator Pociej asked a very important, interesting question regarding whether the bill would apply to people who were cleaning in the army in 1968. Absolutely, Mr. Senator. 1967 and 1968 was an absolutely dark period, a period during which anti-Semitic cleansings in the People's Polish Army were a fact. I can, gentlemen, if you don't mind, give you a few examples of the negative heroes of these anti-Semitic purges. Of course, an undisputed example is the person of General Wojciech Jaruzelski. This is also Teodor Kufel, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, Special Forces Officer of the Polish People's Republic, Head of the Military Internal Service of the MON in 1964 and 1979, Minister of Plenipotentiary in West Berlin in 1979 and 1981. This is Stanisław Wytyczak, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, Head of the Department of Personnel of the Ministry of National Defence, Deputy Chief Inspector of Territorial Defence, Head of the Provincial of Territorial Defence in 1968 and 1972. He is Józef Urbanowicz, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, Head of the Chief Political Board of the Polish Army in 1965 and later until 1984 Deputy Minister of National Defence of the Polish People's Republic, Member of the Central Committee, as well as Member of the Sejm of the Polish Republic IV, V, VI, VII and VIII term of office. This is, of course, Marian Ryba, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, Chief Military Prosecutor, Deputy Prosecutor General of the Polish People's Republic in 1956 and later Director General of the Office of the Council of Ministers. This, of course, is Czesław Kiszczak, whose resume I will not quote, because you probably know this resume. This is Julian Paździor, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, commander of the 15th Division of Bomb Aviation in the years 1954-1959, then commander of the 3rd Air Defence Corps of the country, in 1967 removed from military professional service just for anti-Semitic speeches at party meetings. He is also Jan Czapla, General of the Armed Forces of the Polish People's Republic, Deputy Commander of the CWB. Political, Head of the Political Management Board of the CWB in the years 1963-1955, and in the years 1965-1971 Deputy Head of the Chief Political Management of the Polish Army. Names could be invoked and recalled. The Military Historical Office considers that in the context of this law, which is to deprive military degrees These anti-Semitic cleansings in the army were carried out by about 100 generals and senior officers of the People's Polish Army. And that's a fact that is absolutely indisputable. Senator Zając mentioned independent existence or independence of the Polish state. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 5th contested law is a clear statement which says that the military degree is not deprived, etc., and at the end of this article. 5 is a record: for the independence of the Polish State. So that the senator's expectations are absolutely fulfilled in this respect, by the fact that there is a record: for the independence of the Polish State. Ladies and gentlemen, there are plenty of these records. I'm at your disposal. If any legislation raises doubts, I will try to dispel it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u233	Good. Minister, let me ask you a question. [[Now I'm supposed to be.]] In a minute. I was the first. [[No, no, I was the first one.]] The marshal always comes first. Good. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I am at your disposal until late hours...]] Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Now, questions. I have a question about what you just said about these anti-Semitic cleansings. What makes you think that under this law it will be possible to get rid of the grades of those who did the purgatory? Art. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 4 says... The article says that those who embezzled the Polish state in the following manner are deprived and then there are 4 different reasons. The fourth message states that, in carrying out their duties, they initiated persecution of soldiers on the grounds of their religion or origin, or carried on such persecutions. Without adding that because of the religion, nationality, or origin they have committed themselves... there will be no such requirement. There's no reason for that here. Because origin, Minister, is not nationality. Origin... I mean. You might think that there is this nationality under this concept, but the origins are above all working, peasant, intelligent, that kind of... Does the Minister believe that these are sufficient grounds that you have written here, that because of your religion, your origin or those persecutions... Yeah, well, it's all about persecution. Is it enough for those who did anti-Semitic cleansing... to have their consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u234	Mr. Marshal, you have correctly presented the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (4). This issue was widely consulted with lawyers, not just RCL lawyers, government lawyers. And that record that you rightly called, that is. In carrying out their duties, they initiated persecutions of soldiers due to their religion or origin, or carried out such persecutions, filling in the content regarding the conduct of anti-Semitic cleansings in the People's Army of Poland. This matter has been discussed, it has been analyzed, and I absolutely wish to assure you that it fills this... Besides, anti-Semitic cleansings in the army took place not only in 1967 and 1968, but also in other periods, as the Military Historical Office points out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u235	Senator Rybicki's question, please. Then the question will be asked by Senator Klich and Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The first question: will the officers, soldiers who participated actively in the intervention in Czechoslovakia in the framework of the Prague Spring pacification be covered by this law? Because it doesn't come directly from the content of the article. 3. That's the first question. The second question concerns a question which I already raised when I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. But rightly so, it is a question that should be addressed rather to the government, because it is about the legal state after the entry into force of this law and the facts. Because you can imagine, for example, that a group of citizens will print a quote from General Jaruzelski and put this quote on big billboards, on commercials. How does the government anticipate the state's response to these kinds of phenomena in public space? Because different entities refer to history, e.g. to quote from a textbook or, I don't know, pictures of a tombstone etc. There's gonna be clearly a dichotomy. There will be a legal state that has degraded the general, but there will be a legal state resulting from other laws that will sanction popularization, for example. His work as a general.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u237	There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u238	Senator, as far as the second issue is concerned, of course, you can imagine any situation, because life is completely unpredictable. But if we're talking... Because here one of the senators pointed out e.g. on the issue of tombstones, whether these inscriptions from tombstones will be taken off or not. Well, I'll remind you that, as a rule, tombstones are private property, and it's the family that decides what's on that tombstone, what's on it. This law does not regulate such solutions that if someone hangs a banner or on a manifestation will present a photograph of Jaruzelski and write that he is a general The Polish People's Army... This law doesn't regulate that kind of thing. I wanted to draw attention to one thing. Because we want to talk about it at the very beginning. On the one hand, give such historical justice and on the other hand pay tribute to all those people and families of those people who have been murdered throughout history. These are the ones from the second conspiracy, those who gave their lives in 1956 in Poznań, in 1970 on the Coast. For this law will also include those who gave orders to shoot at the civilian population, that is also described in it. We want to give here a chance for such a breath, a sense of historical justice, if I can explain this question in this way. Nor do we want to regulate that there is no overregulation, that if someone hangs a banner one way or another, they will be prosecuted by the law. Absolutely not. [[Thank you, Minister...]] [[Mr. Marshal, but there was also the first question concerning the soldiers of the People's Polish Army who participated in the intervention in Czechoslovakia.]] Yes, an intervention from Czechoslovakia. Of course, the responsibility is mainly borne by General Wojciech Jaruzelski and there is no discussion about it. But please note that this law describes precisely that if there is an environment that initiates actions or asks the Minister of National Defence to take action related to military deprivation... Well, then it can't be ruled out either. But always, every time in this case, the opinion will be required, as well as the biography of this soldier, the officer who will prepare the Institute of National Remembrance on the one hand, and the Military Historical Office on the other. These are two institutions that have access to complete documentation, the one that's still left, referring to our history, even the dark one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u239	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u240	I am very interested, Minister, what is the right of these work on the law at a time when deprivation of military degree is possible on the basis of existing law in Poland. Well, it's art. 327 of the Penal Code clearly states that, due to proven crime, a soldier may be deprived of his military rank and demoted to the rank of a private. I understand, of course, that this law speaks of deprivation of military rank at all, not degradation to the lowest degree of military. But this is not right enough for me and I would ask you to explain why you do not apply to persons who are suspected of committing at least those offences listed in the bill, e.g. Firearms crimes against... Sorry, ordering... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Yes, order.]] ...the shooting of civilians, the illegal introduction of martial law... After all, from the first hours of martial law, we knew that it was illegal to introduce it on the basis of the law that was in force at that time, which was against the constitution. Why aren't you following this judicial path? A road which is civilised in character, a road on which this court, independent, independent court finds guilt on the basis of the material presented, the evidence collected. Why the Ministry of National Defence has not used in recent years, at least these 2 years, the road that art gives. 327 of the Penal Code, and proposes a special law in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u241	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u242	Mr Senator, Minister, you have rightly pointed out that these degradation laws are based on a criminal code. Today, we are proposing this act as an accident act, a law that deprives the military of its rank. And let me repeat: this law must be considered in terms of historical justice, historical justice. I think there is no doubt that we also want to pay tribute and honor to those who have dedicated their lives, health throughout history, fighting the totalitarian system. You're absolutely right, sir. It's a possibility. This possibility is used by the state in general on an occasional basis, as the procedure is probably very long-term. We took the road to make it a bill. There was also a discussion as to whether this law should have such a title or another, whether it should be a separate act or an element of a larger whole. The government made that decision. And that is the government's position, which I represent, that this is the optimal solution for the moment... [[But why?]] This law does not rule out criminal proceedings. If anyone, any office, wants to conduct this criminal procedure... One doesn't rule out the other. [[But why?]] We thought this was the best solution. This act, incidental, meets the expectations presented by the Ministry of National Oborna and the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u243	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u244	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, I am very pleased to see you here because I am very fond of remembering our cooperation in last term. Congratulations on your position as Secretary of State at the MON. Now, here's the question. I'd like to say yes. I remember the year 1990, December 31, when I sat in front of the TV after the news. The speaker said: in a moment the President of the Republic of Poland Wojciech Jaruzelski will give a speech of the New Year's. And now, putting aside historical and moral issues, I'm going to put that question. In July 1990 Wojciech Jaruzelski was elected President of the Republic of Poland by the National Assembly. It was the National Assembly, which consisted of the Senate elected in completely free elections and the Sejm elected in 1/3 in free elections. From a point of view... I'm not a constitutionalist, but I think there's a problem here. From a constitutional point of view, President Jaruzelski was And still, in a sense, it is. He is the legal President of the Republic of Poland, and at the same time he is deprived of his general degree by law. I think that the state hastily wrote this law, because here there is a rift: on the one hand, someone is a constitutional president, and on the other hand, the law is deprived of the general degree. Don't you see a problem here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u245	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u246	Mr. Senator, I don't see this rift. Honestly, knowing, I'm not going to say that the accomplishments, but these transgressions of Wojciech Jaruzelski over the years, history, in the context of those issues which include this law, I could say that he could lose his rank as a general at least several times. Once from the vending machine See, for example, the Military Council of National Rescue. And when it comes to other issues, for example. Anti-Semitic cleans 1967-1968, intervention in Czechoslovakia in 1968... These things are much, much more. [[Mr. Marshal, could I be more specific?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u247	You can explain. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u248	Minister, I said I didn't want to go into moral judgment. From a moral point of view, I agree with you, but I think we have a problem here. That's the kind of thing. I think if you wanted to. First, it would be necessary to resolve the question of the legality of the election of Wojciech Jaruzelski to the office of President. I think so. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Senator, we have this bill...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u249	The Minister understood that it was incomplete in this matter a bill... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u250	Mr. Senator, we're decommissioning the military, not the function. Wojciech Jaruzelski, as a result of the Round Table's findings, was designated and elected President in 1989. And that's a historical fact. There's no point in unscrewing it, lying it off. It was the Round Table agreement. Today we decide about military rank, about Wojciech Jaruzelski as General of the People's Polish Army, not about Wojciech Jaruzelski as President. [[Ninety...]] In 1990, I'm sorry. [[In 1989, the Council ……]] [[In 1990, the Council ……]] It's... No, no, I suggested it... [[Sure, sure.]] ...as Senator Libicki said, on January 1, 1990, he heard... [[I'm sorry, I was wrong.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u251	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal...]] No, Mr. Senator Jackowski, Mr. Senator... [[I know, I'm the only one...]] Senator Comfort's next. [[Okay.]] Senator Pociej is next, and now Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions. First of all, what consequences, apart from military deprivation, other, I don't know, retirement, some kind of privileges, powers, etc., result from this law? Secondly, how many potentially I would dig up the subject, I asked the Senator of the rapporteur about it. In addition to those 22 people who are deprived of their military degree from the vending machine, can the effects of this law be affected? How does the resort estimate? 'Cause I'm guessing there might be some rough estimates in this area. Of course, this isn't about the whole number, because you know... but there are estimates. Third, doesn't it seem strange to you because it surprised me, in the performance of Senator Libicki, concerning Wojciech Jaruzelski... [[He wasn't defending him.]] ...because in order to become President of the Republic of Poland, you did not need to have a rank as a general, so it is completely separate. You could not have had that degree and also become President of the Republic, so I do not see any logical relationship here. Anyway, I was surprised by this argument used to defend Wojciech Jaruzelski. Didn't the minister surprise you, too? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u253	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u254	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, about the first line, I've already explained it. This law does not apply to benefits, salaries, etc. It regulates a completely different law, it is a completely different matter, it regulates the pension provision of professional soldiers and their families and we do not interfere in the matter of this law absolutely, we do not enter. Of course, as far as estimates are concerned, I can quote them, but I would not want them to be misunderstood by the High House. I would like to use the data prepared by the Military Historical Office on the maximum number of people who have committed these shameful, outrageous acts over the years since 1943. These figures, which I will present to you in a moment, will certainly not be the same as the number of proposals or the number of initiatives that will be addressed to the Minister of National Defence, because I will remind you that any deprivation of military rank must be preceded by an initiative or a request made by either the President of the Council of Ministers or the Chief Director of State Archives or the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons or on his own initiative, the Minister of National Defence will be able to take such action. If you don't mind, it's a few sentences about it. With regard to the first condition, i.e. by fulfilling service functions or taking command positions, they directed actions aimed at combating the Polish underworld of independence in the years 1943 and 1956, or participating in the fight against the Polish underworld of independence, it is difficult to estimate the scale, but given the role of the Ministry of National Defence at that time, completely at that time enslaved, the role of linear units of the People's Polish Army, secret military services, military judges and prosecutors in the fight against the underground, I think that the case may affect up to 300 and 400 people, and it is not certain that so many people. Here's another thing. In the case of this item in the catalogue: by issuing orders using firearms against the civilian population, the case may concern dozens of people, a maximum of 100 officers of the People's Polish Army, who during the period of so-called. Polish months, i.e. in 1956, in 1970 on the Coast, issued orders for the use of weapons, but if this point relates to such situations which are related to the period 1944-1956, when it was fought underground, including its civilian structures, when the so-called. civilians in the field and executions were carried out after sentencing, then the scale in this case will be much, much larger. I think it's even hard to estimate right now. If we are talking about the fourth catalogue, according to which, as judges or prosecutors in the bodies of the Military Justice Service, they issued judgments in the years 1943, 1956 against soldiers and civilians because of their activities for the independence and sovereignty of Poland or accused them in these cases, then the case may also concern up to 300 people. And the question of those anti-Semitic cleansings I was talking about. As far as 1967 and 1968 are concerned, that's the number. 40, maybe 50 people. This is the row of greatness. But once again, this isn't data, this is estimates. This isn't data saying that there are so many people that this law can apply directly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u255	I do not wish to argue with you, Minister, but I would like to point out that only in Military Information, which was basically a criminal formation, was serving, I believe, several thousand soldiers. That's exactly what this article is doing. 4. [[Technically, there wasn't that much in Military Information. In subordinate structures, yes, but there wasn't that much in the Military Information itself.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Military Information. In the structures, in the units were also... They were from Military Information. I'm not talking about headquarters, I'm not talking about management. I'm just not ready for this discussion right now, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Marshal...]] ...the Military Historical Institute... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: But I am in a hurry to answer.]] How much was in the Military Information?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u256	These are, first, estimates of data, and second, when we read into the contents of the law and the article. 3... There is: by fulfilling service functions or by taking positions.. [[The fourth...]] I'm talking about art. 3. [[Yeah, yeah.]] He's in charge. He's in charge. That's probably not going to apply to the whole formation either. Therefore, we and the Military Historical Office use estimates of these so-called. degenerates who have served in a special way the communist power.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u257	All right, all right, Minister. I don't want to get into a discussion. I understand they had to perform their duties. If someone tortured there and didn't have a service function, it's not subject to that bill. That's how I understand it. But I'm voting for the others. You're asking Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I mean two purely legal issues. The first one is more of a note. The problem with the Senate... I'm sure the Minister must be sensitive to this as an ex-Senator... Well, we process this bill without the opinion of our Legislative Office, and, as you remember, we've always had that opinion. I very much regret that this opinion, if it was, was only oral and that the Legislative Office had only one day or half a night to prepare it. The point is, at the intersection of art. 5, 3 and 2, as it seems, this law is unconstitutional because it treats the persons referred to in Article completely differently. 2 and completely different from those referred to in Article. 3, and which, in fact, sounded in this discussion, in the 1950s, they could have committed far worse crimes than General Hermaszewski, who was actually co-opted as a celebrity at the time. From the point of view of the principles of the rule of law, the constitution, which should give both parties the opportunity to appeal, i.e. the same legal framework, seems to be not constitutional. What's more, with this article. Five's gonna be a pretty serious problem. I don't know if the Minister was wondering. Because we say here that we do not deprive the military degree of those who acted for the independent Polish state. Now the question is: how do you expect to verify this? What kind of statements are they gonna be? How are we gonna figure this out? What to do with those generals who led to the Round Table? I know that the Round Table and the elections that followed were not the ideal of democracy, but it really fits into the actions for the independent Polish state, because in this direction these actions were going. It's gonna be a big problem. If the Minister could appeal to this in one word... I do now. I'd like to know, because it's not described anywhere how the procedure is going to be in the Ministry of National Defence, as you say... It's an art. Point 6 (3). How, from such a practical point of view, will it be... Who's gonna do this? Whether it's gonna be a new department or it's gonna be done by the forces of this department... And the third question. There is no regulated issue of refusal, of what happens if there is a refusal to initiate such a procedure. Because if it's... There's art. 14 (1): for the order to refuse to resume... And here it is said what is happening, is the possibility of appeal. But if one of the entities, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chief Director of Archives, the Head of the Office for Combatants, makes this request... There is nowhere to be said here whether the Minister of National Defence may refuse to initiate proceedings. And if he refuses, because I imagine there must be a possibility... Why is there no envisaged appeal procedure in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u259	Thank you. That's it, right? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u260	As far as refusing to initiate this procedure is concerned, we do not provide for such a procedure. Any proposal or initiative will have to be dealt with by the Minister for National Defence. There's an article in the law. 7, which clearly indicates that e.g. applications submitted by entities which are not listed in Article. Six, left unsolved. Well, that's an absolute question. For each case, information will have to be published by the Institute of National Remembrance and the Military Historical Office. If the information which these two institutions issue is insufficient or not sufficient to indicate that the actions of the officer concerned comply with certain provisions of Article. 3, this person will not be deprived of military degree, absolutely not, there is no discussion here. And once again, every time, there will be a biogram from the Institute of National Remembrance and the Military Historical Office. Of course, a separate issue is the article. 2. As for the first question, Senator, I find it difficult to relate. I'm talking about the Legal Bureau's opinion. But I hope that in the following situations, while I stand before the High House, we will proceed slightly differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u261	Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u262	Dear Marshal, Minister! I repeat the question I asked the rapporteur, which is the question of the opinion of the hierarchs of the Church, because here we are dealing with people who are no longer with us today. And yet the question that was explained earlier is the question that has been clarified. But I understand that there are no financial implications for the application of this law. I would ask you to answer that first question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u263	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u264	That, of course, is a matter of... Well, it's hard for me to say, because there's no obligation to consult the law with the hierarchs of the Church, all the more so because, as we're probably fully aware of it, at least some of these people, I think, were either unconfessed or disbelieving. I do not wish to prejudice this issue, but I assure you, Senator, that such consultations have not been conducted. [[I'll just add, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u265	Senator Grubski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u266	From the information that once came to me, it appears that General Jaruzelski was raised by monks, there was such a story, so let's not say so either, because perhaps in his life religion had some meaning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u267	Mr. Senator, besides... [[He was...]] ...there was also such information somewhere that on the eve of death he was reconciled to God. Well, these are matters of faith that remain outside the regulation of this law. No one imposes an obligation to consult such solutions with church hierarchs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u268	I confirm, yes, he was in a religious school in Warsaw and his testimony was preserved, Mr. Senator: from religion he had five, with the adoption of a military trio. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That's good for him.]] [[The Marian priests led it.]] [[The voice from the hall: Marian, yes.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I have led.]] [[Voice from the hall: Marian priests raised him.]] [[Untie the marian order.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u269	I don't know who had five, whether you're a marshal or Jaruzelski, because I'm just coming in... Who's next? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u270	Minister, you've listened to some of my questions. The first one concerned the very same, I would say, the philosophy of the law, in which I see a lack of ambition, and even more, a reference to such tracks, I would say, retaliatory, although I do not want to use this word. Namely, it is indeed a law on the stripping of military degrees, but it says in item 5 that there were victims, were persecuted, were degraded for various reasons. Another article says that too. Why, then, is there not, since the preamble says that the beautiful traditions of the Polish Army are restored, restored to these people, returned to them, let's say, honor That is to say, the removal of the effects of the actions of those whom you mention The restoration of it to people who have had a lot over the years 1943 and 1990? I don't want to mention here and point the finger at those you see here and who haven't been restored so far. That's the first question. Second question. It is said in the Act about those who understand that Polish generals have embezzled the Polish state. But in the Polish Army there were posted generals of Soviet citizens who changed uniforms to Polish, and it follows that they will still be outside this law, because they Okay, I'll give you a heads-up. They did not embezzle the Polish state's reason, because they were never connected with it, they were connected to the Soviet state rations and did such tasks. And the third issue. It's such a small thing. It's said that you can start a procedure... Well, if they're dead, then... Of course, those who are dead are not notified, but members of the immediate family are not notified. He doesn't notify himself, he just informs himself in the newsletter about the case. There's a report of living members... officers, but there's only talk of an informant... But I repeat the question: don't you do it on installments, Minister? Because they will, as Mr Jackowski said here, be untitled, but they will have the highest military and civilian decorations. It's not a game. What does that mean? That they were great, because they had state decorations, they were great, they were great soldiers, and they were still dedicated, and on the other hand they were untitled? Well, I'm not talking about social security. I understand that this bill doesn't include family members either. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: No.]] Right? So I'd like an explanation. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Social issues already...]] I'm sorry. We're demoting them, I mean. We deprive the titles, but we leave the SB generals with these degrees: Stachura, Świek, Ciestonia, recently convicted by the court for violating the law. So can they, as SB generals, be proud? Isn't there some kind of swing in your house instead of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u271	Mr. Senator, as far as these issues are concerned, which you spoke about in the last part of your speech, they are outside the national defence department. [[We're talking about government, not...]] Yeah, but that's one thing. When it comes to restoring those who have been deprived... who have been demoted and who have served the Republic, perhaps this is still ahead of us. This law absolutely does not talk about it, because, as the name itself indicates, it is a law on the deprivation of military degrees of persons and soldiers. It's about stripping. And in this area, we're moving. I'm sorry I didn't answer about Soviet generals in Polish uniforms. Two lines. Of course, the presence of Soviet generals in the Polish army is a fact, only we need to divide these generals into 2 groups. On those who served occasionally, I will determine whether they were assigned to serve in the Polish army by Moscow. And it happened occasionally, that is, for 1 year, for 2 and 3 years. This is the first group. And the other is those who put on the Polish uniform and received the rank of general. But for this to happen, it's... Firstly, the rank of general was given by the Council of State. Secondly, she could have done so in the case of a citizen of the Polish People's Republic. They had to accept Polish citizenship. At the time of acceptance of citizenship they became citizens of the Polish People's Republic and today they are covered by the provisions of this law. I would like to assure you absolutely that this law will also apply to Soviet generals in the Polish army. That is absolutely what I must assure you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u272	A supplementary question, Mr. Marshal. Rokossowski, Popławski were not Polish citizens when they became not only generals or even marshals, but also ministers. Well, then... Maybe later they made that citizenship, but I don't think they did, because they didn't have to. Please tell me whether Marshal Rokossowski remains Marshal of Poland, Minister of National Defence, decorated with Virtuti Militari, the highest Polish distinctions. Is this bill gonna cover him?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u273	Mr. Senator, in the history of the Polish People's Republic remains and this law will absolutely cover it. If we're talking about these decorations, if we're talking about awards, I'm going to say again that we couldn't settle these issues in the Military Graduation Act. Let me repeat: the law on awards and decorations is the area that the President of the Republic takes care of. It is as if the prerogatives of the President and we, as Members or Senators, do not go directly with legislative initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u274	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u275	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, has the removal of the deceased military degrees in administrative mode occurred in any other country? I am just talking about democratic countries, about Europe, so as not to expand it any more. Was there such a deprivation of military degrees in any of these countries? And is that in line with the constitution or just with historical justice? Because you used such a phrase that it is consistent with historical justice, which, of course, I agree with, but I don't know if it's in line with the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u276	Senator, the issue of constitutionality has already been discussed in previous questions. The Constitutional Tribunal shall decide whether or not to conform to the Constitution. Of course, a group of senators, a group of Members may refer the bill to the Constitutional Tribunal, it may also be referred by the President of the Republic of Poland, but until the Constitutional Tribunal has given its ruling, there is a presumption of constitutionality of law. So in this matter, in this respect, we can absolutely speak. And that's it. And the first question? Can the senator do it again? [[Let me repeat: has the removal of deceased military degrees in administrative mode occurred in any other democratic country in Europe?]] Mr. Senator, I don't have any data, I don't have any information about this, but I am convinced that if not, Poland will be the first such country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u278	Thank you very much. Minister, you mentioned in your speech that... you presented several names of generals who will surely be deprived of military rank, and I paid attention to one name, a general who was demoted in 1967 for anti-Semitic cleansing. I just have a question: was he demoted at the time, in 1967 or later? 'Cause I can't imagine there's an organ in 1967 that would degrade him for that. After all, the entire structures of the state were rather supportive of those anti-Semitic cleansings that were carried out at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u279	Senator, every situation, every case, every person will be treated individually. This procedure is quite precisely described in this Act and if the officer fulfils the conditions of Article. 3 of this bill, this procedure will be conducted against him. I will repeat once again that every time I think about the course of his ministry, his accomplishments, etc. will have to express on the one hand the Institute of National Remembrance, and on the other hand The Military Historical Office. [[I understand, but that's not what I meant. You mentioned that this person was demoted in 1967. Was it a slip of the tongue or was it really...]] This is a fact taken from the historiography, from the life story of the general. He was demoted for the anti-Semitic purges that were being conducted at the time. He was a passionate activist of the Polish People's Army. Perhaps it was a person who was sacrificed in the face of this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u280	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u281	Thank you very much. Minister, I would prefer, for the sake of clarity of the matter, that these procedures take place within the framework of what is enshrined in the Penal Code and after some judicial judgment. But I would say this: as far as the application of this law is concerned with people living, I could even agree 'Cause it's a personal problem for those people or for family, like for Mr Czarnecki, and I understand that. In the case of those who are dead, it seems to me that it would be a violation of a certain majesty of death, whose respect comes from our culture, or something inspired by Christianity, and very strongly. I'm not talking about historical evaluations, because historical evaluations are subject to all dead people who somehow have marked themselves there. Without this, history could not be practiced as a science. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the degradation of the dead is a certain violation of the majesty of death, which in our culture is valued. If you could present your opinion on this matter, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u282	Senator, according to Polish law, it is impossible to degrade people who are dead. The criminal procedure shall not be conducted in relation to persons who are dead. Hence the bill, the detainment bill... And it also applies to those degenerates from the right past, who are already dead and whose actions, actions and accomplishments clearly indicate that they were criminals. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u283	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u284	Okay, I get it. But don't you think that, in the case of the dead, at least believers should recognize that they are already facing another court which will certainly judge them fairly?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u285	Mr. Senator, this question is whether this exchange of opinions you are referring to me could answer why we failed. We, all of us, have just dealt with these issues concerning the deprivation of military degrees over the past 28 years. That's the point. I am a person of deep faith, and to me absolutely this historical justice, historical justice is especially important. And I, as a Member, voted in the Seym yesterday in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u286	Thank you very much. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u287	Minister, I have a question for you. I know that the title and subject matter of the law concern degradability, but were you also thinking about the shape of the law when you were working on the idea of this law at the Ministry of National Defence, so that it also had some tangible consequences, apart from this symbolic degradability? It is about reducing the pensions of those who are still alive, or for those who benefit from benefits after the dead. Because since we in the Act have reduced pensions to minimum levels for former SB officers, and the head of the whole SB unit, Mr. Kiszczak, has never been hurt in this regard and his family continues to take on these high pensions, that is, I think, a little unfair. I don't know what it's like with these other officers, it'll be determined... But for example. As for the members of the WRON, it's even those incompetent courts Incompetence with regard to some consequences as a result of the settlement of the past of these gentlemen They considered that martial law had been introduced in an illegal manner. And his consequence was some victims of martial law. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And someone made those decisions directly. Shouldn't there be some measurable consequence here, because perhaps... I am convinced that Mr Kiszczak has done more harm to freedom and democracy in Poland than some local esbek who, as a result of our bill, suffered certain consequences because he was reduced in retirement. And these gentlemen, still alive, can still enjoy very high pensions. General pensions are higher than parliamentarians' wages I'm saying this to show you the scale of all this. And they're gonna be happy about it all today, you know. I'm talking about members of the WRON. Yes? As for their activities, their actions to the detriment of Poland do not seem to have any doubts in a democratic country, at least in this House. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u288	Senator, as I have already said, material matters are regulated in a completely different law, about pension provision for professional soldiers and their families. We don't touch that matter here. But the senator's attention is absolutely right, customs and valuable. For my existence in the Ministry of National Defence, over a period of over a month such works were not carried out, but a draft law modeled on the so-called law was introduced to the Marshal's staff. a deurbanisation law which also covers those persons who were in the pension scheme of the Minister for National Defence. It is a draft law that has been prepared, among others. by the former Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. This project has been in the Sejm for more than a year and we are waiting for the legislative process to be decided. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like to return to the issue of differences or lack of symmetry in the procedure of deprivation of the military degree of the living person and the deceased. These differences are big enough that the bill could be blown up by this, I'm sorry for the expression. Please note that Art. 8 states that the opening of proceedings And this is a kind of branding, you tell a living person. That's it. This procedure shall not be notified in the Public Information Bulletin. The Minister of National Defence has neither the obligation nor even the right to report this in the newsletter. In the event of the initiation of proceedings concerning the deceased, the relevant information shall go to the Public Information Bulletin. So here's the thing: there's a branding of a dead person at the entrance, because the proceedings are being initiated, and the public is informed about it. And in the case of a living person, that's not the case. She's still kind of in the shadows, because the case is at the stage: Minister of National Defence, a living person. Then what? A living person is being notified. She immediately has information that there are charges against her. And the families of a dead person And she's the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the one who's gonna be the It doesn't come out, but this family is generally known. There is only a duty to include information in the newsletter. But there's no obligation for the family to read the MON newsletter. All of this will have far-reaching consequences, because the person living the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One may enter the proceedings at once, but, interestingly, there is no limited time limit. So he can enter the proceedings, present evidence, fight for his rights and establish a proxy, and, in the case of the deceased, or actually a family that can enter the rights of the deceased, there are only 14 days. We see here a lack of symmetry, clearly to the detriment of the dead. Minister, to think about it is whether it should not be completed either, or at least in the actual sphere, equalize these rights, i.e.. inform families if such proceedings are initiated. The point is, there's no charge that it's just unsymmetrical.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u291	Mr. Senator, this is an important point. Put yourself in the position of the Minister of National Defence. We don't have... We have no information, no knowledge of the family, no priors, of the person to whom this procedure will apply. We don't have that kind of information. This can very often affect people who are dead, for example. Since the 1950's or 1960's, and this is really a few decades back. Hence this proposal for the Public Information Bulletin, because this is usually the place where important official information is published. It seems that another solution... your attention is correct, but it would not be possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u292	May I, Mr. Marshal? Just one point, actually. In most cases, you may not have that knowledge, but there are cases where you will have it. The most famous people are not anonymous They live somewhere in some environment. Avoid any I do not know what to call it a pretext to be able to touch the provisions of this law. If you send such a notice, even though there is no such right in the bill, if you know the address of course... The circle of these people is not too big Only siblings, ascending and ascending. Let's say it's going to be two generations. It's not that much. Nobody's telling you, I'm sorry, to look for brother-in-laws in the United States. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Senator...]] It's for consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u293	Mr. Senator, I understand your concern, but the Minister of National Defence or the Ministry of National Defence has no legal basis for gathering this kind of information. On what basis could we gather such information? Well, that's the problem. Therefore, the decision on the Public Information Bulletin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u294	It's just to, I'm sorry, put it in the oven... Minister, please note that proceedings, even if they are deprived of military rank, do not end in any publicity... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no public information on this. Only in one case is the information in the newsletter When proceedings begin with a deceased person. So, theoretically... I'm sure the media will pick it up, but they don't have to, they don't have to. In theory, there may be a situation where a living person will be deprived of his military degree and no one will know about it. That might be because there's no legal basis for making it public. This is the next lack of symmetry. I pay attention to the lack of symmetry, because they will then be raised. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Thank you very much for this attention, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u295	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[There's one more thing.]] You're welcome, Senator Wach. [[Oh, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u296	I just saw what a long list... The Minister, answering one of the questions just now, used the phrase: they were criminals. Well, I'm sure that's what happened in a lot of cases, but I mean... you yourself believe that they were criminals, not criminals. So you could say that they were generals, not generals. In my opinion... Please comment and respond. In my opinion, I ignore all other aspects here. It doesn't make sense to deprive the military of the dead, except for some emotional factor. I'm convinced this is the wrong way. If someone was a criminal but cannot be prosecuted against him, then in fact only historical proceedings remain, and this involves a completely different assessment. He was a general, not a general.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u297	Mr. Senator, thank you. I accept that remark. You will allow the senator that I absolutely disagree on this matter, also emotional. Once again, I would like to return to what I said at the Senate Committee on National Defence and what Mr President, Senator Rusiecki, called here. An example of Inka, Danuta Sidzikówny. We know the name, we know the rank, we know the name of the perp, the killer. It was a fight. Sawicki. And I'm also looking at this bill through the prism of this kind of degenerate, because this bill is going to apply to people who have committed such outrageous, shameful acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u298	Senator Wach again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u299	I'm sorry. I wouldn't want to do polemics, but in the form of one more question, I'd like to repeat my thesis. The Lord says: "You were a priest. Sawicki. After the law entered into force and the proper procedure followed, historians will write, and you will say: "There was a certain Sawicki. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make sense. He was a lieutenant at the time, under certain historical conditions. I am already skipping all other things, but it will be very funny and strange if you say something like that or a citizen or a citizen of the Slavic People's Republic of Poland. It doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u300	Mr. Senator, we stand by our sentences and positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u301	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering all your questions. It was very nice to see you again in our House. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I thanked the Marshal for his kind words also at the beginning of his speech.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to hear the floor, sir. Senator Galin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna talk about the technical issue first. I'm signing up for another five minutes because I probably won't be able to speak in ten minutes. I will not make it, because I would like to refer first in a few sentences to this law and then to make very important amendments, in my opinion. Of course, as it is easy to imagine, I am in favour of this law and I share all the voices here in support of it. I also share the voice, which to some extent adds to the moral doubts of Senator Libicki. Of course, I agree with the fact that it was better to adopt this law 25 years ago, because we would not have moral problems regarding the fact that we would deprive military degrees of people who are dead. But in such uncomfortable situations we live, Mr. Senator, and these uncomfortable situations are the result of the course of history of the Third Republic as it was, not as we would like it to be. No doubt today we are much wiser and we can point to these circumstances and decisions more or less, the time when as Poles we also made a lot of mistakes, and from the nation that liberated itself most often and quickly during the period of the Polish Republic, we remained an epigon. But this, of course, is a problem that we are not going to solve here today, and we obviously have to deal with the consequences. And the result is that the bill that we are proceeding has been submitted to us today, not under the rule of Tadeusz Mazowiecki or under the rule of any of his successors. However, this law has some internal illogicalities, in my opinion, to which I would like to draw attention. I would like to propose three amendments. One amendment is fundamental. I did not date Senator Rulewski, that he would speak about some illogicalness, that is, stripping the military degree without consequences. Mr. Senator, I kindly inform you that I would like to amend the consequences. This fundamental amendment is to change the title of this law, which would be from now on... The point is to add the words, decorations and honorary titles, after the words "degradable military degrees." So that we don't go back to the logic of this whole undertaking, which is historically the same and, in my opinion, in accordance with the principle of justice of the procedure. There must be some logical consequence. Disbursement of the military degree is also in its consequences. And you're right. By undermining the rites for which the Cross of Valiant was received, Virtuti Militari or any other military decorations. So it seems that such a change is possible to propose. Since it is indeed a fundamental amendment, that is to say, amending and title, and subsequent provisions in the following articles Thanks to your patronship, it was written on 3 pages, and I will of course no longer read it at the moment. But the consequences of this amendment are, of course, taken into account, that is well prepared. The second amendment concerns the logic of the internal Article. 3. Namely in the article. 3 is said to be deprived of the rank of military marshals, generals and admirals who quote And the problem is, in the mouth. 3 of that Article. 3 in detail is the provision stating that this applies to judges and prosecutors in the bodies of the Military Justice Service or in the subordinates who delivered judgments in the years 1943 and 1956. As far as I know. Although I'm not a lawyer, your counsel has confirmed what I'm saying here. In fact, the de facto detailed provision excludes the possibility of depriving the military degree of a judge or military prosecutor who embezzled the Polish state of affairs in 1956 and 1990. I therefore propose that this part of the Article be improved as part of the second amendment. 3 and note that this applies to those who, being military judges or military prosecutors, issued judgments against soldiers and civilians because of their activities for the independence and sovereignty of Poland and accused them in these matters. And thus we will also avoid this not-so-fortunate bunch of words beginning with great letters, that is, the Warrior Justice Service. Because it was the name itself, but it was the name used in documents, in various register books, etc., and it was not the name of the institution, so you can have doubts here. This is where I suggest you get away from doubt. And the third amendment. Here, in one of the articles This is the case with Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation There is a provision: "The proceedings concerning deprivation of military rank shall not resume after five years from the date of the judgment's decision' or, in the case of failure to bring an action before the administrative court, from the date of the order, the first part of that provision means that we are actually facing an unfair perspective, that is to say, we stand, as men, in a divine perspective, and assume that after five years there will be no evidence that could change the scope of knowledge. I kindly inform you that we are not gods, and therefore we cannot know what will happen between the fourth, the fifth and the sixth years after the judgment was passed. More really. Even though it was real. I will say that there is undoubtedly a problem that I have already mentioned during the committee's deliberations. Well, today we are able to say that the documentary resources under the Central Military Archive or the Institute of National Remembrance are definitely recognized in the vast majority Although there is, of course, such a thing, I would say, retail doubt. But undoubtedly, as the example of the tenement or villa of General Kiszczak shows, we do not really know what yet hides a closet in the home diapers of various generals and other officers, whether it's the SB or the former Ministry of National Defence or the army. And, of course, we may be surprised at times. But we can be surprised also positively, and this surprise is due to the fact that very many countries protect documentation, and especially the interviews of these countries protect it, e.g. British intelligence, American intelligence. And undoubtedly we do not know how many such gen. Ryszard Kuklinski in the history of the People's Polish Army. You have to give their families or those secrets that work, and of course we don't know about, because here's the first point. We're not gods. Therefore, I think that these 3 amendments could be accepted and would be a logical addition to the whole of the law. But, of course, I'll say it again, because I can see that I fit in 10 minutes, which is very nice news for me, too. The law is definitely of great value, mainly educational. I understand that for some reason this was not particularly emphasized, but it is that the Minister is responsible for the morale of the Polish army and that the morale of the Polish army is to be built, which is obvious, on healthy foundations. Therefore, it is better not to honor generals, marshals, admirals and other officers who do not deserve it and do not deserve it. It would not be good if the Polish army were raised in pathology of such incoherent behaviours. It is therefore a very good law, giving this general sense not only of justice but also of the sense of the operation of the army in a sovereign state. We are still living in the various pathologies we come from, and only such laws give us signals about how often we ourselves do not fully understand the pathologies we live in. And all this is a great educational lesson, which teaches all of us Poles. So that only thanks for it and only thanks. Thank you very much. And I make amendments, of course, to the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u303	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u304	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The fight in today's debate is also about what this law is really about and who it really is about. I think that the Ministry created a smokescreen to give the impression that it was really about some kind of social justice in the name of obtaining some compensation for people who were wronged by the Polish People's Republic and by the authorities of the then Polish People's Republic. But I think it's something else, it's really about Jaruzelski, but it's not about Jaruzelski as a general, it's about Jaruzelski as a president. Gentlemen and ladies of the ministry and gentlemen and ladies of the government, you've already tied up one president, Lech Walesa, because this is the IPN, you've tied up another president, Kwasniewski, this is the CBA, and taking care of his affairs again... Maybe someday you'll tie Bronisław Komorowski up, and maybe Andrzej Duda will have problems. Then there will be one proper president left on the battlefield. That's really what this bill is all about, not to do what you call social justice. I'd like to see the situation in a few years. Perhaps in two years' time, if all this succeeds, perhaps in six years' time there will be a change of power and a left-wing environment will come to power, certainly left-wing, because today you can see that left-wing environments are getting better and better in polls. And this left-wing environment in love with the environment of General Jaruzelski, President Jaruzelski, will reverse this situation and will create a situation in which perhaps your nominators, in accordance with the laws created in relation to this time area, will have problems and perhaps you will also have problems because in some sense also in this law you are breaking the constitution. This is not a good reality in which we will live in Poland after this law has been passed, because we will live on 2 levels, on the level that our Senators from the Platform were talking about, i.e. at a level where we will talk about a degraded, reduced degree... about a certain master or a certain lady with a taken military degree and a situation in which they will function in public life, in the awareness of young people, in the awareness of adults, in books, in monuments, in various things... Perhaps you will go further, perhaps the laws will lead you to receive all kinds of symbols, to receive decorations, perhaps to the fact that there will be a bill under which we will exhume the corpses of certain generals, certain admirals, to take away the distinctions in which they were buried. I hope you don't mind. Of course, this law has flaws, this law has flaws, which have been presented by our colleagues from the Civic Platform. This law has, above all, a flaw in unconstitutionality. Why should today, in the system of administrative law, we appeal against a ruling that is given by the Minister or by the President? It will only be a question of checking whether this procedure, which has been applied to this procedure, is correct, and in fact no evidence will be followed in this case. Well, though, as I say, I will vote against this law. The fact that Professor Żaryn is making amendments, because at least in some sense they are civilising this law, as far as this 5-year period is concerned, to extend the period for the submission of evidence, because I agree with this version, and so we were convincing ourselves at the committee's meeting that there may be archives which, until now, are not available to us, and people have the right to defend themselves. Of course, I'm afraid of one thing. I mean, what Senator Czerwiński was talking about, a very important thing, about the emergence of certain information at the moment when a certain procedure begins. Newsletter newsletter, but the MON Public Information Bulletin also has access to journalists and we can put people in a very difficult situation for whom the procedure will end negatively. We introduce into this circulation the legal veteran environments, and I spoke about it at the committee meeting, because we know these environments, we work in these environments, we know that they are often conflicted with each other, which may be used as a tool to fight amongst themselves the possibility to apply for a military degree. I do not like the situation, of course, that from the momentum of General Hermaszewski we also treat as one of those who made decisions as regards the Military Council of National Rescue. Because I'm sure you all know that... I don't think the celebrity of that time, as one of our senators called him, thought that his decisions were of any importance. This man has been used and today this man will suffer certain consequences, very sad. It's a good thing this bill at least at this stage... Although I do not fully believe in the intention of the Ministry of National Defence, because the Minister has already pointed out that some year ago Minister Macierewicz's bill on the possibility of financial degradation in various situations has been heated. I think that this law will complete this and the persons mentioned in this law, which we are now talking about, and even wider, will be financially degraded in some time. I will, of course, vote against this law and urge this country to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of this point, I'd like to take that presence off my chest... It is included in this law, namely in these struggles, whose aim was, I do not hide, and it has been since 1965, the overthrow of the communist system, the Soviet system in Poland. This is a warrant that I am following and I cannot reject, but I would like to be free to discuss this bill and not be guided by personal considerations, including victim status. I believe that the purpose of this law is in principle consistent, in accordance with the law. We haven't spoken here in this House. Maybe the next speakers will tell you about it. This law implements the 2011 Constitutional Court ruling, in which the Court of First Instance held that martial law, all those decrees, the establishment of the Military Council of National Rescue, the limitation of civil rights, the penalisation of many behaviours That it was all illegal. We add from each other In particular, the Senate has the right, as I claim, on the basis of the work of the previous and current term of office. That martial law wasn't just a paper condition, it wasn't just written down in the decision of the Council of State. It has had tragic, dramatic, massive effects on society. And even if there is such belief in some circles today that Jaruzelski was the president, later elected by the National Assembly, that he led to a round table, this does not mean that this scenario was at the root of the martial law. The basis of the martial law was the desire to strengthen the Soviet power and the totalitarian system, and what followed was only the result that society in many different speeches predicted and predicted. And that is not an excuse. She can only be applied in grace mode if somebody after a while recognizes their error, although I also do not know if to the full. For this reason, for example, I believe that this law, which begins with the evaluation of the Military Council of National Rescue, is in line with what the Court has ruled and what the international public has presented: the parliaments of many countries of the world, the Helsinki Foundation, the OSCE and other European committees which have defended us against these and earlier persecutions. It so happens that the WRON is not just an episode of 1981, extended by several years of martial law. Several of these were also in the preceding tragic struggles that caused even more tragic victims. I'm not gonna feel remorse here if it's just a matter of deprivation... not even degradation, but degradability. And rightly, Senator Żaryn completes this in his amendment, so I will no longer make my amendment. So that it wasn't that these soldiers showed their devotion in battle, they were honored with the highest honors of the state. That's the first line. And the second point is that this law has a preamble, a long preamble, and I think that the ambition of the Ministry, a small ministry, should be to close this case, especially when it says that it is necessary to restore the right place to the highest values derived from the Polish knight's and military tradition. Except I don't see the consumption of that record in this bill. Only in the article. 5 It is mentioned that the sanctions of the law will not be subject to all those who acted in favour of the independent Polish state. But the symmetry of events... This should be accompanied by a second law, because we should restore honor to these people. If we're taking something from someone and saying there were victims, we should remember the victims first, Minister, and then the perpetrators. And I don't see it here. I don't see these people being apologized to in the preamble and getting their military dignity restored in the articles. I had a soldier's dignity, even in the People's Army of Poland. And I felt hurt when I was excluded from the army. I suppose many, many other people have been excluded, demoted and deprived of various resources. And I resent you, Minister, for giving this bill character, I would say in quotes, retaliation. This is a mistake. The truth is, there were not only Polish generals in the Polish army. As we show, there were also Soviet generals, Soviet citizens. Even such an entry in the Soviet Constitution was made that you could have double citizenship, just so that the Soviet generals could be commanders of other armies, presidents, security officers, etc. I believe that, for the sake of clarity, the Marshals of Rokossowski and Popławski, as well as the commander of the Military Technical Academy, who only ruled me out of the academy for non-election, should be deprived of titles for the sake of clarity. When we talk about the generals from WRON, there's one counterargument. Well, what about Hermaszewski? I am not allergic to Mr Hermaszewski, and I would like to say that this bill does not degrade the cosmonaut. It doesn't deprive him of the title of the hero of space. This law only deprives him of his military title by sitting on the Military Council of National Rescue. I am not familiar with any text that would fall out of the general's mouth, about the fact that it is cut off from this automatic record or that it condemns it. He merely stated that he did not participate in the work of the WRON, although I remember that he participated in 2 meetings. I don't know what it was, but I don't want to accuse a man without reason, but he sort of identified himself with it. I think it is appropriate that the amendments extend the time to which the Act refers until 1991, because in 1991 all democratic, sovereign, independent institutions gained, as if fullness of color. We already had a president from the general elections, we had a government formed in parliament and we had a constitution that allowed the Polish state to be considered a democratic state. Come on. I also propose that a small humanitarian amendment be introduced here. The point is that when open trials are conducted by various officers, it should not only be announced in the newsletter, but also notify the nearest families. We're talking about cases where people are dead. There is a record that living persons are notified. What if they're dead? Who should be notified? Well, it'll be in the newsletter. But it's a personal matter... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and she needs to be resolved. I therefore ask that, for humanitarian reasons, at least the nearest family be notified. And it says in the laws that she can act as a party, whether it's... And here's the last thing. I believe that the IPN, which is statutory, legally obliged to deal with these matters, should also have the right to submit applications, or at least... That's it, Mr. Marshal, last sentence. I believe that the IPN has more power to submit applications than the state archives, which will first and foremost have to prepare for this work. The IPN has been formulating... [[Mr. Senator...]] That's the second sentence. [[...thank you very much.]] Forms the conclusions of the illustration, chases, checks, so he's the most qualified organization to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u307	Thank you. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[For what? For my motion, right?]] Here's to the speech. [[Oh, thank you.]] Mr. Senator, Minister Bobko. [[Voice from the room: What? He's gonna leave and go there...]] [[Voice from the room: Leave these amendments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law we're debating is mostly a law. This is also mentioned in the preamble to this law, symbolic importance. That doesn't mean she's less important to me. Symbols are very important and with symbolism in modern Poland we have a big problem. It would be desirable for this law to solve this problem or to act to improve the situation of symbols related to today's Commonwealth. But is that true? First of all, I would like to point out that politics... I am not saying that historical politics, but just creating symbols or referring to symbols in the new Republic after... Yeah, when? After 1989? After 1990? Or was it after 1991? Here in the discussion several times this issue appeared, that we have a fundamental problem with setting the date, the moment. That's the concreteization of this problem that there's no... We haven't been able to create symbolism. Round Table? Not really. June elections in 1989? Well, neither did I, especially because of what happened in the second round of these elections. September 12th, Prime Minister? Well, for some, yes, not for some. And you can keep it going. Another election, another president. It didn't work out. It's a big educational loss. This is also a great disability of our public life today. And, as I understand it, this bill is trying to make up for this disability or this lack of catching up. But is that even possible? Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider and ask ourselves: do we believe and believe that 6 March 2018 will be the date that will enter our history as the final rupture of this umbilical cord, this bond with the Polish People's Republic? It seems very, very questionable to me. And there's more to the doubt. And I would like to point out here that sometimes, in this narrative from the creators of the law, raising doubts about this law is interpreted as defending criminals, i.e. those whom this law is about to touch. I absolutely don't want to defend this group of people that this bill touches. They should be branded. Many of them should have been punished a long time ago. Nevertheless, some doubts about this law, at least in my opinion, are emerging. Well, the first question is that this weakness or this lack of symbolism, in my opinion, is simply not going to make up for it, that the transition between the Polish People's Republic and the Third People's Republic is going through a certain grey zone and the lack of symbols is very clear that this is what makes concrete. The second thing, perhaps even more important, is the lack of settlement from the Polish People's Republic, the dramatic lack of even a certain attempt to restore justice, to call evil evil, good good, to stigmatize those who did not serve the cause of independence, and to honor those who served the cause, from the war, from the forties to the 1990s. We're trying to do this. We try to do so in many ways, even if it is a pension insurance law. This bill also tries to do so, but in my opinion there is also a whole series of doubts here. How much does this law bring with it some educational potential? For how long now, after so long Many people no longer exist in this world To take away military distinctions, so punishing those who have failed to punish for the past 28 years... How much, to say the least, does this act have a certain educational value? How much... I'll appeal... I'm gonna say it like that again. If I take my grandson or student and say, "Listen, young man, it's worth being decent, because this and this gentleman we took away after years, after his death, military distinction, is that educationally convincing? I have doubts about that, too. And they're even reinforced by the fact that this law is launching a process. The administrative process, the social process, the consequences of which we are not able to grasp at this moment. The initial assumption was that she would act automatically. And she acts automatically against the members of the Military Council of National Rescue. It's, let's say, simple. But already at the level of government work it turned out clearly that automation is impossible, that the process of certain administrative ducts is running. Right? Whether this administrative procedure for these matters is appropriate and not criminal proceedings, that is also a great doubt. In any case, a certain formal administrative mode is being launched, but it is also being launched, ladies and gentlemen. It was also mentioned here. A certain ferment arises and there is a stir in our society, in the community. The combatant environments, regardless of the problems I have been talking about, are not settlements or other injustices, and they are often conflicted with each other, they remain in different complex relationships. Here I share the great concern that this law can create a difficult process of further feuds and disputes, a difficult social process. Maybe he won't. Unfortunately, you have something from the proverbial scratching wounds that are slowly healing. Hence the ambivalence in relation to this law. True, it is taking on a very important problem and is trying to do something, to make up for omissions that have failed... or to achieve the goals that have been achieved as a result of omissions, to put it mildly, and even more seriously, so to speak, contracts have not been achieved in the past. But the question is, at this moment, at this time in which we live, these losses and these shortcomings are still to be made up for. This is the reflection I wanted to share with you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u309	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Bobko speaking here just before me about the bill which is the subject of our deliberations today, about the members of the Military Council of National Rescue and others. I'm not going to go into the details here. He said he had a lot of doubts about it. And I share a lot of these doubts, and so do I. I feel like I'm standing here and doing a little bit of what I was saying when we were working on amending the IPN law that I understand... The intention I can understand and even share it, but the question is: why is it done so quickly? I don't know what the point is. Is it a question of covering certain issues that are uncomfortable in the public debate? Is that what this is about? Because I think we could do it slower and better. What am I thinking? Mr. Senator, Minister Klich, when he wondered why this was not done in degradation mode, even provided the appropriate provision of the Penal Code. I understand that there is no question of degradation here, because degradation in the light of these regulations cannot apply to people who are dead, and after all, this law in the public debate has already glued the names of General Kiszczak and Jaruzelski, so that would be a fundamental problem in this matter. But after all, Okay, I get it. This can be done in some way by updating the criminal code by means of appropriate records. A little more work would have to be done, a little more time probably would've taken, but I think it could've been done. I'd rather it be done. after a final judgment. There are IPN prosecutors, there are military prosecutors who could investigate this case, bring it before a military court, and if I say so, the evidence would be obvious. And we're not arguing that there's no obvious evidence here. This could be achieved in a little longer time, but in accordance with all procedures the same effect could be achieved. For some reason, those who present this bill prefer to do so quickly today, day by day, so quickly, that even the Senate Legislative Office is unable to present an opinion to this law because it has not enough time. And that's the first reservation I'm gonna say. It makes it difficult for me to carry out these intentions that I can share. I raised a second point by asking Minister Skurkiewicz a question. For me, however, this is a problem, because on the one hand we deprive Wojciech Jaruzelski of the general level, but on the other hand he still functions... I don't know if there's a historical constitutional law, but no one questioned the legality of his presidency. So the important question is: why is it that someone who is considered to be a legitimate president is deprived of his military degree because of certain special crimes? In my opinion, it would have to be solved in some way. For me, this dilemma exists. Whether we solve this problem by means of some resolution of intent, or first by means of historical debates... But I don't think it's like they're separate, because they're about the same person. That's the second problem for me. Finally, the third problem is the following. Well, I think... I'm going to say it again, and I'm going to say it again: if I can agree that it's about living people, because that's the case. It's quite natural... Well, the fact that Mr. Europresident Czarnecki will have trouble with his father-in-law, that's his business, but somehow in his family, among themselves, they'll sort it out, as I understand it. But as for the dead, I think we're dealing with a certain violation here. At least that's what I think. The majesty of death, whose respect comes from Christian culture. This does not mean that these generals are not to be subjected to historical and moral evaluation. They must be evaluated historically because there wouldn't be history as science if we didn't formulate such assessments. As well as morally, all of this needs to be assessed. But to me, posthumously depriving them of these military degrees is certain, so to speak, violation of the majesty of death. Here I agree with Marshal Borusewicz, who in one of the interviews said that he was in favour of demoting both generals, Kiszczak and Jaruzelski, while they were alive, but at the moment they are standing before another tribunal. either before the tribunal of history, as some will say, or, as others will say, before the Ultimate Court, which will certainly judge them fairly, and I have no doubt about it. For all these reasons, I can say this: it will be difficult for me to support this law. Whether I will vote against her or, so to speak, I will take a different attitude, another solution, I do not know that yet, but I will certainly not be able to support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u311	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very well all this, all these doubts, you just said Senator Libicki. I'd just like to get back to what Senator Żaryn was talking about, that is. that, of course, it would be best if the justice we are talking about was to take place at the beginning of the 1990s. But it was this wisdom on both sides that caused us not to go on the road of 1956, 1968, 1976, 1981, that both sides agreed on the basis of a compromise. It's actually been 30 years. Maybe it would be smarter and easier if this bill passed, it was voted out in 2005 or 2006, but then no one thought of it. And so here it is. Even though, as someone said, politicians are paid to think about the future Once again, as for a long time, we are dealing with the past. Senator Terminski set a very good example here today. Well, it's a possibility that, according to this bill, such a horrible figure as Light... In accordance with the provisions of this law, the procedure for it can be waived. At the same time, it's possible, theoretically, if some combatant organization makes a motion for a colonel, today a general, a Kuklinski... If someone makes such a request, there's no way they're even gonna say no in this case. And we're gonna have to do this whole procedure so we can say that the general deserves to be treated in accordance with the article. 5. They'll be paradoxes in connection with this bill, we'll be exposed to them. Why? Well, that's because we're taking another one. This law without the involvement of the Legislative Office. I wasn't the only one having second thoughts about the art. 2 that it may conflict with the constitution, with this order for equal treatment of citizens by law. First of all, there's no way you're going to court... Second, the persons described in Article. 2 are treated worse than those described in Article. 3. He spoke today about these doubts Senator Czerwiński, rightly questioning constitutionality... Well, I went too far, Mr. Senator didn't talk about that. But he was talking about art. 8 in points 1 and 2, treats the persons who will be subject to this verification in an unequal manner. This bill is, as we talked about, an outrageous one about misrepresentation. Administrative courts will have such a problem. Instead of a criminal procedure A lot of people emphasized that; there was no doubt about it. Which is generally chosen for this type of action, the administrative law has been chosen. Senator Libicki talked about it today. And it was possible to simply change the criminal code in this regard. I'm gonna get my attention again. It's me, again, it hurts the most. On the way we proceed, on the fact that our Legislative Office did not have the opportunity to comment on this. And we don't have here, and we should have a written opinion. Those who couldn't be at the committee meeting were interested It just so happens that committee meetings are always set at the same time; I don't blame anyone, I just say it is. They had no chance to hear the opinion of our senate lawyer, who, as we said earlier, had half a night or half a day to prepare this opinion. And lastly, this particular issue of death, the introduction of certain procedures for the dead. She certainly has a very serious, very deep dimension. But it has also been said many times, these words were directed to the authors of this law, that there is this element of tragedy, but usually tragic matters have such a structure that even ridiculousness can rub. This is very serious matter. But I will remind Pietrzak, Jan Pietrzak, who once said that he was throwing communists out of the party posthumously, and added that the real problem would be when they received us posthumously. I don't know where that desire comes from, like when it happened to people who are already dead. And these are, as I said, extremely delicate matters, although I understand the whole, and I repeat this, the complexity and importance of this law and the reasons why this law was introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a rule, we had the opportunity to debate this law in a series of questions, because often the questions went beyond the very formula of the question and were also part of the debate or polemics. But let us remind you that this is not a degradation law. It was the Minister who confirmed it. It is only a degradable law, so it is completely different, because it can be degraded to a serial degree, and there is no mechanism here, so do not mix concepts and use the word degradation. Secondly, this law automatically applies to 22 persons who participated in the structure classified by the prosecution as a criminal armed union; for this reason there was a procedure which unfortunately did not end. However, we know that from the point of view of the Polish People's Republic's law, both the mechanism of the introduction of martial law and the activities of the Military Council of National Rescue had no basis in law, even in the Polish People's Republic's law and were in fact illegal from that point of view. And when it comes to moral judgment, it's obvious to me. As regards the groups that will be covered by the Act, groups of former professional soldiers who will be covered by the Act, this is also a procedure which determines the procedure. That's all we know. I agree with those opinions, which were expressed here, that this law is unfortunately late, almost 30 years after the 1989 changes, so almost one generation or one generation after them. I totally agree with that. But why did this happen? Well, for a very simple reason: it was known as a thick line. In Poland at the latest, the record of the leading role of the party, after Hungary, Slovakia and the former GDR was abolished. Free elections were held at the latest, with more than a year delay in relation to Czechoslovakia and Hungary. In Poland, for more than a year of transition, the President was the founder of the martial law of Wojciech Jaruzelski, while in Czechoslovakia and Hungary the President's office had already been placed by former prisoners of communism Václav Havel and Árpád Göncz. It was not until December 1991 that the Minister of Defence passed into civilian hands, and it was in the hands of a man who was uncompromised in the times of communism. In Hungary, Minister Für has been in office since May 1990. In Czechoslovakia, in October 1990, former communist Václav Vack was removed from the post of Minister of Defence. In Poland later than in our southern neighbours, democratic forces took control of important segments of the state. While in Poland there was so-called. The big line, Hungary and Czechoslovakia clearly emphasized the issue of past settlements. In this respect, it is worth recalling that in the former GDR, people compromised in communist times could not And they still can't. In Germany, it is important to have a professorship function at national German universities. I'm just giving you one example. As regards Hungary, I would like to remind you that in 2012 a constitution was adopted which cut off the period of communism in Hungary, said that it was a period of non-sovereign Hungarian state and condemned communism. This is clearly enshrined in the current Hungarian Constitution. With regard to decounization or illustrative laws, the Czech Republic and Germany had much more consistent policies in this regard. So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, because there was a big line... That's why this bill can only be processed now. And it actually seems like it's late. But it is not possible under the slogan that it is too late, to lead to the failure to separate the independent Republic with a clear moral, political, but also legal censor from the period of the Polish People's Republic, because then we would have fuzzy state contours and foundations of independence. He spoke very clearly about this, stressing this, Minister Skurkiewicz in response to the senators' questions. High Izbo, I share some of Mr Czerwinski's doubts about these proceedings. I also share your opinion on these amendments that you have tabled by Professor Żarin. However, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that, while it is ideally possible to fully agree with Professor Żaryn, our fellow senator, with the power of this bill of awards, decorations or some form of distinctions... This is a domain. The distinctions and awards reserved for the head of state and this is described in a completely different law. Without doubt as to the principle of such conduct, I would have doubts formally as to whether such provisions could be included in this law. I ignore the fact that it would be a misdemeanor of the bill, and the bill is from the government's submission. So in my opinion, we don't have... Maybe I'm wrong. Please correct me. But in my opinion, we would go beyond the matter of this law. High Izbo, as a matter of principle, I will vote in favour of this bill. I think the government has managed to find a legal formula and a mechanism that allows this procedure to be carried out. I would like to point out that in addition to those 22 people who were members of the Military Council of National Rescue and who by law are losing military degrees... Other persons are subject to a procedure which is described in the Act, but also have an available appeal procedure in the form of proceedings before the provincial administrative courts and therefore have the right to defend themselves if they consider that they do not agree with the decision which was given in their case. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u315	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! So, whatever urn you're gonna sit in, Where? When? In what sense and face? For thy grave shall yet be cast away again, Otherwise, they will preach your merit. Yes, what have you done to men, Mickiewicz? Adam Mickiewicz's post-mortem life should be a mandatory reading for Law and Justice politicians. The poet is considered to be their Lithuanians, Belarusians, Tartars, Jews and of course Poles. His body was first buried in Istanbul, then in Paris, then in Wawel, where Mickiewicz had never been in his life. He was not in Krakow, nor was he in Warsaw. We can be proud of Adam Mickiewicz's work, but it is also very easy to corrupt. We know that. And I think the PiS could do it. It would not be the first stained great life story of a Pole. But these resumes will protect themselves. Watching the recent initiatives of the PiS, I could imagine the moment when the PiS amends the IPN Act and threatens to threaten anyone who, contrary to the facts, claims that Mickiewicz was a poet of a different nation than the Polish one. After all, Mickiewicz wrote Polish. Ridiculous? Of course I do. No one in common sense imagines anyone thinking of punishing them with prison for, for example. The Lithuanian poet, who wrote Litwo, my motherland, recognizes as his poet, and the Belarusian poet who praised the land with a new-born poet, recognizes him as a Belarusian poet, because Poles in Mickiewicz see a Pole, even because he wrote in Polish. But, ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, this argument that Mickiewicz wrote in Polish is only seemingly logical, because another great Pole, Mikołaj Kopernik, spoke mainly German and Latin, Polish spoke very poorly. [[He was German.]] To me, he was Polish. I know, but for you, many patterns are German. [[I think that's what you're talking about.]] These considerations show what face we are entering, trying to establish a government or political interpretation of history, especially when it concerns people who are already dead. Politicians, whose quality is to create the law applicable to all Poles, should not be concerned with the opinion of history, even this unambiguous one, and certainly should not decide on the posthumous removal of any military degree without even a simple trial, especially since decisions on this matter, necessarily, are selective and not universal. Why should the members of the WRON be judged posthumously, and the Members of the then Sejm who passed, even against the crippled Polish People's Constitution, the legality of the martial law, are not subject to such judgments? Is that foresight? Because today's ruling party is also accused of breaking the constitution. [[The hailing, the earthquake, we'd have...]] But let's get back to the matter of the bill. I will vote against this law and it has nothing to do with my martial law assessment or the WRON. My vote will be against politicians' usurping the right to decide on matters where politicians should not be at all. Similarly, I would vote if politicians wanted to determine the composition of Poland's representation for the World Football Championship. I do not recognise the right to decide whether a representative of any profession may be exempt from his duties if ethical reasons make it difficult for him to do so. Powerful interference in these spheres of public life quickly makes them a victim of inquisitors, not a field of action of historians, ethics or other professionals. High Senate, in the poem of Cyprian Kamila quoted by me at the outset Norwid's not Mickiewicz is the most important. It is a poem about such tragic and famous characters as Napoleon, Columbus or Alighieri, and especially those who have dug through their graves, unable to determine how to preach their merits. Cyprian Kamil Norwid with sarcastic sadness warns and warns against burying in graves to execute his judgment upon the corpse after death. If we accept this bill, we will make a very harmful precedent. The revolutionary logic of political power And PiS is a revolutionary power. Unfortunately, she will be tempted to cross the next Rubicons. Today you will remove the pagons of the WRON generals, tomorrow you may want to take Nobel Wałęsa, and the day after tomorrow you will agree that communism ended in 2015. [[It's about time.]] Unreal scenario? Well, two years ago, I'd say yes, unreal, but today I'm not so sure. I appeal: let us leave history to historians, let us leave ethics to moralists and churches, let us deal with what we have been called to and what the sovereign expects of us to improve the quality of life of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Let's pick the future with Kwasniewski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u317	You're Marshal Michael Sewerinski. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[We're about to find out we're responsible for the hailstorm and the earthquake.]] [[Rejtan, Rejtan! It made me cry.]] Quiet, please. [[A voice from the room: I'd do a stupid thing.]] Quiet, please. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u318	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[This is hypocrisy.]] I'll wait until this conversation is over. [[Hypocrites.]] Two important questions have been asked in the speeches so far and I would like to answer them. The first question was: why do we take military degrees from dead people? Professor Bobko was right to say that this is a symbolic settlement. It could be said that this is an act of infamy, of recognizing certain individuals as Infamis. That is the symbolism of this assessment, which can also be done after death, just as we consider certain people to be heroes after death, and we promote them, even military degrees granting them. So here's the logic. They're already dead, but we want to tell the nation that these are our heroes, and those are the Infamis. And that's the answer to why we're doing this postmortem and if it makes any sense. [[Ma.]] The second question is: why is it so late? Well, Senator Jackowski has actually answered that question. This was not possible before, because there was a Round Table arrangement on the basis of which the communists shared power, and it is obvious that they would never allow themselves to be considered as Infamis. So it couldn't have been done until now. I would even allow this far-reaching proposal: I do not know if this would be possible in the previous term. [[If it were, it would have been done by now.]] I am not in favour of a very literal interpretation of the phrase "thick line," but it seems to me that the specific silence of certain acts was part of the round-cloth system, although in principle I think it was a happy act for Poland, because it may have actually saved us from bloodshed. And that's the answer to the second question. As for certain people, by law... I guess we have no doubt about the role of the Military Council of National Rescue that the people who were there deserve infamy. As for the other persons there is a judicial road, it is possible to verify. Nothing happens automatically. There's an administrative road, not a penalty... Well, the lawyers who spoke before me said why a dead person doesn't respond criminally, we don't prosecute such persons. Administrative processes shall be carried out in respect of old administrative decisions, such as expropriation decisions. Perhaps there will still be many such proceedings on the basis of a law that will regulate expropriations and compensations not for long. So this is a normal road, but the court and she provide guarantees that no one will be unjustly deprived of it unjustly. So these few fundamental issues I'm explaining to myself. That is why I will vote in favour of this bill, because it seems to me that I am giving myself the right answers to these questions that we should all be asking ourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u319	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Mr. Robert Gawel. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in a difficult situation after the speech of Marshal Sewerinski, because you can say briefly: you will not add to the full. But I'm going to try to quote a few more threads here that may not have been mentioned today. Namely, the settlement with the Polish People's Republic and the discussion on this subject should be closed in Poland a long time ago. Why it didn't happen, we all know in this room. [[Guardians of the Round Table...]] Well, Poland is divided at the moment and we cannot say that even today, even if truths were discovered, which are objective truths based on facts, people believe it... Today people believe what they want to believe. And that's the problem. They are manipulated by the media and choose the content that is convenient for them. And what can we say about generals who are to be stripped of rank? The most symbolic figure here is undoubtedly General Jaruzelski, to whom and on this speaker, and yesterday at the meeting of the Sejm various disdainful moments were drawn from military life and career But somehow no one recalled a very important fact connected with the military policy of the Warsaw Pact. That's why I'm gonna bring it up from that bleacher. Namely the doctrine of the Warsaw Pact signed and accepted also by the Minister of National Defence, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, and later confirmed in the so-called. The 1970 attack plan assumed that Poland would be the gateway to the Red Army for aggression against the countries of the North Atlantic Pact. Polish troops, Polish young boys, who were to be used as the first strike in this army... [[In Poland.]] ...in preparation with nuclear weapons. We know a lot about these facts at the moment, also thanks to information sent later from Colonel Kuklinski, who even provided maps showing how this impact was supposed to look like, and today we know what the counter-attack of the North Pact was supposed to look like. Ladies and gentlemen, from Szczecin to Wrocław there would be nothing on the first line. That's what it would look like. The second wave would be the Vistula line. And here's the question: were these just war games that were assumed by military strategists in Moscow and ours here in Warsaw were patting? But did they, these grown men, realise that there could be an international conflict with the United States and the North Atlantic Pact and what would happen with Poland? And this is a very important issue when it comes to the discussion about General Wojciech Jaruzelski. So I think it's all very late. Poles can't convince them of anything. Unfortunately, this bill will pass without a greater echo. I'm sorry about that. 'Cause it's too late to be accepted. But I think he's some kind of justice act. Because it's about justice. So let's think about what is the Polish reason of the state, and what is not, when we vote on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u321	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a resume of a person I know very well, even though we stand on two different sides of the political barricade, on two sides of the political dispute, and I am very impressed by this person. I'm not gonna give you a name because I don't want to abuse it here... but I'm gonna give you my resume. Between 1969 and 1973 the underage of the Military Technical Academy in Warsaw, later in the 1970s, an officer in the 7th Division of Tactical Rockets, later a commander. A beautiful career, a really beautiful military career until 1994. I don't want to give you any more details so you don't know who I'm talking about. I know a man, I'm really impressed with what he's doing, even though we belong to different political backgrounds. But when I read the bill that we will be voting on tomorrow and which you will most likely accept by a majority of the Senators of Law and Justice, I am afraid that this man at some point later on by someone who, for example, does. He won't like it, he might lose all his military degrees, too. That's because that's how it is in this bill. [[That's not true. This bill doesn't allow it. Why would you say that?]] Yes, sir. This is a very dangerous bill. Therefore, as Senator Vistula said, not us politicians should decide who is guilty and who is not guilty, but independent and independent courts. That's where things are supposed to go. We are not from bringing justice by law, because I have repeatedly repeated it from this speaker and will repeat it again. The power is not given once and for all. And there can always be someone who will write another bill in a very similar way. [[It's true.]] And he can write in such a bill various things: the leadership of a political party, the management of the Ministry of National Defence, the special services of our country... That is because he considers in the justification of this law that persons who have performed the functions in question have embezzled the cause of the state. It's such a capacious name, it's such a capacious phrase that you can hurt anyone. And you guys are opening this gate right now, once again in this term of office. I don't know why you hate people, why you're so jealous. Under the beautiful slogan of seeking justice, which you have just said once again from this speaker... Actually, it's more like revenge. I just don't know who. Because if you really need to be fair, let the justice system judge it. If you have to punish someone because someone was a criminal or acted against another person in an unworthy way, you have to punish someone like that, put them in jail. You can't never do that. And I've kept to that and I've always kept to it. Put them all in one bag. And you must never bring collective responsibility. And it's not like you say this bill will only apply to a clearly defined group of people. Because already today experts say that this bill can also be, absolutely, such an element of pressure on officers who are still active in our army. But this bill has another very dangerous aspect. And that is said by really different experts; if you read, then you will see, it is not media manipulation. Experts say that this bill shows one thing and actually lowers or undermines the morale of the Polish Army. It shows that you will be able to influence what happens in the army. Because you can prepare a bill that will be those soldiers who are to defend us, to be our security guarantee, just to degrade. You can really beat 'em up. These are very dangerous records. You don't even know how dangerous it is. I wonder why this is happening and why I really hate you so much. Anyway, I'm gonna go back to the experts who say that no one in any country ever took away anybody after the death of military degrees. Don't tell me there was no time to settle after 1989. Don't tell me there were no law and justice activists at the Round Table... Well, it used to be called something else. Excuse me, I withdraw this phrase. The political formation which your leaders represented and which participated in political life at the beginning of the 1990s was otherwise called. [[PC.]] It wasn't like you couldn't account for it. There were independent courts and cases could be referred to the courts. [[June 4th was still there.]] It could have been done. Only today in this media coverage maybe you just want to cover up some tough stuff. Perhaps this bill, which was debated somewhere in the back of the government, suddenly appears because of the start of the government's ups and ups. Perhaps everything that is happening in international politics, in relations with the United States or in relations with Israel is difficult for you today, so it was necessary to cover this problem quickly. Or maybe the various problems of individual councillors or local government officials of Law and Justice today have caused this flawless image of the party of power to be simply severely damaged, so it was necessary to draw out a substitute theme and start discussing the real future of people. And not only about the future, but also about the past. And, as Senator Strictly said, digging into very difficult and morally questionable matters. I'll say it again: morally questionable. I'll say it again with all my determination... And I've been accused of communism before, so I'm used to it, although in those days I was young and experienced nothing bad that could have happened. But I would like to repeat with all determination once again: if there is a person or there are people who have hurt others or done something against our dignity, morality, then you have to judge them, I am for it. But we politicians have no right to judge anyone by law. And once again, especially my colleagues in Law and Justice, because sooner or later, there will be a time when your posts will be lower than those of another political party. We do not know what it will be called, who will take over this power, but the mechanism actually vendetta, revenge, retaliation is written very simply by you, is clear and clear. The only question is, is this policy that we practice and want to practice in the future, this policy? Is it supposed to be based on revenge, retaliation, and resentment? And is it in this courtroom, here, in the Senate, or in the Seym, to make decisions or decide who is good and who is bad? We don't have that right because we often don't have full knowledge of what happened. We can condemn events, we can make resolutions, it's true, but when it comes to evaluating people, I would be very, very careful. I'll say it again. 'Cause that should sound right in this room, because another similar bill is passing through our hall, going through by a majority of the Senators of Law and Justice. That the same laws will apply if you lose power, and perhaps worse ones will appear. And if there comes a completely new political force, which will be more extreme in its views, perhaps more populist, which never sat in the Parliamentary benches or in the Senate benches, if people come who have no political function but will be filled with resentment for today's power, then what will you do then? [[They're not coming.]] They'll come, they'll come. [[They'll be chosen.]] Yes, they will be elected in democratic elections. In democratic elections such strength will be chosen. And then what do you say? That it's wrong? And if they adopt the Law and Justice Act as a political party, then what will you do? But they will say: we have a basis for this, because you have adopted such laws rather than other laws. What would you say then, politicians, who accept such laws today? [[We'll think.]] It's a very dangerous phenomenon, and I'm keeping it that way, because you're moving that limit more and more. This line is getting more dangerous and it's moving in a really bad direction. And remember those words that fall out of this very speaker today, because they are not aggressively directed at you, they are not malicious, they are not today a manifestation of some kind of political struggle against something. Really, matter is very delicate, very difficult, and it also affects the misery of people in those years. Remember today's debate, because one day there will be a time when you will be in the minority and you will be speaking in the same way from this speaker. [[Applause]] [[It may be, but the Communists won't be there anymore.]] I'll be there. [[...but there won't be a commune.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u323	Please, Professor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Senator Kazimierz Wind. Please, Professor. [[He's just listening...]] Quiet, please! There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't going to speak, but after what I heard in the discussion, and especially after the applause that didn't come out on this occasion that I was going into the speakerium, I'm ready to stand in front of you and tell you what's in my heart in this situation. I am surprised at some speeches, some entirely, others in certain passages. One of the senators talked about how strongly this bill is related to parenting. And we know that parenting is a very difficult thing. [[At home, at home.]] Don't disturb me, really. I was the initiator of the Senate resolution on the need to build an educational atmosphere in Poland. It was February 22, 2007. You can read it, because it's kind of a different climate of thinking about a man, about a nation, about a country. Raising. Several years ago, it was already after 1990, even after 1991, I participated in the appeal of the dead. The soldier read the appeal of the fallen and recalled organizations and people who did not deserve it, to do so was a person in a green uniform, which is surrounded by a unique respect in Poland. When I intervened with your Petty Officer after the ceremony... Oh, my God, it's too bad to say. But the army serves the state. Who, then, is to define these matters in the military? Minister of National Defence? You're gonna say absolutely not. If not the Sejm and the Senate, then who? But it's not just the army, with all due respect to the minister sitting here, especially the military. After all, there are schools, primary schools, secondary schools, the whole public space building this intellectual and emotional space related to education. There was a law on the monuments of communism. It was a piece of work. There's a fragment now, too. I am not saying that this bill is perfect, I am not saying it, but I have no doubt that we are trying to build these reasons for these important issues in the best possible way, for defining the Polish state right, for naming and indicating patriotic attitudes. The Constitution of the Second Republic of Poland, the Brightest Republic of Poland, formulated an oath which the President of the Republic of Poland made about responsibility to God and history. And we're touching these things here, extremely important. I am not saying that they are easy, I am not saying that some of these doubts are not true, but that does not mean that we can allow ourselves to have such arguments that are not appropriate in this House in 2018. It cannot be that bad deeds will never be judged. It can't be like this. Senator Napieralski says it is not true that after 1989 there was no time to settle. Mr. Senator, well, maybe the Olszewski government would if it wasn't for the night shift. [[Oh, my gosh!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe it would have happened then. I remind you of the authors, the actors of that night shift. A difficult assessment, that's true, a collective responsibility of evil... But did you participate in the collective bodies that I would say would be a huge burden: the WRON, the Ministry of Public Security... How many victims? How much blood? Senator Rulewski was talking about it too, wasn't he? Therefore, I have no doubt that this bill is very much needed. We oppose the soldiers of the cursed and steadfast people who have mistreated Poland. I will vote in favour of this bill. And I urge those who have doubts to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u325	Thank you very much, Professor. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't really have any interest in uniforms because I know what people in uniforms were doing in military uniforms in martial law. The state of war was prepared by the army, the People's Polish Army, according to the general opinion of the Polish Army, because the general name was The martial law was prepared at the General Staff. And the army, headed by Jaruzelski, Kiszczak and Siwicki, led this martial law and controlled it from start to finish. We thought it was the SB, the militia. No, these formations acted as supporting, auxiliary formations, while the center of martial law and preparation for martial law was the military. I saw in 1990 because I was chairman of the commission on the causes and consequences of the martial law in the Polish Parliament, these documents. I've seen the colonel's signatures. 'Cause that's mostly what happened at this level. Undoubtedly very capable people who have decided to act in a very bad case. It's possible they thought Or so they thought. That defends Poland, defends Poland's sovereignty. I heard from Jaruzelski the slogan: Socialism will be defended as independence. So there was an inctum between socialism and independence. Of course, it wasn't just a password, because I think these people believed that they were defending this Poland, which was then, and they took these actions out of conviction. We who had a different opinion and opposed not only verbally, but also actively to this password, saw above all the services: militia, SB. But as I say, they were just performers. The martial law was prepared by the military, planned by the General Staff and implemented by the military. Of course, I won't judge, I won't, and I don't want to be a judge. These people may have been right about something I didn't share. But to me, it's unacceptable to take care of those who died in this way. For me, it is unacceptable to propose that those who have died be deprived of their degrees or to judge those who have died in the way that you are proposing at this moment. The dead, of course, can be spoken of. If it's the dead standing in this position, they're responsible. Of course you can say, you should be tested. For me this law is another, the second law was still resolutions of this type. That's supposed to interpret history. I don't need this bill, and I don't need it for my underworld colleagues either. We don't need to judge Jaruzelski and this whole group that is responsible for martial law. In the early 1990s, I publicly said that members of the WRON must be judged. Not to put them in jail, but to rip off their epics, to degrade them. But I said it when they were alive. [[You should have done it.]] And then it had to be done. I understand that there is such overzealousness among young politicians. The desire to catch up with the time that has passed, the heroism at a time when you no longer need to be a hero. Jaruzelski... I haven't told you Gen in a long time. Jaruzelski, I'm just saying Jaruzelski. Jaruzelski and his way of life... I'm not going to analyze it. Surprising sometimes, surprising to me. But unfortunately there were also people I saw, and their way was surprising. They were in Siberia or their families, and then they came back. Do they want to, or did they get into this system somehow? But of course it's not like someone forced him to be a general and be in this system. However, I also try to understand this love for the Soviet Union. I'm trying to understand. And I'm trying to understand that it was some kind of love. I don't think she was initiated somewhere in exile, but somehow I'm trying to rationalize my love for the Soviet Union. And in 1983, when I was in underground management, Antoni Macierewicz contacted Bogdan Lis. And what did he say to him? That the situation is already so bad that you have to love the Soviet Union so that this Soviet Union understands that we love it. Surprising. Surprising, but I understand. Well, he thought the situation was hopeless. And then he met me, yeah, then he met me, almost at the same time, and he said to me, you know, I have a plan that needs to be realized, because the situation is what it is, you see, hopeless. It is necessary to create a triumvirate: the army, or Jaruzelski, the Church, or Glemp, and a trade union, or Wałęsa. I blew up laughing, and then I said, "That's not why I'm meeting you to listen to things like that." I am talking about showing that the ideas for Poland and the fight for Poland were different. I believe that degradability should only apply to those who are alive, and I will make such an amendment. In my opinion, the proposal to do this to the dead is... It doesn't fit in my ethics. Maybe in the case of some of you, yes, but in my ethics it doesn't fit and it doesn't fit in Christian ethics either. Let God's judgment judge them now. [[They didn't believe in God.]] [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] The human court must suspend itself. This must be assessed and I am sure that this assessment of most of us is clearly negative, but I will not vote for a law that takes a step in this direction. I said, what are the next steps? Excavations? Deleted? Well, there'll be other ideas like that. That's why I'm proposing such a change in this bill. The second change I propose is, however, the introduction of a certain criterion. In addition to persecution because of religious origin and beliefs, I propose a nationality criterion, because what I read is not enough. So that there must be consequences for applying national criteria, for these purges in 1967 and 1968, for the state from which we have to explain and for which we must be ashamed, although it is not our fault, but theirs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u327	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the hall: They did not save Poland, Mr. Marshal, they...]] For the record, I'm telling you... [[Mrs. Marshal, please...]] Mr. Senator? There you go. The senator still wants to speak in the discussion. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please be quiet. Quiet, please!]] I will not duplicate my thoughts and recall the names that Marshal Borusewicz referred to, but I also do not want us to debate here in such a context that we acknowledge some features of God's judgment. We don't think anybody in this matter, we're working on a law on deprivation of military degrees, that's all. After dozens of years. I don't want to bring up the stories of people who have been here maybe too often called back. But I want, Mrs. Marshal, the High Senate, at the end of this debate, to hear the words of a soldier of the Polish Army, murdered on 1 March 1951 by Mr. Lukasz Ciepliński, president of the 4th Board of the WiN Association, a bachelor of the Order of War of Virtuti Militari, who was most often communicating with his loved ones, with his wife, with his son, but one of these flups directed to his subordinates, his brothers from the WiN Association. On 20 January, Colonel Łukasz Ciepliński wrote: "We all fought for Poland." Today I'm gonna die for her. This is our blood and your Son, you are his fathers. You have to replace me with the baby. They made me a criminal. But the truth will soon prevail. That was right, Mr. Lukasz Ciepliński. And maybe that's what it's all about righting officers right now. And previously mentioned by me, Colonel Jeronim Dekutowski, at the time of the execution of the criminal death sentence on 7 March 1949, 69 years ago, in the catholic cathedral in Mokotów he said significant words: "The victory will come! Poland hasn't died yet! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u329	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Konstanty Radziwiłł made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing: Jan Żaryn, Aleksander Bobko, Bogdan Borusewicz. I'm closing... [[I didn't fold.]] [[Senator Bobko didn't fold.]] [[Voice from the room: Rulewski folded.]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't fold.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal Borusewicz...]] Senator Bobko... [[Voice from the room: I have checked...]] It's a mistake in the notes. Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and... [[Senator Rulewski...]] [[I'm sorry. Senator Rulewski.]] Jan Rulewski. Good. Jan Rulewski. I will read this once again: the legislative proposals were made in writing by Mr Jan Żaryn, Mr Jan Rulewski and Mr Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, following the words of Senator Rusiecki, should no longer speak, but there have been a few points that I would like to raise during this debate. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was gracious to mention that he, as a deserving person and persons who are also deserving of the Solidarity of the 1980s, did not support or support this law. However, there are people with you who are closely cooperating, who support this law, even Mr Antoni Mężydło, who voted in favour of this law yesterday. This, however, makes it clear that there are those who support these solutions. Part of the Platform club abstained from voting, among others. Minister, Mr Biernacki. But I would like to draw your attention to one more point, perhaps an important one, which you have said is that courts are not judgmental. I have such a reflection: how many is it? And I'm looking for it in my memory. The perpetrators of the communism period were convicted by independent Polish courts after 1989? I don't think there are many. Here we can also refer to what happened at the Round Table and the consequences that we are so often talking about today, also in Parliament. Prof. Strzembosz clearly indicated that the justice system is the area that will clear itself and then we were in the 1990s and we know how it was. Justice didn't clear itself. And let me repeat: these judgments on these very often degenerate criminals were not so many. Some of the cases have expired because the procedures have been prolonged, some may not have been taken at all. It's a reflection at the end. However, I really thank you very much for this discussion at a very high level of substance, and I am certainly facing you because it is a great pleasure and honour to come to the Senate, to participate in this legislative procedure and to talk to you, to often argue with you, but to argue at this level of substance, in this exchange of views. And in conclusion, one more thing to make it sound like it again. This article. 3... because these were the words: well, what happens if another power comes in 3, 4, 5, 10, 15 years? Will she treat it in a completely different way? No, there were also people in the People's Army who served their homeland, and it was a vast majority who would not be subject to the rigor of this law. Throughout history after 1945, it will probably be millions or hundreds of thousands of Polish soldiers who will not be subject to the rigors of this law. But there was a group. I dare say that, and I'll use that word again. The degenerates, the people who had human life for nothing, human dignity. They didn't take it for nothing. We have such examples over the years. And I'm gonna say it again... I'm sorry I have to read it, but it's important because it was pointed out. Art. 3 says you're losing your military degree to a person and here are the reasons why it can be deprived of it It was the attitude of the Polish state which embezzled itself in the following manner. First, in her duties or in her commanding positions, she directed actions aimed at combating the Polish underworld of independence in the years 1943-1956 or, while participating in the fight against the Polish underworld of independence, carried out drastic acts. This is one way of misrepresentation. Two: giving orders to use firearms against the civilian population. 1956, 1970. In my opinion, this is clearly stated here. Third: being judges or prosecutors in the Military Justice Service or in subordinate units, they issued judgments in 1943 and 1956 against soldiers and civilians because of their activities for the independence and sovereignty of Poland or accused them in these matters. I think that's pretty clear and clear, too. Finally, in their duties, they initiated persecution of soldiers by virtue of their religion or background or by virtue of these persecutions. Mrs. Marshal, I answered that question here. We have studied this point in particular, talked about it, asked for consultations of lawyers not only in the framework of the Government Legislative Centre. They thought this recipe was enough. I think this law is really consistent, this law is clear and really restores this historical justice, historical justice. Indeed, the possibility of degradation is based on criminal rules, but this path can only apply to people living. Criminal rules must not apply to people who are already dead, and we want to give this justice. I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u331	Thank you, Minister. That concludes today's deliberations. I'll have an announcement, and I'll announce a recess in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u332	Message. Meeting of the National Defence Commission on the examination of applications submitted during the fifty-seventh Senate meeting to the Act on the stripping of military rank of persons and soldiers of reserve, who in 1943 and 1990 embezzled the Polish state line, print No 753, will take place tomorrow, i.e. 8 March 2018, in room 176 at 8.30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-07-senat-57-2.u333	Thank you very much. Let me just add that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 32]]
