ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u1	I open the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Alexander Swede as secretaries. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Olga Krósanowska, senator of the fifth term, Member and Vice-Marshal of the Second term of office of the Sejm died on 22 June 2018. In the Senate she was a member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad and of the Committee on Social Policy and Health. I would like to ask you to stand up and celebrate a minute of silence in memory of the senator, Mrs Marshal Olga Krósanowska. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon her."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. I also inform you that we agreed at the Seniors' Convention that the first point would be to adopt a resolution commemorating the deceased. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its sixty-fourth meeting on 15 June 2018, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Flat-rate Income Tax on Certain Income Income from Certain Revenues Made by Individuals, to the Act amending the Act on Conformity Assessment Systems for Market Surveillance, and some other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Education Law. In addition, the Sejm adopted a majority at the same meeting. Not all of them, but most of them. The amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act on collective management of copyright and related rights. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 50th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the Senate. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, third, fourth, fifth, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fifteen and thirty-five draft agendas be considered, even though the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose a joint examination of the 18th to the 29th points, i.e. the provisions concerning the termination of the agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Olga Krósanówska and consider it as the first item of the agenda; the Act amending the Act of the electoral code and certain other laws and consider it as item thirty-six of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws and consider it as item thirty-seven of the agenda; a statement of absence without further application of the candidate for a juror Supreme Court and consider it as item thirty-eighth of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I inform you that a group of senators from the Civic Platform Club on 7 June 2018 in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, requested that the agenda be supplemented by an item: information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of Justice on the circumstances and the state of the investigation into the death of Igor Stachowiak. I did not take into account the requested request. This issue is currently being examined by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which has asked the relevant ministers to provide written information on this subject. Do applicants still maintain their application? [[Yes.]] Senator, come in. Yes? [[Yeah, I'd like to justify that.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u2	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I would like to say that we would not have tabled this proposal if we had not already tabled a proposal to the committee president, Mr Mammothov, to hold a committee meeting on this subject, but Mr President Mammy turned us down and said he was gonna ask for information in writing. In view of the sound situation, written information seems to be far from sufficient. We have the right, we, the senators, to get information about the circumstances of what happened, what happened last year, and about additional cases related to the death of Igor Stachowiak. I'm from Wroclaw. This situation really upsets the people of the city. Everyone's waiting for information. We as senators should take care of this. There was a refusal to deal with the matter at the committee meeting, so we asked for debate in plenary. And I would like to uphold that conclusion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u3	Good. Thank you very much. I'll put this to the vote. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator, what form do you want to speak in? [[As a correction, because you...]] There you go. Corrigendum. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u4	Senator Zdrojewska is telling the truth. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] I didn't question anything. A senator's group requested it. None of the Senators of the Platform who signed this motion came to the committee meeting. The Commission did not know the platform's position and decided that in such a case it would... It wasn't Senator Mammoths, it was the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions that decided to ask the ministers for information. That's the truth. I didn't say no to anybody.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u5	Good. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's... Whoa, whoa, whoa. The conclusion... Good. I... [[What? We don't know what you're...]] Wait a minute. If I say so, everyone... I don't know yet, but if I say so, we'll all know. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Because you don't know what...]] I know, Mr. Senator. Take it easy. We proceed with the vote on the request of the Senators of the Civic Platform to complete the agenda in accordance with the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three Senate Rules of Procedure. This is a request to complete the agenda for information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of Justice about the circumstances and the state of the investigation into the death of Igor Stachowiak. Who is in favour of completing the agenda? Who's against completing the agenda? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. I inform you that 76 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 52 against. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the High House has not accepted the proposal presented. Would any of your senators like to take the floor on the agenda that has actually been adopted? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 60th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland. Should proposals of a legislative nature not be made, the vote on the first item will take place immediately after its consideration. Other votes on these other items will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Today, after the paragraph on the commemorative resolution concerning the Knights Olga, an hour break may be announced, depending on the course of events in our area. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that tomorrow, after the session is resumed at 10:00 p.m., we will proceed to the hearing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., we will proceed with the review of a point concerning the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, namely the previous point of the first paragraph. The law on amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws, the second point so far, will be discussed today after 2:00 p.m. I don't know exactly what time, but I'm sure it's after 2:00. At 5 p.m., or actually after 5 p.m., we will move on to the ratification points, starting at 15 p.m., and we will begin the joint debate on points from the 19th to the 30th. This afternoon we will also listen to information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. To consider item 12 of the agenda: the law on amending the Property Act will proceed tomorrow after 3.30 p.m. I inform you senators that, following the preparation of the report by the competent Senate committee, the agenda may be supplemented by a point concerning the Act amending the Act on the creation of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. I'd really like this point to be okay, I hope it will be. In addition, in the case of the adoption by the Sejm of an urgent draft law, a government law, an amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment, and in the case of the preparation of a report by the competent Senate committee, the agenda may also be supplemented by a point concerning this law. And if it is introduced, if the High House makes such a decision, then there will also be a vote today. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Olga Krósanówska. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print number 882. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circle, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask an authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you mentioned, Olga Krosanowska died on 22 June 2018. I am authorized to present a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on commemorating the memory of Olga Krósanówska. On 22 June 2018, Olga Krósanowska, a prominent figure of the democratic opposition and Polish politicians, senator of the fifth term, member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad and the Committee on Social Policy and Health, died. Olga Krzesanowska was born in 1929 in Warsaw. Daughter of the legendary commander of AK Alexander Wilk-Krzyzanowski, who after the war went to the UB prison where he died. Today he is counted among the cursed soldiers. In 1994 he was promoted to the rank of general. Olga Krzesanowska was a Girl Scout during the occupation and belonged to the Grey Troops. In 1952 she graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the Medical Academy in Gdansk. She was a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland X, I, II and III term of office. In the 10th and 2nd term of the Polish Sejm she served as Vice-Marshal of the Polish Sejm. In 1980 it was present during the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard and since 1980 it belonged to the NSZZ Between 1980 and 1989 she was a member of the National Coordination Committee of the Health Service. She was decorated with the Cross of Valor. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to authorised representatives of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Olga Krósanowska. Who among your senators is in favour of the draft resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] Thank you very much. We're gonna try the second point to start... [[Voice from the room: Now it will be...]] What's gonna happen? [[Voice from the room: This is going to be the fourth...]] We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the tachograph law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 833, and the report of the Committee in print No 833 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u8	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure dealt with this law. At the committee meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Piotr Walczak of the Ministry of Finance was present, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz of the Ministry of Infrastructure was present. As well as all leading Polish offices such as the Main Office of Measurements, the Transport Office, the Technical Supervision Office... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the senators who want to talk are asked to leave the room. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. There you go.]] ...Major Road Transport Inspection. There were also representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Police Headquarters, the Ministry of National Defence, the Supreme Chamber of Control, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Polish Chambers, among others. Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels. It is a law, in colloquially speaking, technical, adapting national legislation to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. In particular, this concerns Regulation No 165 of 4 February 2014 on tachographs used in road transport, repealing the Council Regulation of 1985 on recording equipment used in road transport and amending the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of certain social provisions relating to road transport, hereinafter referred to as Regulation No 165. Tachographs, i.e. instruments that operate in road transport, in large, heavy transport, record the time and parameters of the operation of the vehicle. Such devices operate both in Poland and throughout the European Union. What is the de facto purpose of this legislation? They aim to rule out systematic cases of fraud, fraud and fraud which are intended to violate the indications of such important instruments. Why? Because, by cheating on the time of travel, the driver's work in truck transport, we introduce a very high risk that a tired, overworked driver will cause a great risk in road traffic due to the great tonnage of these vehicles. The discussion that took place at the committee meeting was extremely substantive, there was no political doubt, there was no disagreement, there was no difference of opinion. In fact, it was all about supporting these changes. The interesting thing is that this law, these changes, were supported by all those who spoke during the committee meeting. So there is no doubt that the proposed changes, in particular those introducing a new quality check system for already installed tachographs, both analogue ones That's a little bit older technology. As well as the digital ones... These proposed changes aim to eliminate, for example, the ability of carriers to service tachographs. So the point is that people who carry out the carriage of goods must not be able to carry out the service of recording equipment at the same time. In addition, these changes impose an obligation on the Main Office of Measures... He will specialize in the preparation of certified technicians who will check these devices, both in connection with their release for use and in the course of their operation. Well, there's a little bit more of these technical changes here, but, I think I've made a very brief summary of both what happened at the committee meeting. There was a purely substantive discussion there. As well as the situation that concerns these 2 types of devices, i.e. analogue tachographs in older vehicles and digital ones in newer vehicles.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u9	Good. That's it, isn't it, Senator? [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may ask questions from a place that lasts no longer than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First of all, as I understand it, the main purpose of this law is to eliminate the possibility of manoeuvring the said device in order to forge, well, indications which would result from it. It says it's about social matters. So it's basically about the rest time of the driver who carries out transport services. And what it's all about... Besides, are there any other regulations in there? And second question. You mentioned to the senator in your speech that there were irregularities, that it was known. Was the committee meeting talking about the extent of these irregularities? Was there any statistics being presented that would result, for example, from the inspection of the Road Transport Inspections? Surely such statistics must exist. So for the High House to get acquainted... Is this a mass phenomenon, whether marginal or medium mass? I mean, we should have an idea about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. It's been a minute. [[Thank you.]] Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Me in the same spirit. It is primarily about safety, about working time, so there is no doubt that this is a good law, a good direction. But the question is... Because you, Mr. Senator, said that everyone present at the committee meeting supported this bill. Of course, I also support it, but I would just like to know if the transport companies were also expressing their views on this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u13	Thank you very much. Are there any more... [[It's so...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Wait a minute. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u14	Well, maybe I'll start with the second question. At the committee meeting, I noticed one of the representatives of the union of the carriers, and he was spinning his head a few times in different directions... [[Fun in the room]] ...but he didn't say. And so I'm thinking that... well, he didn't say. But a positive representative of the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels commented. So here's a positive answer. As for the scale of abuse, there was absolutely no mention of such a scale. Well, there's always a question of whether the scale represents the number of detected. There is awareness that the technology discussed here today is very strongly connected with computerization, and there is awareness that in order to manipulate the device, you do not need to physically interfere with the inside of the device. Using at least one of the many wireless technologies available, you can interfere And that's the problem. In the indication of these instruments without contact with the device concerned. That's the problem. But these are the technical aspects that, to be honest, were not addressed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u15	Okay, thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Are there any questions for the Minister? They're here. Is the minister here? There isn't. [[Voice from the room: On the way.]] He's on his way. Well, then we'll have to wait. This is a five-minute recess until 11:35 p.m. And then we'll see. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 31 to 11 minutes 35]] I'm reopening this session, ladies and gentlemen. Let me remind you that we are at point four. The tachograph law. Mr. Senator has already reported back. We cordially welcome the Minister Marek Chodkiewicz present in the Chamber. Does the Minister have anything to say about this bill, or... At the moment, there is a stage of questions for you, so that, anyway, I invite the Minister to the speaker. Senator Jackowski will ask you a question, but if, before this question, the Minister wishes to share his comments on this bill, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I would just like to say that this is an adaptation of Polish law to the European directive. We're catching up here just to keep us up. I hope this bill will help to improve traffic safety on the road. It's basically because you already know all the assumptions, so just so you don't prolong...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u17	Yes, sir, the senator has handed over... Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may ask questions, firstly, for a period of no more than one minute and secondly, concerning the agenda item and the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. That's all I'd have to ask if the resort has the stats. If not, I would ask for a written reply on the irregularities in tachographs identified as a result of the inspection of road transport inspections, so that we can have an orientation whether this is a fairly common or marginal phenomenon, because there are different information and such publicistic statements on this subject. So if there's a statistic and the Minister has it, I'm gonna ask for an answer right now. And if there isn't, I'll ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u19	One more moment, Minister, one more senator. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Oh, sorry.]] Senator Czerwinski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question strictly concerning the text of the Act, namely the issue of the entry into force of the Act. The Act enters into force 30 days after the announcement, and fine, but some articles only enter into force on 1 January 2019. One of these articles is Article. 65, a transitional that tells us what we're doing with the proceedings that are under way, is about withdrawing permits, etc. So the situation is that, actually, according to the normal course, the law will enter into force around August, at the latest in September, but we will apply it only from 1 January 2019. So the question is, why is this period... This is a rare design, because either you apply old regulations or new ones, not that you give such a long vacatio legis when it comes to applying new rules. Do you understand what this is about, Minister? What about this transition period? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u21	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u22	If you don't mind... The statistics are and are quite disturbing. I've got them hidden here somewhere... Unfortunately, I will not quote the exact data at the moment, but, of course, we will give it to the senator in writing. I'm going to say that there's a lot of driver interference in tachographs, which is why it's probably a digital shift that's harder to manipulate. So that these changes... There's a lot of that. I'll answer in writing if you don't mind. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, as my knowledge shows, it is mainly about preparing the technicians of the workshop to work on the new law. The main thing is that they can have training and be prepared for new training rules, because these trainings will be... This is practically a new profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u23	There you go, Mr. Senator again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u24	Mr. Marshal, I'll ask. If it were like the Minister said, it would mean that certain substantive provisions of the Act, the non-essential ones, should enter into force later. And they actually come in later, we have some time to prepare. But this is about a transitional rule. What's the situation, Minister? There is a procedure that includes art. 65, on the withdrawal of the permit to operate an installation workshop. This transitional provision shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. I mean, we are conducting this procedure to withdraw the permit to run the workshop until 1 January according to the old regulations, and from 1 January after the new one. Notice, this is it. In general, either old regulations or new ones apply, and here we have so long vacathio legis that from the date of entry into force of the Act it will be almost six months, and certainly five months, and we will have two periods for the same procedure, because it may not end within five months. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. It is the date of entry into force of the transitional provision. Either he should come in with material regulations, or... I don't know, I don't see any other options. Otherwise, we will have 2 regimes for these cases of withdrawal of the permit, until 1 January of the old legislation, from 1 January of the new legislation according to the proposed law, and this will be the same procedure. Well, then how do we reconcile?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u25	I'm looking... just a minute. Art. 40... [[In particular, it's an article. 65.]] Yeah, yeah, I know, but they connect... As far as I'm concerned, it was mostly about training, but since the senator's asking, I'll try to answer. Unless I get permission to consult with my officials, then I'd... Because I can't explain it. [[Maybe just in writing...]] It's in writing. You're welcome. [[That will also explain how to apply the bill.]] Because I can't do this right now... As far as I'm concerned, it was mostly about training shop technicians who have... This is a new profession and we are putting new tasks before them. I'll try to answer in writing. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u26	Thank you, Minister. You'll answer in writing. Are there any more... [[Me too.]] Oh, Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u27	Again, Mr. Marshal... Minister, Senator Jackowski just asked about the scale of the intervention in tachographs. The Lord answered that she is very significant, very large. You said you'd answer in writing. I would ask that I also receive a written reply. As far as I know, there have been probably several hundred such cases in Poland, of course those that have been identified. And it's actually possible that there's more of them as we drive, that's what we see on the roads sometimes. But it's not that big a scale. Probably a few hundred cases. I would therefore ask you to address this reply in writing to me as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u28	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u29	Thank you. Of course, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u30	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] That's what I want to know. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed... No, no, no, no, I would like to inform you that legislative proposals... No, for the record, the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senators Czerwinski and Flork. And... [[And Jackowski.]] Jackowski? Okay... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm just... [[Clearly.]] Straighten up! [[Senator Flork, Czerwinski and Jackowski.]] Three Senators of Czerwinski, Jackowski and Flork. [[Yes, sir.]] The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 832, and the report of the Commission In print No 832 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u31	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Infrastructure Commission dealt with this bill yesterday. On behalf of the Ministry, Minister Chodkiewicz referred. The Legislative Office has tabled 5 amendments, of which the first and fourth amendments were accepted, with the approval of the Ministry, by the committee. In the vote of the 5 senators present at the committee meeting unanimously supported the text of the proposed bill. The proposed amendments in particular adapt the existing Polish right to the 2016 Regulation of the European Commission 403 of 18 March, supplementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community with regard to the classification of serious infringements of Union rules which may lead to the loss of good repute by the road carrier and amending Annex III to the 2006 Directive No 22 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community. The new rules concern the classification of infringements in road transport. And three types are introduced: the most serious infringement . NN, a very serious infringement of BPN, and a serious infringement of PN. In addition, maximum permissible dimensions in national and international traffic and maximum permissible loads in international traffic shall be fixed. In addition, in addition to the agreement between the Polish standardization and the European standardization, a change is made to waive the criminal liability of the person managing road transport and to introduce administrative liability in this place and to increase the amount of fines associated with the violation of applicable obligations or conditions of carriage by road. This committee meeting was also purely substantive and there was no political discussion here. The vote shows that the senators agreed, after a brief discussion, to support the bill presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u32	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jackowski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. The first one is so... As I understand it, the Road Transport Inspection determines whether these violations qualify for the transport of dangerous goods. And so my question is: what are the consequences for a person who is going to be in such a situation that this clause will be imposed, that it is dangerous or... well, one of these 3 classifications concerning irregularities in the course of carrying out the transport service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u35	I don't think that's exactly what this was about. The point is that three new categories of infringement are introduced, in general infringements; they do not have to concern only the carriage of dangerous goods, but generally the means of breach... And these 3 new categories The most serious infringement, the very serious infringement, the serious infringement, will determine in the future, the possible future, the issue of a certificate of good repute. In other words, so that the carrier, as well as the driver, can, when seeking the carriage of certain goods, have such a certificate, cannot in the past have the most serious infringements. In a nutshell, to put it mildly, that's what it would be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u36	There you go, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u37	Who will determine the type of infringement? Road Transport Inspection, right? I mean the territory of the Republic of Poland. [[Are the police?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u38	It's not the only... These will be all the organs that are authorized to do so in the Polish Republic. Well, in the territory of the Polish Republic, a law enforcement authority, which is the Police, is established to determine irregularities, but the Road Transport Inspection in the area where it has such competence, can also do so. That's not enough. Customs can do some checking, too. There are more bodies that can do this, which have legal rights to do so. I don't want to focus here just on this transport inspection, because she's not the only one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u39	Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you said that the change was to waive the criminal liability of the person managing road transport or the person performing other road transport activities and to replace this administrative responsibility. Did the committee's meeting mention where this change came from? Was there any justification? If not, then I will ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u41	I've heard that phrase. And she convinced me. That this is about the lack of criminal liability for acts committed by someone else. In other words, the administrative responsibility for the actions committed by the driver is... That's not enough, there's an extra large appeal mode here. However, it is difficult to hold the carrier liable for cross-compliance with the driver.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u42	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Chodkiewicz like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you. I'll answer your questions if you don't mind.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? [[I...]] Mr. Senator Jackowski? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, You're welcome, Minister, to the podium. There you go... Oh, question. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about this catalogue of bodies entitled to find irregularities in the field of transport services. In addition to those mentioned by the Senator, are there still... And he named the Road Transport Inspection, the police, customs. My question is this: does the Border Guard or any other authority in this area have such powers? An administrative statement of this will indicate that there is evidence of this in some documentation that will remain after such a check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u44	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u45	If it were okay, I'd expand it. These are GITD, the police, the tax authorities, the Border Guard, but also the seniors who issue permits, may initiate such a procedure of losing good reputation or possibly punishing the carrier, manager or driver concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u46	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u47	Minister, I have a question about the mass control of the vehicle. Do we have the ability to control this? 'Cause we're kind of controlling the pressure on the axle. Has anything changed in this regard? Maybe just the description's changed, and the forms of control are old? Are we gonna control the mass of vehicles, or are we gonna control the axle pressure? Because the pressure on the axle seems to be easier to control. This can be done with portable equipment, and in case of mass we must have stationary weights. The question is, do we even have that weight?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u48	About that... [[Please.]] ...then we still control the pressure on the axle, although of course the carriers would like to control the total mass. It's a little different today. We're working on this with the carriers, and it might change someday, but today we're controlling the pressure on the axle. [[I'm sorry, just one thing.]] Yes. Please. [[You will not have to make any investments for this, i.e. build new scales at checkpoints?]] No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u49	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. On the one hand, there is this issue that colleagues are asking about, but on the other hand, this regulation is also a consequence of the implementation of the European Parliament directive, as you are in a sense asking Senator Czerwiński. I have a question for you. Do not regulations resulting from the implementation of this Directive impose obligations on Polish carriers which may be a kind of market game between countries in the provision of transport services? Don't they eliminate... How do you do that, I'm gonna put it straight to the pre-existing rules? Does not the implementation of this directive eliminate us from the various transport markets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u51	I don't think it has anything to do with competitiveness, absolutely not. As far as the level of these penalties is concerned, in Poland they are the smallest in the European Union. In Germany, the penalty for driving without the required documents can be up to EUR 200 000. With us, the highest penalty is 12,000, and the sum of all the penalties must not exceed 12,000. [[May I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u52	In a minute. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u53	Thank you very much. Minister, I understand that the city guards, because they are municipal guards, do not have that authority. That's what my first question is. And the other. You mentioned a licensing authority or an old-age permit. In that case, whether such an infringement may be linked not directly to the provision of a transport service, but e.g. with a mess in the database, a mess in the file? Can such phenomena also contribute to the imposition of such a clause and prohibit such a certificate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u54	Absolutely not. As far as the annex is concerned, there are specific penalties for specific offences and for their specific gravity. These are specific amounts for a particular weight. If this is a very serious violation, it is so qualified and it is described very precisely. So that they can't... Of course, the city guards have no right to punish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Then you're Senator Florek.]] Minister, in this context, I would like to continue with the question of Senator Jackowski's colleague. Tell me if this catalog... As I understand it, there's a financial penalty, 12 grand, as you say, is the maximum total amount of the penalty. And when the carrier commits a certain offence once, then the second, third, fifth, he pays constantly, is constantly fined or is sanctioned in the form of a loss of the certificate, i.e. the de facto loss of the possibility of providing a certain transport service. At which point is the loss of the concession for the provision of the service concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u57	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u58	When a particular carrier exceeds the specific number of offences shown here, it may lose the so-called. good reputation, which involves the loss of transport licences, transport services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u59	Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u60	Thank you. I will return, Minister, to these penalties, to the level of penalties, because it is important that the punishment is inevitable and, of course, to pay it. Why are you raising these penalties? Is the only argument that you have said that they are greater in other countries of the European Union, and therefore we also need to increase these penalties, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u61	No, Mr. Senator, the main reason for the increase in certain penalties was that the carrier should not be paid to act in accordance with the rules, because the penalty is relatively small, and he has such money for transportation that he can risk this penalty, pal him six. It was a canvas, a cause of punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u62	Minister, is this about EUR 3 000 of the total penalty that can touch or I'll tell you what I'm gonna say. It is not enough, however, to be imposed by the authorities in Poland? I'm asking because, according to my opinion, our East neighbors are reloading trucks. And it will be so that, of course, the Pole in Poland... i.e. everyone in Poland, not only the Pole, will pay up to EUR 3 000 of the total penalty... Yeah, he's gonna pay $12,000. And if in Germany our driver gets caught, he'll pay up to 200 thousand euros. Yes? So don't you think this punishment is too small?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u63	If you don't mind... Mr. Marshal, of course we would like these penalties to be higher. However, there was such resistance to the environment, it was said that here Minister Chodkiewicz is the undertaker of Polish carriers... Well, it's kind of certain... It cannot be said that it is a consensus, but these penalties are adapted to the possibilities, to the earnings of Polish carriers, to their margins, to what they earn. Yes, of course. [[Okay...]] ...you'd want more, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u64	I see, lobbying won. Tell me... Can you tell us what these crossings look like right now, as far as their origins are concerned... I mean, what countries do drivers and carriers come from? Is it really like I said, that in the matter of such offences, do drivers from across the east border dominate, our neighbors? Do Poles dominate? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u65	In my opinion, it is something like this when it comes to Polish drivers and those from across the eastern border. Which Mr. Marshal, so to speak, has located, because it is actually the main entrepreneurs who move on Polish roads... Because transport, as far as German or French, Dutch drivers are concerned, is relatively small in Poland. So that mostly it is those who have pointed out these transgressions who commit them. And these crimes are hundreds of thousands. The Chief Inspector of Road Transport, because from him we have the best data, finds such offences very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u66	Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u67	That's a very interesting thread, the one you inaugurated, Marshal Borusewicz. I would like to ask in this context, Minister, if there are no double standards here. Isn't it that carriers e.g. from the eastern Polish border, providing transport services to the Polish market, knowingly, with premeditated awareness of very low sanctions, break these rules Of course, by calculating this and receiving more gratification from the one who orders this transport service And completely different standards are adopted when this transport is ultimately carried out... when the transported goods are transported e.g. to Germany, Spain, Portugal or the territory of France, Germany, etc.? Don't they do it in a thoughtful way? The analogue situation concerns our domestic market. Is it not so that companies providing services in the territory of the Polish State also consciously, knowing these sanctions, exceed these standards, and when they carry the goods in question, for example. To France, is that not the way they approach it? So this is about double standards. Are you investigating this? And how can this possibly be prevented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u68	I would like to say that the bill changes the approach to punishing foreign carriers. We in criminal mode could not effectively punish foreign carriers, but that will change. The data on this is gonna come back to us. Well, today we don't actually have that kind of data. So that... However, the standards are and at this point we can already apply uniform standards to all carriers who are in our Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u69	Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u70	Well, that'll be the last question. This is a matter of changing liability under administrative responsibility. Could you elaborate on that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u71	Yes. In general, it was just that it was possible to punish everyone, i.e. Polish entrepreneurs and foreign entrepreneurs, because when it was in criminal mode, it was that foreign entrepreneurs slipped away. That's kind of the main rule here. But the administrative procedure also makes it possible to appeal against the administrative decision, doesn't it? So that this is such a slightly more democratic approach, that is: even though you have been, brother, punished, you can always appeal and the old man can effectively waive punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u72	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: Thank you beautifully.]] [[No one signed up for...]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Message. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions on the review of the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment will take place on 27 June, i.e. today, 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u74	Thank you. I'm declaring an hour's break to 13.10 hours and four minutes. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 06 to 13 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u75	I'm reopening the session. [[Voice from the room: No print yet.]] There's no print yet, so I'm announcing a recess until 2:00 p.m. Okay? 12 minutes till 2:00. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 48 to 14 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. In accordance with the announcement, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the National Polish People and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment. and consider this item as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Objection.]] Yes? Mr. Senator opposes... [[Yes.]] ...is objecting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't have to be Senator Jan Rulewski or any senator. In order to recognize that the working mode adopted in our House, consisting of an extraordinary review of laws, has become a rule. I'm asking the marshal to change his proposal in such a way that... [[Oh, come on, Mr. Senator.]] Wait a minute! Well, Mr. Marshal, I'm a senator... [[Oh, yeah, okay.]] You let me speak, and now you're interrupting me? [[There you go.]] ...to amend this proposal and refer this draft law to the Legislative Commission. This proposal allows me to present an article. 48 Senate Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u77	Yes, Mr. Senator, but not at this point, because I... Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. Did you object? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, no. I don't understand it as a voice of opposition. [[In view of the inclusion on the agenda...]] Okay, but please... Well, Mr. Senator, it would be good if you were more specific about your conclusion. It was imprecise and out of order. You didn't object, you just... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[I can fold...]] You can file such a motion later, Senator. [[Good. In that case...]] But that's later, of course. Well, you're in Parliament for the sixth term. [[Third.]] Third. And I thought it was six. [[Voice from the room: It's getting bigger...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u78	Mr. Marshal, I object. [[Of course, okay.]] But let me justify it. [[Of course. You can use the marshal for three minutes.]] I object to the procession that is taking place over this bill. Today the Sejm passed it, and now, after two hours, the Senate is to give it. It seems to be signed by the President today, too, but that's his business... [[Yeah, that's...]] ...and the Senate, Mr. Marshal, and all of us, is to make sure that the Senate is taken seriously. And that's the first few sentences of justification, first of all. Secondly, there is no government representative, Mr. Marshal... [[There it is.]] Is it? [[It is, it's watching through...]] Where? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[He's in the Senate, he is.]] Okay, otherwise, there's no representative in the courtroom... [[But it will be. At the moment he's supposed to be there, it will be.]] But there's no... [[You'll be Prime Minister, I'll calm you down.]] I see. There are no representatives of the IPN, there is no representative of the President, there is no Minister of Justice who runs this bill and has led to such a situation that the government must withdraw from this law cancer. I therefore object to the introduction of this law in such a way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u79	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to tell you, Mr. Marshal, and yours, that all our activities are absolutely in accordance with the regulations. That's what the regulations allow, nothing's broken right now. That's it. Then I shall put my motion to the vote. Who is in favour of supplementing the agenda on the item: Act on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment And consider this item as item six of the agenda, which is in a moment? You're welcome. We're voting. And I'm asking you to give me the results. 73 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 19 against. [[Voting No 3]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] You may report this request at any time, Mr. Senator. Are you filing a motion? You're welcome. In what mode do you speak now? [[Art. 48 Rules of Procedure.]] In what form do you speak? [[No mode.]] [[Voices from the room: No mode.]] [[In the form of a senator.]] Good. Please, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Half an apology to you. If I have already voted on your motion, it is only for this reason that the House should be fully aware of what it is voting on. My conclusion is that it should be done by art. 48, before considering the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, refer the law adopted by the Sejm to the Legislative Commission and consider this law after the presentation of 2 reports And here's what I'm doing. Not as you said, which is point six, but as point twenty-four, at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u81	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. I object. We are voting on Senator Rulewski's formal motion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 20 were in favour, 53 against. [[Voting No 4]] Senator Rulewski's motion was rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 883, and the report of the Commission In print No 883 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the Chamber: The vote will be immediately after...]] You're asking me to remind you of what we've been talking about. The vote will take place immediately after the end of this point, and if amendments are made immediately after the meeting of the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 27 June 2018 on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The High Senate shall approve the attached draft resolution. This is the decision of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Senators, the bill makes an adjustment which causes some of the criminal rules to be waived. The goal here, of course, is to defend the good name of Poland. This objective remains unchanged. During the committee's work, the Legislative Bureau did not raise any legislative objections. At the committee meeting, of course, there was a discussion that focused mainly on the opposition's motion to reject the law because of the lack of time to get acquainted with the material and because of the lack of representatives of the IPN. In fact, it was kind of a destructive discussion. [[What?]] There were also allegations that the law on IPN is in the Constitutional Court. However, here the representative of the government has put forward the position that the law, which is in the Constitutional Court, does not conflict with the law that has been adopted today. Civil law records allow IPN to fight for the good name of the Polish people. This path is more effective than the provisions in Article. 55 that we're removing right now. On behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without reservation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u84	It's like everybody sees and hears. And everyone heard a constant stream of complaints against the parliament, the government, that last year under dictation In particular, a law was passed in the Senate on which a political consensus was supposedly obtained after many years of work, and the grenade exploded, and it turned out that neither consensus was reached nor that law was hit. And it is not, Senator rapporteur, it is the opinion of the opposition. Government officials have been pushing for television cameras and radio microphones to announce that they have nothing to do with this bill. I'll give you two examples. The IPN said we weren't there. Although the bill is about IPN. This report will be discussed, and I think President Sharek will confirm that. And unexpectedly, Mr. Minister Whatever said no to the bill. Therefore, the question arises as to whether there is any government in Poland. Some kind of invisibility, I guess. Because who is the author of this bill? You have found yourself president to refer this bill to the Constitutional Court, although you have taken other arguments into account, saying that he is really behind this law, only that he must refer it to the Constitutional Tribunal. And now we have a situation, if not legal... Because at the committee meeting, Senator Mammytov did not allow it to be said, he limited more than mechanical discussions and proceedings over this law. We are not in a position to determine whether it is right for us to anticipate the ruling on this law when the President decided to hand it over to the judicial authority, the Constitutional Tribunal. My experience with citizens suggests that wherever there is something in court, even a Member, even if he is called the sovereign of the whole nation, has no right to interfere. So our reasoning goes to this: let the Court Even to this Court, even to such a Court, even such a President, because she legitimizes this work. Consider... fulfilling the will of the President, the head of state, and fulfilling the duty of the Constitutional Tribunal. The second issue is perhaps more important, political. The bill has caused an incredible amount of emotion. Abroad these emotions were negative, strongly negative, but in Poland they also divided the public opinion, it is an objective fact. I will not speak at this point on whose side I stand, but all this has brought emotion. And it would be good for those who have experienced these emotions that they have spread... houses, apartments maybe divided... It would be good for them to know why the Polish government is making such a violent volt, such a rapid change. Well, the interests of the Polish state are wide. However, as I said, the timbre of this discussion was not only that, so to speak, deep and wide, but maybe it was also important, because it concerned that there were accusations of participation in the Holocaust in Poland, together with the consequences, that I will not talk about it. In a situation where there was also no committee meeting The authors of this law, critics of this law from the government, senators of the Civic Platform made a valid formal conclusion, but, as I see, there is a PiS disease, so that everything that is unpleasant, which resembles scratching from fleas, limping in time space... Yes, Senator, we're sitting on this. Please accept that. In a negative time, as this law was still warmed in the Sejm, and already the Marshal decided, and now he has confirmed that it can be introduced, because the result is already known when it comes to the adoption of this law. Isn't that a negative time? And where's the sovereign who has the right to know why the government... what's the cause of this violent change, the violent twist, so to speak? Of course, it is right that Senator Zientarski emphasizes that your dignity, Senator, requires that at least your vote, for or against I think it's gonna be a vote in favour. Respect so that you can at least write a positive statement for this bill. We didn't have that option. Nor did the Polish taxpayer institution such as the Senate Legislative Office have had the opportunity to draw up any opinion, even on grammatical issues. These few arguments are in favour of not accepting Senator Martynowski's request, or the senator's request for the adoption of all laws and solutions without amendments. Yeah, no corrections. Despite the fact that senators were insulted, the Senate institution was insulted. It is regrettable to say that this is a voice directed at your address, Mr. Marshal, because the marshal is obliged to defend the correctness and integrity of this Senate's work. The opposition, although not only the opposition, because Senator Napieralski does not belong to the Civic Platform, declared constructive solutions, did not reject this project, wanted to debate, tabled amendments to avoid the other almost scandal, so that perhaps there could be consensus on this matter, and if there was no consensus, it would point out all the things that might lie on this shadow. Mr. Marshal, the work of your marshal, the work of the chairman of the committee, actually supported unanimously by the Senators of the PiS, above all insults us, makes us, this Senate, mute. But as I'm going to prove later, it causes such important matters to be mentioned in the article. 5 constitutions in which the government of Poland... excuse me, the Polish state, but also the government, is committed to protecting national achievements, traditions... The state has put up a white flag in this case. And that's why it's reasonable not to accept Senator Martynowski's application and PiS. [[Convince me?]] I've convinced you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. I didn't interrupt you because I want to be a cultural person, a good person and a well-mannered person. I didn't interrupt, and I won't comment. Welcome to the meeting of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Welcome, sir. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister wanted to speak at the moment. You're welcome, Prime Minister, to speak. [[Voice from the Chamber: What about the questions to the rapporteurs?]] Mr. Senator, read this and ask questions later... Okay? It's called regulations. The Prime Minister may speak at any time and take advantage of this opportunity. [[Voice from the room: Our Prime Minister...]] Your Prime Minister never used it because he wasn't in the Senate once. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[What's your prime minister?]] From the Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in the context of this law we are dealing with many years of negligence, many years of thinking habits in the West, the West and the East, but above all we are dealing with those opinions of the Western democratic world, which in a very unfair way treat the Polish issue, approach Poland, Polish history and historical truth. By taking this subject very seriously 2 years ago, creating new institutions to fight it, very often with historical lies, semi-truths, lies, misrepresentations... One of these actions was also the reform of the IPN Act. It consisted of several different changes, several different new legislative proposals; these include changes both in the area of criminal law and civil law. In the realities of today's world, in the face of many discussions, also very hot discussions, discussions, which at the same time We can see that clearly. They aroused interest in the Polish subject or, as it used to be said, the Polish issue... Because this is, ladies and gentlemen, a Polish matter. Honor of Poland, defending the Polish name is a Polish matter as important as the security of Poland. And we, recalling these new regulations in the field of civil law and criminal law, wanted first of all to stimulate the public opinion, the world to objectively think about the real fate of Poland during World War II, to think about the historical truth of that time. Of course, we must dig through 70 years of different mistakes, silence on this issue, and above all the narratives of much stronger countries, our neighbours, countries that imposed their narrative on the world. And that's how we ended up at the point where... Sometimes when I woke up, I thought I was dreaming. Well, at different meetings, a year or five years ago, I was asked to... Me, but of course pars pro toto; I also mean a number of other bodies that I was a member of. So it was asked that we confess that Poles were also the perpetrators of monstrous German crimes, monstrous Nazi crimes. This is an absolutely unbelievable thing that we have decided to oppose with all our powers. In addition to the introduction of new history lessons, lessons about the Holocaust, in addition to many cultural activities, in the field of culture, new museums, strengthening the Polish real, true historical narrative The IPN Act was also one of these activities. And in those few months, we've experienced something extraordinary, and I'm not just saying it in the negative sense of the word. We noticed that on the one hand, awareness of the Polish issue, awareness of the importance of our narrative, historical truth, which we want to apply for, for which we want to fight. And that was the main goal that we had five months ago, and that is the goal that we have today. On the one hand, this awareness grew, and on the other hand we met a wave of resentment, a wave of hatred, which, however, made many people in the world, not only in Poland, what is this historical truth. Because in addition to various types of twitter and online events, where there were attempts to amplify e.g. The statements of the Polish death camps, all the politicians I meet now, admit something that until recently was not so obvious: that there were never Polish death camps, that there were never Polish concentration camps... When President Obama, the American President, said the Polish death camps... [[Oh, he's overspoken...]] ...the Polish ambassador didn't react, just like when the head of the FBI... [[He reacted.]] [[Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, ……]] He didn't react properly... [[Right, right.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] ...he didn't respond properly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please don't disturb...]] As far as I'm concerned... [[...and not cut.]] ...like this situation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please, Mr. Marshal, I draw your attention, please don't disturb me.]] ...like this situation at the time, I looked very carefully, and I think that he did not react properly. Because the only appropriate response was to leave the room when the memory of Poland and the honor of Poles from the time of World War II was broken. The same was true of the FBI chief. And we've decided today. And we ask the entire High House to support us or to use the civil law path first and foremost. Besides, the editor of some Western newspaper will sooner wonder whether because of the IPN Act he will be in trouble at some point, in collision with Polish criminal law, but whether he will have to pay compensation for 50 or 100 million dollars or euro, because such a lawsuit can now be managed. Because these provisions of Chapter 6c, the chapter on defending the good name of the Republic, we not only leave in the IPN Act, we declare here that we want to lead Of course, through an institution that was authorised to do so; at the same time, there was a provision on the possibility of punishment, because it was missing earlier, the absence of such a provision blocked the real judgments of the courts. To real judgments in these cases, which will now be much easier to prove. They will be much easier to prove also because in dialogue with our partners, including Israeli partners, we will present this historical truth to the world together, with a very strong voice not only in Poland, but also in the American voice and not only in Poland. This is a law that has an international dimension and we must and want to respond to these international realities. It is simply that a mature country draws conclusions and can also modify its line. And at the same time I have full conviction after these equal 5 months often very harsh dialogues with our partners that we are not only on the right path to raising awareness, it has already happened. We are on the right path to something even more difficult, namely to carry out our demands that we must also not lie on the international stage, present misconceptions about responsibility and joint responsibility for the monstrous German and Soviet crimes, but, as far as the Holocaust is concerned, it is only the German crimes of World War II. And that's what these changes are about, and that's what these changes are about. That was the wisdom of the stage... For the last 2 years we have done a lot to improve awareness around the Polish case, so once again it is called. That is why I would like to propose to the High House those modifications and support which I would like to ask for, this correction, in fact from the point of view of the provisions, not so important at all, but from the point of view of the legal, legal, criminal reality, for our partners. It's noticeable. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] It is therefore also important in such a context that today we have this situation much clearer and we can reach with our arguments also other channels and in other ways respond to the irregularities that have arisen. There would be no such statement by the chancellor of Germany, the German Foreign Minister, also other Western European politicians, who clearly point to German guilt... That's what in the last 50 years has been clogged with the word "Nazi." You remember the word "Nazi." [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please refrain from commenting.]] I mean, that's... [[It's very inhospitable and rude.]] [[Yeah, I admit it.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[I'm sorry, but I couldn't help myself.]] [[Stop it, sir.]] The purpose of these changes is therefore... I'm getting to the end. Thank you very much for your attention, for having the honour of speaking here in front of you. Our goal is historical truth, and historical truth should not be shared by Poles. I know our fates are very complicated. A total of 45 years of communism It does not make it easier for us, but in the case of defending historical truth, in the case of defending what the reality looked like and what the reality of times of war was, in the case of defending Polish honor, I do not hesitate to use such important words. I ask the High House to support these changes in these circumstances today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u87	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, are you prepared to answer a few questions? Because we have a formula here in the Senate that answers questions. Yes? If the Prime Minister doesn't mind, you're welcome. Any of the ladies and gentlemen... [[There are questions.]] There are questions, yes. Well, now the senators can... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. I didn't finish, and the High House couldn't hear the committee's report in the form of questions...]] Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice away because you're speaking completely illogically right now. [[...very important figure, but here the Senate rules, not the state administration.]] Senator, please read the rules. If you're familiar with it, speak up. Who among you ladies and gentlemen would like to ask questions? The first was Marshal Borusewicz. I would like to remind you that the questions are only about issues that relate to the law, and that they cannot last more than a minute. And the Prime Minister, please take the floor. Okay? You're welcome. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u88	I'll wait for the Prime Minister to take his place. Prime Minister, I have two questions. First of all, what were the negotiations with Israel and the United States? And is this change that the government is introducing enough to improve the relationship that this IPN law has broken? That's the first question. Second question. Why are there no changes regarding the penalisation in the context of Ukrainian nationalism? Ukrainian nationalism is legalized from 1925 to 1950. There were different situations at that time, at this period It's real and it's legal. There was Poland, which fought nationalism, then there was the Soviet occupation, then the German occupation, and then we found ourselves in a completely different geographical situation, after 1945. First of all, he wants to know why it's a penitentiary since 1925? Is this about the moment Konowalc transferred his seat... [[Mr. Marshal, thank you very much, because it's time.]] ...Ukrainian Military Organization... [[It's time.]] ...from Prague to Berlin?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Now Mr. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I'd like to elaborate on Senator Borusewicz's question. Were Polish-Israeli, Polish-American, Polish-Ukrainian and worsening relations one of the reasons for the amendment of the IPN Act? And second question. The government probably monitored the world's public opinion, editors, Internet, network. What were the reactions and consequences of the entry into force of the law, which validated the wording that could offend the Polish people or Poland? And can these statistics be described in such a clear way? How many Internet entries, how many articles appeared, how many times did the Polish death camps appear in public space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u91	Thank you very much. And in this round as the last Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I have two questions. First question Would you like to mention very precisely what situation or what events and events on the international stage have led to a change in the government's decision and the introduction of today's law? What exactly happened in these relations, especially international ones, but also internal ones, that there was such a sudden and very rapid change? And my second question is this. Because this mode is very, very fast, and what would you say if you were Senator Władysław Komarnicki today, and Senator Władysław Komarnicki would be Prime Minister? What would you say, and how would you comment on such a rapid deadline, so quickly proceding this law in such an important case, so important to our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First to Marshal Borusewicz about these talks, the negotiations... I can say in this way: indeed, I myself have been involved in numerous conversations with the Israeli side and the American side, but it is difficult to call them negotiations, even in such a common sense of the word, because to a large extent it was a struggle between two narratives. Some of this took place as much as possible... well, maybe not in the light of the cameras, but remember that our team went to Israel, there were Israeli emissaries here, we discussed historical topics. For us it was absolutely extraordinary, it was not within our minds that we could treat Poland as an accomplice to the Holocaust. Our conversations, you called them negotiations and difficult conversations, were largely about how individuals could be blamed for the nation as a whole. And here we have come to coherent and unambiguous wordings, clear arrangements, including with the Israeli side. The Israeli party admits that it is not possible to blame the Polish nation, it is not possible to blame the Polish state for what happened, only a few, in individual cases. Of course, these are thousands, or maybe even more than thousands, of moneymakers, to people who in these terrible times have also shown their murderous, bad faces. And they were Poles. It's also historical truth. We know it was. However, from this perspective, I must say that these very difficult conversations That sometimes were also the exchange of some declarations, letters, statements, views, and sometimes were interviews, articles that ministers pointed out to each other in this difficult dialogue, in fact, a few months, as you asked, will lead to an improvement in these relations. Indeed, we want to present our position tonight, which will also show a serious explanation on our side of how... This is also for the future, of course, because it does not concern the amendment of this law anymore, and we are now discussing this amendment in the Act. But our interpretation of what would happen next. And the most important part of your question: do I believe that what we are debating today is what Mr. Marshal asked Will it lead to normalization, to better relations? It must be admitted that yes, I believe it will lead to this, because in this very difficult dialogue, in the friction that we have actually dealt with, we have marked our position strongly, raised knowledge and awareness of what the Polish matter is, historical truth about Poland, in an extraordinary way. That's just the yield we wouldn't have made by publishing a thousand books or movies with Mel Gibson and Johnny Depp. We wouldn't get that kind of benefit. And there will certainly be an improvement in relations with Americans, because here, too, it must be admitted that paradoxically this provision resulting from the rules of criminal law was not only the most contested, but it was also the most difficult to enforce, the most difficult. Of course, today you can say on this side: oh, you should have seen this coming. But... [[Voices from the hall: We talked about this.]] Here's what I'm gonna say. To be honest, of course, it may have been necessary to predict everything so beautifully here, but without it, without this difficult point, there would be no increase in awareness. As for the Ukrainian case, which Mr. Marshal Borusewicz also raised, I find it difficult to say here, because today we do not apply in our proposals... You see what they're all about. This part, I understand, of the legislative process at this stage is being examined by the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't even know if I'm gonna say too much, saying what I'm gonna say right now, but it certainly hasn't happened since 1925. The genocide in Volyn, which was an absolutely terrible thing, a historical fact, a horrible fact, still not enough stigmatized fact, a period of Polish history, a period of these horrible relations, was mainly the year 1942, the years 1944 to 1945, and not 1925 to 1950. That's my personal opinion. My mother was born in 1930 in Stanisławów, at Penance. I know this story well, as it were, from an autopsy. I am full of the sharpest words, words of condemnation of Ukrainian genocide in Volhynia, even in northern Penance and in the eastern part of the former Second Republic, but you cannot... In my opinion, the extension of this to the years 1925 and 1950... this is quite different from genocide. Senator Rybicki asked about the impact on Polish-American relations. I must say that the United States One of the 2 or 3 most powerful countries in the world, I hope all the time the most powerful ones have a lot of things on their agenda, and this case was not the most important, although it was felt that really relations and better relations would have been much better if not for these 2 records. Right? However, in order not to exaggerate and on the basis of the facts that have taken place, to show you that this was not of a fundamental nature, I will recall the agreement signed 2 months ago for the Patriots, i.e. For the latest technology of anti-aircraft shields, anti-missile missiles. It wouldn't be American approval if we weren't still treated by them as a credible ally. So it was rather a reality that we tried to face in order to open up these relationships as widely as possible for the next year, 2 or 3 years. Senator Napieralski asked about the speed of this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that we cannot talk about World War II, and especially... Because talking about the Red Army, etc., I understand, there are also SLD senators here, which is the heir of the PZPR, that is a problem. [[There isn't, there isn't.]] But the Germans... There isn't? [[No, there isn't.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: They're here.]] [[You made a mistake.]] [[You made a mistake.]] [[It's in the PiS.]] Well, I'm looking at Senator Napieralski, who, however, reminds me very much of the SLD. Excuse me, folks, this is what happened. In short... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In short, I would like to point out that it was a small digression, times of communism, etc. That's not what we're talking about right now. But World War II... ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I will only mention a certain fact which I will speak out about for the rest of my life. We don't even have well-counted victims. Because the last census of 1938 showed that the number of Poles, I apologize, the number of citizens of the Second Republic of Poland is 34 million 800 thousand, until September 1939, about 35.5 million inhabitants, the first post-war census of 24 million inhabitants. And we say, somewhere we read: 3 million Jewish citizens or representatives of the Jewish nationality of Polish citizens and 3 million Poles, 1.9 million Poles. I can't count these Poles. No one has ever shown me that these national censuses, the censuses, are in any way, in a substantial way, false. There are 11.5 million Poles missing. Let's fight for this truth together. We were one of the most affected nations in the world by Germany, by Nazi Germany, whose part of politics was the reversal of this narrative after World War II, and the teacher of shame of the Third Republic allowed this to happen. And we want to reverse this with this legal act and our actions in historical policy and we will continue to reverse it with even greater effectiveness if the High House agrees to this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u95	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. [[Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: Will there be any more questions?]] If you can still... [[Chairman of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki: Yes.]] Yes? Good. Mr. Senator Grodzki, then Mr. Rulewski. You're welcome... [[Mr. Marshal, can I ad vocem because the Prime Minister obviously addressed me as a senator of the Republic of Poland?]] It's about the corrigendum, isn't it? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u96	Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to point out that I am not subject to the IPN Act and I do not have to make a illustrative statement, so comparing me... or assigning me to the times of the Polish People's Republic is a little out of place. Secondly, the Democratic Left Alliance is a party that acted within the framework of the Polish Constitution, within a democratic state. She was elected to the Polish parliament and also did not get into this parliament. My question, the question I asked you, was the concern for our country, for our homeland, and you are very maliciously speaking to me and comparing me to the Red Army. Well, the Red Army soldiers were on our land and fought during World War II. We can have the whole historical discussion here, but that's not the point. And you haven't answered my questions with regret. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u97	Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I don't know if the Prime Minister should be standing here on his busy day, or maybe the minister who made this pate for us, but since you're taking on this odium... I'm not gonna mention Peterowicz and the PZPR anymore, because that's not what this is about, it's just... I have a question: since this bill was so good, it did so much good, why change it? That's the question. But I remember that under the influence of, among other things. This law has long been frozen by the United States Senate Act, the JUST Act, the Justice for Uncompensated Survivors Today, has been signed and unanimously voted by Congress, the Senate and signed by President Trump, although she has been in the freezer for years. [[But the question is, Mr. Senator. You have four more seconds to ask a question.]] Last one. What happened so quickly, in one day... [[Thank you very much...]] In addition to the media facts, are there any other indications?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u100	Can it be true that this sudden mode and your initiative indicate that you want to pay back, or actually apologize to the hostile environment for your Munich statements on the relativisation of the participation of the perpetrators? Second question. What rewards will we get, and what losses will we suffer from denying the possibility of criminal defense? And the third question. Do you consider it appropriate that politics can be an alternative to the fundamental values of the Polish state? Because you put it that way, it's the Patriots, and it's the Jews... And fourth question, last question. Is the internal policy... [[But, Senator...]] ...the United States should change the nature, identity of the Polish state?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Have you had three questions yet? [[4.]] [[Voice from the room: 2.]] Oh, that's Senator Slugocki. Just one question, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u102	Two brief and specific questions, Prime Minister. First question. Knowing that you have a lot of problems with the Minister of Justice and its subordinate officials as head of the Polish government, I am thinking here, for example, of the proceedings of the Venice Commission, the institutions of the European Union and even the United Nations. Don't you intend to look at the law in this ministry at least more closely? Perhaps you should consider resigning in this department? Are you going to take this up anytime soon? That's the first question. And the other. Prime Minister, you are talking about the fact that we should all fight together for the good name of the Polish state in this international context. I have a question: aren't you going to clean up with the National Foundation, which should help you and us Poles to promote the good name of Poland in the international arena? For now, the National Foundation is depreciating many communities here on national soil. Isn't it time to get this foundation in order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u103	Prime Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u104	Senator Grodzki's first question... If it's so good, why change it? Well, I was trying to explain in my introductory speech that the dynamics of the situation were just that this law in this form, including criminal law, did its part because it aroused such interest... Of course, adversaries can say: but also the number of Twitts or Facebook entries of Polish death camps... But on the other hand, among the various official factors... How many times have I heard from the prime ministers of almost all the countries of the European Union that there were no Polish death camps, that the press, which writes about the fact that they were, is an uneducated press and that such a thing should not happen. It was very positive. So, if it's so good, why change it? There really was agitation, shock, consciousness shock, and now we're at a point where because of these criminal laws... Now, there are about 80 applications from around the world in the D.A.'s office, so we have to look and say, well, we're going to be chasing somewhere from the Fire Land to the north... This would be less and less effective from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish state, which is why we are presenting such a proposal here. It is also true that this JUST Act appeared. But I draw attention to the fact that a year and a half ago, as Minister of Finance, I received letters in the same case from many centres. This topic was getting louder and louder, until finally it was voted out. My opinion on this is that we cannot pay for monstrous German crimes. This is a very simple sentence and that may be enough for the entire comment to the JUST Act. There was also a question of Senator Napieralski and Senator Grodzki: why in one day? Well, that's a very simple change, in the sense of two... crossing out one... It's all been discussed so much, in one day so many times it's been replaced, I think we can make that decision today. But of course it depends on the High House, on the Senate, on the Sejm. Senator Jan Rulewski asked about the relativisation of the case. I do not know in what context the senator asked, because to me this is one of the absolutely fundamental aspects in the whole matter, I can absolutely not agree to any relativization. You were referring to my Munich speech. She went in the other direction, which means she showed no relativization of the cause... I believe that neither the Jewish people nor the Polish people nor the people, I do not know, the Roma or the Belarusians are guilty as a nation of what happened during World War II, only individual members of the Jewish people who, of course, were weak... Although let each of us weigh it in our conscience and then throw a rock, because if we were strong enough to behave... It's not for us to judge. What I'm saying is... It's about how we would have behaved in these most horrible times, although we condemn today, I, of course, condemn all the moneymakers and these people. However, the word "relativisation" reminds me of here in the worst way, we must not relativize. If that's the way it's been understood, Senator, then absolutely... On the other hand, I've been trying my whole life, and as far as communist crimes are concerned, so that black and white are black and white are white, and there's no relativisation. About the case and what you said, also in the last part of your question. I don't know if I got it right. That politics shouldn't be in the service... not at the expense of... [[...the identity of the nation...]] Well, the way I see it, politics is supposed to serve the nation, it's supposed to serve... And I feel like I'm kind of in a service position towards the nation and the state. So if we have to take two steps aside today, then we take two steps aside, if that is what the interest of the Polish state requires. And is identity policy more important than state policy? I think there's one thing here: our identity and historical truth is a foundation, it's as important as - To some extent. Safety. Because if we don't respect each other, the others won't respect us either. And this soft power is extremely important in this context. Senator Slugocki asked about two things. The Ministry of Justice... Well, we're probably fundamentally different here, especially in the assessment of justice reform. So I'm just gonna say it briefly. 'Cause I don't want to open it. That we are trying, and I am very much in support of the reform of the justice system, because it is needed of all means. Suffice it to say that fortunately we have judged some Nazi criminals in the Polish People's Republic, but Stalinist criminals have not been judged. And out of hundreds of Stalinist criminals who survived to the time of the Third Republic, we did not judge a single one. Right? So here's the justice system... And then there were martial law criminals who also murdered my underground colleagues, and none of them were judged. So this is how I look at the need for reform of the justice system. What about the fact that we're having problems in Brussels? Well, the European Union is essentially much more ruled by the West than by the new countries. I don't know what proportion it is, but I think everyone, even a primary school student, will agree with that. And to a large extent, a misunderstanding is how people from the Netherlands and France look at the situation in Poland today. What do these people know about post-communism? What do they know about communism? They don't know anything for a good cause. And that's why... But we calmly translate yesterday very nicely from Minister Szymański, Ambassador Sados also explained. Let's see how it all... Well, bye-bye. And if we do, we're gonna learn to live with it because it's not the end of the world. The last part of your question was about the Polish National Foundation. I may say this: I fully agree with one part of what you said, the Polish National Foundation has and will certainly take care of historical truth as much as possible. She tried to do so, but she should actually get even more involved in the fight for historical truth. And if I could suggest to Prime Minister Glinski and, of course, suggest... I absolutely confirm that the Polish National Foundation is for this. Yes, you're right here. And she did some things, but she's gonna do even more, I hope, in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u105	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Another question, huh? [[Yes.]] That's still... Yeah, okay. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome. [[Yes. Thank you very much.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u106	Since the Prime Minister himself presents this project, I understand that this is called. Government project. I would like to ask: has he been put into circulation in all the ministries and were there opinions from all the ministries? I would also like to ask the Prime Minister if before that, when the solution went through, all the ministries had a positive opinion and no one... Let me ask you another question: why didn't anybody at the Ministry of Culture or anywhere else notice these obvious dangers that the opposition was talking about? Because it wasn't new. We've been telling Mr. Jake. I personally was at the committee meeting then, as well as a couple of people sitting here. The dangers that this will bring, we also said in the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Prime Minister, I have a question because you haven't changed your draft record of Ukrainian nationalists. I have a question: will I see my father's entire family exhumed in Volyn after I passed this bill? Because I will remind you that now, after our previous bill, all exhumations in Ukraine have been suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u110	Prime Minister, three questions. Don't you think the IPN Act that he was running and compromised himself? A lawyer, Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick What should lead some experienced, distinguished legal envoy? Second question. Why was the position of the U.S. State Secretariat ignored, raised by the Senators of the POs and independents before the Senate passed the law? Third question. Don't you think that there are important good intentions about which you speak so much, and the effects of the bill, which turned out to be devastating for Poland's position in the world, in Polish-American, Polish-Israeli relations, which, in good faith, I stress, were highlighted by the Platform senators and independent senators?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u111	Thank you very much. There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska asked if it was passed on to the circuit... Of course it was. This whole mode was maintained and the whole procedure was carried out in accordance with the rules of art. The second question is, were we aware of the dangers that this causes? Well, I'll tell you. It's also in some correlation with Senator Ziientarski's question about this kind of devastating opinion. I was just trying to show that I'm looking at this reality differently when it comes to actual effects. I judge these real effects positively, however it is, of course, in very difficult circumstances, a successful raising awareness of the Polish case. Under very difficult circumstances, because of course we were under different pressures, under different pressures we were under different pressures. But like these risks or dangers... If you asked me if 5, 6 months ago I realized this, I would say: I did not realize that the reaction of the world, especially the Jewish, Israeli, could be so violent. But if you asked me if I'd been through this again, I'd say yes, because today I know that the result of this difficult Red Sea was just to raise awareness of the historical truth of World War II. That's all I can honestly say. Senator Štark spoke of Ukrainian nationalism, but in another context: freezing exhumation. I am convinced that, in the wake of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, I think that this will happen in some time, I do not know when, because I have no idea at what time it will be decided It will also unblock these relationships, although I do not know if I am breaking too much of the mystery about our relationship. Prime Minister Gliński is in a very intense dialogue with his, say, counterpart and on the other side are proposals that, so to speak, unlock it. But it's something for something and the other thing for something is still unacceptable to us, because we think that the Volyn genocide of those years on the End should be absolutely condemned. However, it is indeed a very important issue for exhumation to take place. I am moderately positive about the possibility of reaching an agreement with the Ukrainian party in this regard, and not in years, but rather, I hope, months or quarters. Senator Zientarski spoke about taking into account or not taking into account the opinion of the Secretary of State of the United States Secretariat. I'll answer briefly, though maybe harshly: no one will write to us. This is our sovereign decision. That's when we made that decision, today we make that decision, and it's just that the U.S. Department of... We like this department very much, this is our very important ally, but it is here and in the Sejm that decisions are made on what Polish legal acts will be. As for the devastating effects, I agree, but provided that we understand the word "crushing." I think you understand them pejoratively, and maybe it's less understanding. . as devastating for negative opinions about Poland. Indeed, this is the result of this law, that it plowed the awareness of many experts, many historians. And that's the positive part of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u113	Senator Aleksander Bobko, you're welcome. How many more questions, Prime Minister? Three? Four? Six? Three, right? Good. Then we close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u114	Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for this visit and for this conversation, because she, I would say, puts the Senate in the right place. We've had this sense of marginalization here several times or that things are happening too fast. Thank you so much for this important conversation. [[No, it didn't happen...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I would ask you not to comment on what your colleagues have said, because this is really... this is very unelegant, Mr. Marshal. I ask you to refrain from these comments, really. This is the third or fourth time I've paid your attention.]] But using just... [[Why did you become so active in connection with this bill?]] ...on this special occasion and on the basis of the seriousness of this discussion, I would like to ask you a question which, I think, is actually very much at heart for each of us. And that's what our voters are saying. It appeared here, there was this thread of the bill... [[Senator, ask me a question, because the minute has passed. Question, please.]] Okay, here's the question. What's the connection between what we're doing today, an amendment to the bill, and the United States Congress' law on free property? I would ask you very much to elaborate on this, because... I think we all share the Prime Minister's view...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u115	I understand, Senator. There's already been an answer to that question, but the Prime Minister... [[How does this affect our diplomatic relations? You mean that bill?]] Good. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u116	Mr. Marshal, Prime Minister, if you don't mind... I think that among those who are here in this Chamber, you will not find anyone who would like to be told wrong about Poland and yet, God forbid, to put it mildly, history has been twisted. That follows, Prime Minister, my question. Will you, as Prime Minister and also as historian, fight with the same determination in Poland, you can say, the market, here in Poland, with the untruth of history about people and events, with the untruth that appears in Poland? I am not talking about the truth of what group, whether it be the Law and Justice or the Civic Platform, but I would like you to declare, Prime Minister, if it is possible that with the same determination the Prime Minister will fight for the historical truth in Poland. That's the first question. And the other. The Prime Minister said about the law that entered into force, that at meetings with representatives of the European Union countries you learned... that there were a lot of questions, or actually statements concerning Polish camps. And that you, as Prime Minister, are surprised by that. Was one of the elements of this bill also in your opinion to hear these words from the prime ministers of government, or was it just a coincidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u118	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I would just ask you to clarify a contradiction. On the one hand, Mr. Marshal Karczewski, announcing you, presented this as an exceptional event. It's true, it's... [[No.]] ...a special event. Since I've been a senator for seven years, the Prime Minister has actually been speaking in the Senate for the first time. On the other hand, you said that what we're doing today, what we're trying to do, is a meaningless correction, it's a simple deletion of two sentences. How is it that the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic, despite his many responsibilities, engages in a very simple, meaningless correction, which consists in deleting two sentences? If you could explain this to me, I would be extremely obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u119	Thank you. And the last question you ask is Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u120	Thank you kindly. I, too, would like to thank you for your presence and your willingness to answer questions, and many questions. I have one simple question: who states the historical truth? You're very strong about it. Does he say that? In our territory I.P.N.? Do you speak of historical truth as you, as a specialist, understand it? Because I think historical truth isn't as simple as that. The law of gravity. It's probably some kind of consensus of specialists, so it's probably not something objectively tangible with experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u121	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u122	In the context of Senator Bobka's question, I can only say once again that part of the international public discussion which concerns any payment by Poles for property free of charge... This is a thought that is completely alien to me. I think that Poles should not be responsible for all these great losses, and it is not only losses in the population. 11 or 10 million people died, we don't know that. But also material losses. After World War II, Poland was stripped of factories, from technological lines, from various types of investments. Material, residential, infrastructure was destroyed. I'm as far away from connecting these cases as possible. I think if there's an argument, why shouldn't we absolutely... I hope the Senate speaks with one voice. It would be the giggle of history and the victory of the criminals from beyond the grave, if we, the country that lost the most... After the Jewish nation, we must have suffered the greatest sacrifice. We were to be destroyed. Generalplan Ost, small and large, assumed that 85% would be murdered Poles. It's written in the General Eastern Plan. That's what the Germans wanted to do with the Poles. And now we're supposed to be responsible for what they wanted to do to us? I don't think there's any incti between the two. The struggle for historical truth, which you referred to in the last question, Senator Wach, is extremely important. The point is not to let such questions arise in people's minds. Senator Czarnobaj asked if we would fight with the same determination for historical truth in other areas. With my life, I certify that it is. Well, that's... [[Lech Wałęsa, too...]] Please? [[Oh, Lech Wałęsa, you'll be...]] Yeah, Lech Wałęsa, too. [[Yeah, yeah. Everyone...]] Lech Wałęsa, too, by all means. For 30 years, since my friends from the underworld, from Solidarity, they planted suspicions in me first, and then some knowledge... Yeah, I'm afraid so. I want to tell you that when there was a Radom celebration, I mentioned Mr. Jack Curon. As there was a celebration in Gdansk, I mentioned Senator Borusewicz, although of course we are on different political sides. I'm trying as hard as I can to find the truth... Unfortunately, in the times of the Third Republic there was too much tilt towards such a post-communist interpretation of history. I, of course, am on a completely different side. I'm sorry for your reflection here, but I'll mention that the Braveheart movie said that history was written by those who hanged heroes. But there is another phrase: history is written by the winners. Us, i.e. My political formation, Solidarity Fighting, we weren't winners. We weren't at the Round Table at all. In the 1990s, we were marginalized. Of course, we didn't write history. It was written by post-communists with a part of the environment of Gazeta Wyborcza. Today this narrative is fortunately changed, at least in part. I'm sure I'll fight for the historical truth with all my strength. The senator asked if it was a by-product or a deliberate effect. It is about confirming and talking with various prime ministers and politicians about the definition of Polish death camps. I will honestly say that rather a by-product in the sense that I did not expect such a violent discussion in the international arena. While I was making an argument... Well, imagine that in the presence of the President of the United States there are statements about the Polish death camps or that the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung or Die Welts writes about the Polish death camps. In situations like this, everyone was violently denying it. Today, compared to what was six months ago, awareness about the formulation of the Polish SS or the Polish Gestapo, which was not there, is enormous. And you all have to... Everyone, I hope, admits that this is a certain yield, a certain advantage of this law, although its by-product, not a very intentional one. That's the truth. Senator Libicki says whether the correction or... There's no contradiction here, Senator. It's been a dragonfly and ground in public space for six months. Right? The amendment is very simple in the legislative sense and the subject matter is the deletion of 2 articles. 55a and Article 55a The entire section on civil liability, section 6c, stays because there is the defence of the good name of the Republic, the defence of the good name of the Polish state. So I don't see this contradiction, although from a purely logical point of view I understand your voice, believe me. I think that's how we've discussed it over the last five months, that... there's no abuse on our side. The hardest question, I'll admit, is that you asked Senator Wach because he asked who would find this historical truth. I have already partially responded to them, although of course you can write a doctorate on this subject. Mr. Senator, I don't know your views exactly or hardly at all, honestly, but... so that maybe we're different here. I've told you a little bit about who's writing this story. Today in the sense of so deep, so spiritual... I believe that the truth is one, that there are no different truths and there is no relativization of the truth, but of course I am not naive and I know what it looks like to work out historical truth, what it looked like especially in times more distant to us. Maybe I'll talk about it on the most brutal example, because from the time of World War II, which I've already used. In a way, there will also be an answer to Senator Rulewski's previous question. Jews very often or relatively often, or at least this happens, talk about bad Poles, and they hardly talk about Germans. My friends who live today in the United States, Israel, and deal with Jewish issues, once very neatly highlighted it: a Jew who encountered a German during World War II was a dead Jew Because it was basically that, with some exceptions, the Jew who met the German in his way, stopped living, so he wouldn't say anything to anyone, his family wouldn't testify about anything, and the Jew who met the Polish family could survive had a chance to survive. And hundreds of thousands And I believe that a million or over a million Poles saved the Jews. It is based on the scientific work of Gunnar Paulsson, a Swedish-Canadian historian who presented detailed studies on Warsaw... Extrapolating the size of the population of Warsaw into the population living in the whole of the Republic, it can be concluded that it helped Jews hundreds of thousands, or perhaps even more than a million Poles. And in turn the number of these moneymakers in Warsaw was defined by the number of 2,3 thousand. Well, let's multiply it times 20. It's gonna be 30 and 40 grand. Forty grand too much, but... well, which one of us can tell us how he'd behave in the Second War? Bottom line, I'd say yes. A Jew who was murdered by a German will never tell the truth of this moment, these terrible times. And this German survived and then he was then e.g. Mayor of Sylt. Yes? A war criminal... 6 m from my grandfather's grave there are gravestones on Wólka Węglowa, such vertical obelisks with names of Germans. There was the name of Jürgen Stroop, who was sitting in a cell with Kazimierz Mozarski. You know who it was. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Until someone noticed... And at least his name was eviscerated. The names of such criminals, extreme criminals were on... It's like Adolf Hitler's name or Himmler's name was in there. And in Flossenbürg, the name of Wilhelm Canaris is still visible today as one who fought for dignity, freedom and law. They wrote their story. So your question is about the deepest issue, and probably people will argue about it until the end of humanity, but I want the one truth that's out there, fighting. And I believe... For thirty or even more years I've been doing this with dedication and honesty. Because the answer to your question, who states the historical truth, is extremely difficult, but the historical truth is and we must strive for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u123	Thank you. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to this moment... I understand that at the moment the senators may ask from a place of no more than a minute of questioning to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Minute questions. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u124	To the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority. Mr. Senator, why wasn't there a committee meeting, and also now... [[Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki leaves the Chamber]] [[Applause]] ...and now there are no representatives of the IPN, the President's law firm and the Minister of Justice? Were they invited?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u125	Mr. Marshal, I am unable to answer that question, but there is a government representative present so that he can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u126	Good. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u127	Did the committee present the data that would show, in so far as the use of the phrase "Polish death camps" and the accusation of Poles about the Holocaust's guilt increased after the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u128	As far as I can recall, that was the question, but there was no answer. This topic has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u129	Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u130	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you this. When we were debating this bill in February, Senator Klich, president of the Civic Platform Club, called for this discussion to be postponed because a statement from the U.S. Department of State came forward, which was in a very sharp tone. Don't you think that today's work on amending this bill is the implementation of this postulate that Senator Klich was making... I don't remember whether it was January or February, but when we were debating this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u131	Mr. Senator, I don't think so. It seems to me that after the Prime Minister's speeches, any doubts about why we are debating this today are probably resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u132	Senator Borusewicz, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u133	Mr Senator, the Prime Minister has spoken of 80 applications for prosecution which have been submitted in connection with the bill, on the basis of this bill. What will happen to these conclusions? Is there a transitional provision that determines what will happen to these proposals? Maybe it's somewhere else, but I don't see that rule in the introduction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u134	Okay, thank you very much. [[Any more questions? Answer me, right?]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u135	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I think these proposals are going to be subject to a bill that we're going to... well, we're going to say so. [[Transitional...]] I have not seen any transitional provisions, I have not heard of any, so that I believe that this law will apply and if these proposals are in this law, they will be implemented from this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u136	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But... But this... But, ladies and gentlemen... [[There must be a transitional provision...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Conclusions... requests for consideration.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not having a discussion or even a dialogue, just a question and an answer. [[I will, of course, ask that question to the Minister.]] But you can ask, Mr. Marshal, any question you ask, it is, and it will be. Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voices from the room: More questions!]] Well, I don't... Ladies and gentlemen, I... [[Voices from the room: We signed up.]] [[Come on, secretary!]] [[But it's written down, it's all written down.]] [[He's getting lost...]] [[Leszek Czarnobaj.]] Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. Well, the other one, and I'm already at six. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There you go. [[Thank you for seeing me.]] You're welcome, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u137	Mr. Senator, I have two questions. The first one concerns your statement. You told me about the committee meeting that the discussion was destructive. I was very intrigued by this. Could you tell me what this destruction was all about? That's the first question. And the second, concerning the formal side. When did you get this bill as members of the committee? That's one thing. And were there any opinions of the historical institutes... [[Voice from the Hall: Institute of National Remembrance.]] ...Institute of National Remembrance? Have you received any opinions other than, as I understand it, a political opinion that this should be adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u138	Thank you. And who else asks the question? Mr. Senator Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u139	Senator rapporteur, there was also a discussion at the committee meeting about this Ukrainian aspect, which is not part of this law, and which is, as I understand it, very important. [[Yes.]] Can you tell us why this cezure of penalization of Ukrainian nationalism since 1925? Why the 1925?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u140	Well, that's a question you've already asked the Prime Minister, Mr. Marshal. I remember that. [[But the Prime Minister didn't answer.]] He answered very carefully, Mr. Marshal. Let's go through the transcripts. He really answered, I heard him. But you're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u141	I'm answering Senator Blackbay's question. It was destruction. I think so because the majority of this committee meeting was dictated by Senator Rulewski, Senator Borusewicz, Senator Marek Borowski... Sorry, not Mark Borowski, just Senator Napieralski... [[Gregory.]] ...Grzegorz Napieralski, I'm sorry. On several occasions, the president was called upon to adopt a formal proposal to postpone the debate on this law. I believe that it has been destructive to discuss these proposals several times for various reasons. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yet... [[I asked two questions.]] Yeah, yeah. About whether there were any opinions... [[When did you get the footage?]] I think we got it together, all at about the same time, because on the Senate website... [[Not more or less, but they all got it at the same time.]] They all got hit at the same time. I didn't get it before. [[The Internet doesn't separate...]] It seems to me that everyone could also get acquainted with interviews that were in circulation. Take an interview with the Minister of Justice, Ziobra, who mentioned these elements that should be improved. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. I'm in corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u142	But now Senator Augustine. [[Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode, I would ask...]] Well, there you go, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u143	Senator, rapporteur, I have submitted an application in accordance with the rules of procedure... [[I don't deny it.]] ...so don't call my destructive motion. [[It seems to me that compliance can be destructive.]] No, I disagree, I protest.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u144	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, we're not having a dialogue right now, we're just having questions and answers. Let's not comment on the answers, because no one's commenting on the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not comment on the answer. Question, answer. That's the formula. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u145	Mr. Senator, the bill we're updating is being amended because it triggered, as the Prime Minister said, such and not other international reactions. Did the committee present any views of stakeholders, our allies, our friends who had spoken on this matter the previous time? Were such opinions presented now, or will we hear again from the Prime Minister, that we did not expect such a sharp reaction? Do we know these reactions today?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u146	No, no such opinions were presented. [[I get it. We're risking it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u147	Thank you very much. [[Leszek Czarnobaj.]] Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u148	Mr. Marshal, once again, I would like to clarify this question. I'm not asking about the possibility of reading interviews or other comments. No, that's not what I'm asking, I'm asking, when... Well, let me get this straight: when did the senator get his first insight into this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u149	But, Senator, you're asking the same question again. Thank you. [[But I'd like to get an answer.]] I'm overruled because it's already been done. Senator Libicki. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like an answer.]] But, Mr. Senator, there's a question... [[...and there's no answer.]] ...and there's an answer. Good. How about... Senator Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u150	Mr. Senator... [[Tell me she didn't leave.]] This law was when we were debating it in January, and now It has some two components. In my speech, I called it... I was talking about the composition, let's call it German and Ukrainian. Today, we are retreating from what caused the stir in the United States, Israel, but we leave the Ukrainian part behind. I'd like to ask... Because President Kaczyński has a word for it. When he described the Polish state before 2015, he said that it was weak against the strong and strong against the weak. Or as we look at these changes, we're changing what's going on with Israel, the United States... Isn't it a little bit like this that we go back to someone who's strong and someone who's weak, let's just stay and jump on him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u151	Mr. Senator, I don't take it that way. I believe that this change, as the Prime Minister said, concerns, for example, a slight change. that in a way we should not lose our authority. If we pursue three years in prison and find ourselves not effective, then the authority of Poland will suffer. And that's why this change is beneficial.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u152	Does anyone else want to ask a question? [[You can't see...]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Michał Dworczyk, was authorised to present the position of the government during the work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Good. But there may be questions, so... they are. You're welcome, Minister, to approach the speaker. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u153	Minister, the first question: what about these 80 proposals that have been submitted under the current IPN Act? There's no transitional provision. So what's next? Will they be conducted under that law, or according to an amendment that withdraws from criminalisation? That's the first line. Two. I would like you to complete the answer to my question from the committee meeting on the Ukrainians. You're well aware of this problem. Why and why 1925 in the penalization of Ukrainian nationalism in this law... Where did he come from? What is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u154	Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about the fruits of this bill, in my opinion, a bad bill, which has brought many losses. The Prime Minister in his speech, looking for the positives and good effects of the bill, said that it has deeply overshadowed the public and public awareness in the world, and I quote today's statement The law is a fight for the truth. And these achievements were on the side of the positive effects of the bill. And what are the losses, according to the Minister, of what adverse effects did this bill have for several months? How would you characterize them and segregate them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u156	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u157	I'm just gonna straighten it out. Minister, has the government agreed with the President on this matter because the bill is being amended while the Court has not completed its work? And will a joint initiative be presented on the follow-up to the Court? Because the president's motion is not fully up to date. Second point, more important. Namely, or in the footsteps... I understand that this time the law was consulted with Jewish and Ukrainian environments. Is the Israeli State expected to unblock the joint meetings of the groups to be held as well as the Jewish diaspora? Or is it even going to be a further act of reconciliation, like the kind we had with the Germans?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u158	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u159	Minister, we have least spoken here in the presence of the Prime Minister about our relations with Ukraine. Please tell us what law has so far produced effects in these relations and what effects you expect from the amendment. And the second point: how many criminal proceedings have been taken during these months under the rule of this law 'Cause the Prime Minister was talking about the total number. And how many in this particular mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u160	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Libicki. You're welcome. And then, Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u161	Thank you. Minister, when we talked about this law at the beginning of the year, these records, which I understand are, as the Prime Minister said, a minor correction, a deletion of two sentences, etc., you very hard defending Minister Jak. I would like to know because you're changing it today, if you think that then Minister Jak has made a mistake. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u162	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I answer questions in order. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked about the Penalization, about why it was planned until 1949. Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, Mr. Marshal's out. Okay. This is not the subject of this amendment. I do not answer questions which do not concern the subject of this amendment. What were the negative effects, you asked Senator Rybicki. Well, no doubt. And the Prime Minister spoke about it. This discussion, which has been in recent months, has been very emotional. She really showed how much there is to do, how many bad things happened when the Polish state was passive. What do I mean? Well, I mean, the situation is that some of the environments have started to be convinced... The difference between the perpetrators and the victims has begun to fade. I don't think I need to remind you of the senator. about films, about various kinds of statements by politicians Not in Poland, and above all abroad Who questioned who really was the victim and who was the executioner. Therefore, this discussion whether this whole situation has shown how much there is to be done and catching up to be done here. Emotional discussion, of course, also had negative consequences. What? Well, for example. a wave of anti-polonism in social media, and there were anti-Semitic statements. In situations like this, these things happen. It's very much on top of that. We hurt and chase every manifestation of this kind of behavior, but you have to go through it like a difficult stage of disease. Like the Prime Minister said, we are now moving forward, now we have another stage. Senator Rulewski asked about the Constitutional Tribunal and the President of the Republic of Poland. Mr Senator, I can only repeat what I said at the committee meeting: both the Constitutional Tribunal and the President of the Republic of Poland are independent authorities of a state that the government has no influence on. The Court shall proceed in accordance with its rules at the request of the President. The government is not taking any action on this matter, even because it cannot do so, even if it wishes to do so. Has this law been consulted? That's what the senator asked me, too. With the Jewish community? This law was primarily consulted in the Council of Ministers in accordance with the procedure, but was also for example. discussion within the framework of the Polish-Israeli dialogue group set up by Prime Minister Morawiecki. There are experts, there are no politicians, there are historians, sociologists. In this forum, consultations were held as well as other consultations provided for by law. [[Jews too, not only Poland...]] Are we going to some kind of... I'm sorry, but I don't know which one of the members of this group has Jewish origins. [[I asked you how much...]] Even yesterday I took part in such a conversation at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Are we moving towards reconciliation? Senator, of course, we are determined to build the best relationship with all our foreign partners, including Israel, including the Jewish environments. We want to reconcile ourselves with people of all nationalities who during World War II had difficult experiences in relations whether Polish-Jewish or Polish-German or Polish-Ukrainian, but I think we can all agree that reconciliation is only possible on a hard foundation of truth. Therefore, of course, the dialogue continues, is developing and Polish-Israeli relations are developing. If we look at the dynamics of Polish-Israeli economic, cultural relations, we will see that in recent months we have a lot of acceleration here. Senator Augustine also asked about Ukrainian issues. I'm just going to say that this law, this amendment, doesn't apply to Ukrainian issues. Number of criminal proceedings? You asked for precise numbers. I can commit that the firm will provide such information in writing. Senator Libicki said that the President of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki stated that this is an insignificant change. Well, no, Mr. Senator, I was in this room, too, and I listened very carefully. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, said that this was a simple change, and talked about how important it was, stressed its importance in both internal and external policies. Now I answer your question whether Mr. What's the mistake he made or whether he thinks he's made a mistake. Well, you have to ask Minister Jaki. I can say, in the footsteps of the Prime Minister, that the January amendment of this law also brought good fruit. There were a lot of emotions, there were negative consequences, but there were also good fruits. Today we are in a completely different place and this is a positive change compared to January 2018. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u164	Thank you. You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u165	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In the course of the debate on the impact of the IPN law, Minister, there have often been reports of opinions expressed by governments or public opinion, media in the United States, Israel and n Ukraine. I'd like to ask you... Because the government certainly monitored the reactions of the public, especially politicians and media, in Russia, especially in the context of Polish-Ukrainian relations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u166	Please. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Should I answer immediately, Mr Marshal?]] Excuse me, sir. Why don't we ask Senator Spider to have three questions? Are there any more questions? Good. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. As a Pole, there's one thing about this whole discussion that really hurts. There were Polish moneymakers, and that is a fact, but there were moneymakers on the other side. And in many cases, if anything, when even a question comes up in conversations, that one or another representative of the Jewish people was a painter or that because of him Poles suffered, Poles died, it is immediately raised the subject of anti-Semitism, etc. And yet we know that such facts were, we know that many... Later these people even changed names and made a career in Poland. Are these topics discussed anywhere? What's she like? reaction of the other party in discussions already at government level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u168	And we'll ask you to ask Senator Ziientarski for a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u169	Minister, well, we've heard a lot about the effects of this bill. Since this law has produced good results We raised our position, among others. The United States, then, what changed in the international situation, that you are listening to the arguments we have been talking about, and that you are amending this law? Because we haven't gotten an answer to that basic question so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u170	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as Senator Rybicki's question is concerned, I don't have the same knowledge as in the Russian media this bill was commented on... [[By politicians.]] ...or how she was commented on by Russian politicians. But let me remind you, this is not the subject of today's amendment. As far as Senator Spider's question is concerned, these topics are probably addressed, but rather by historians, we would have to ask the Institute of National Remembrance, which works with Yad Vashem. I suspect that all, even very difficult, topics are discussed. Yesterday, I spoke to the President of Szpytma, who is doing this in the IPN, and he was just talking about many very different difficult, painful threads from our common history, so I think this one is being moved. I urge you to contact the Institute of National Remembrance. On the question of Senator Ziientarski, what has changed, I will try to answer again, although I answered at the committee meeting, and the Prime Minister answered. This is an expression of some political maturity and responsibility for the state that politicians draw lessons from the internal and external situation of the country in which they work. [[So late?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Politics is a very dynamic area. There was a completely different situation six months ago than it is today. After this storm of discussions, comments, conversations, negotiations, all kinds of dialogues that took place in different forums, today knowledge of this After reminding you of this Who was the perpetrator and who was the victim, after the statements of the President of Germany, after the statements of Chancellor Merkel, who clearly pointed out the Germans as a nation of perpetrators and spoke of unacceptable statements that the Poles had participated in the Holocaust, is a completely different situation, Senator. [[It wasn't...]] And it's changed that there's a completely different situation. To this situation we choose the right political tools and today we clearly state: an investigation on the civil ground of the good name of Poland, such a fight for the good name of Poland is more effective than the use of these penalization regulations, which we propose to repeal. [[Are we retreating for these reasons? But we talked about it.]] [[Good.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u172	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: Thank you very much.]] A formal motion has been filed by Senator Martynowski... to report. There you go. [[But I have a question, well, I volunteer.]] Wait a minute. Mr. Marshal, you're on the list of people to ask questions. [[Oh, come on.]] You just came forward with a formal motion. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u173	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm in line with the article. 48 Rules of Procedure of the Senate please proceed to the discussion. I make a formal request to proceed to the discussion and close the list of speakers submitted and limit speaking time to 5 minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] [[Oh, how about no discussion at all?]] [[Maybe not at all?]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u174	Would you like to comment on the formal application? [[What happened?]] [[Voice from the room: not to discuss at all.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u175	I object to Senator Martynowski's request. He may request, of course, once again, to close the list, the rules allow. But you can't, Mr. Senator, file a motion to shorten senators' speeches for up to 5 minutes, because the protocol is clear: 10 minutes plus 5 minutes in the next speech. Well, there can't be that conclusion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[There's no reason.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u176	Senator Martynowski wants to address... [[There is no legal basis for your motion at all.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u177	It's me for a marshal who's been a marshal for so many years, and he should know perfectly well the rules... Mr. Marshal, Art. 48 (10): limitation of speaking time. This is also a formal conclusion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two conclusions... [[There wasn't a Senate meeting yet, in the history of the Senate, such a motion...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a formal request from Senator Martynowski and there is an objection from Marshal Borusewicz. I put to the vote the motion of Senator Martynowski and Mr... [[There are three conclusions.]] Three conclusions, right? There you go... [[Mr. Senator, why don't you repeat this request...]] Yeah, maybe again...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u179	Good. I'll say it again, yes. First request: to move to discussion. Two: to close the list of speakers. Three: to limit speaking time to five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u180	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I put the motion of Senator Martynowski to the vote. [[Voice from the room: What?]] Which one of your senators is... [[He doesn't have my card...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's not working.]] It's working. Everything's fine. Who among the senators is in favour of Senator Martynowski's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 senators voted, 52 were in favour of Senator Martynowski's request, 16 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Senator Martynowski's motion has been accepted. This means that the list of debaters was limited to the state that was written when we voted. The speeches will last five minutes and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We voted on one motion.]] Yes. [[The one about the discussion.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sorry, there's gonna be an amendment. We voted on one motion to close the list of questions. Then there will be a request for shortening... [[...time of speech...]] ...time to speak about 5 minutes, up to 5 minutes only. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] There you go... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: But there is a formal conclusion.]] The formal proposal shall now be put to the vote. After that, you will submit your application for this formal one. [[But what did we vote for?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Move to discussion.]] I surrender... We voted to limit the questions and move on to the discussion. [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's two...]] [[Voice from the room: Three.]] Wait a minute, there are three conclusions. The second proposal will be to close the list of people voted on... [[Voice from the room: For discussion.]] ...for discussion. There's a list, there's six people. We're shutting her down on six people. [[The discussion hasn't started yet!]] Now we vote... Mr. Senator, there's a formal motion and we're going to vote on it. The senator has filed a motion to close the questioning, and now we have a motion.... [[It's a formal matter!]] ...about closing the list... We vote on a formal case, and then you report your formal case. [[No, no, I have to go early.]] We are voting on the proposal. Which one of your senators... [[Has the discussion been opened?]] ...is in favor of reducing to 5 minutes of speeches during the discussion? [[But there was no discussion!]] There you go. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[How can you shorten something that hasn't started?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] 71 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 19 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] The motion has been accepted. [[Formal conclusion!]] And Senator Martynowski's final request is to close the mailing list. [[But we haven't volunteered yet!]] Eight people have been enrolled... [[We haven't opened the discussion yet!]] Wait a minute! Six people are saved. And right now, there's a request to close this list. That is why I am putting this proposal to the vote. [[But it hasn't been opened yet...]] [[It doesn't matter.]] [[Should we sign up before the Senate, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's open all the time. Six people were... [[No!]] ...it's written down, yes, it's written down. There was an open list. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Sign up 'cause there's no vote yet.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. We are voting on the request to close the list of persons for discussion. [[Yeah, sign up. Sign up now.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 70 senators voted, 56 in favour, 14 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] [[Even before the vote, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes. Before the vote, it was signed up. For information, I'd like to give you 9 people and on that the list of debaters has been closed. So let's move on to... [[Mr. Marshal, you have announced...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Because you were supposed to...]] I remember everything. I can see everything. Now I'm gonna give you a voice. Here's a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, there is no doubt that there has been controversy about the procedure and further work of the senators. I propose that the Senate Bureau hold a meeting... [[Meeting.]] ...the sitting, and before that, the marshal announced a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u182	Thank you very much. I put to the vote a formal motion by Senator Rulewski. [[There's no formal application for...]] There's a request for a break. [[There's no application in the directory... there's just a request for a break.]] There is a request for an adjournment, and I am voting on this proposal. Who among the senators is in favour of a request for a break? Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 75 senators voted in favour of the senator's request, 57 against the proposal, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] The motion was not supported. [[Formal conclusion.]] Let's get to the discussion. Right now, I'm opening... [[Voices from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Here you go, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u183	Mr Marshal, I am making a formal request to interrupt the sitting and to have the Legislative Bureau comment on the Rules of Procedure on whether it is possible to close the discussion if it has not been announced at all. Because it's something amazing and impossible. Mr. Marshal, we'd like the Legislative Bureau to state whether this is acceptable at all...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u184	Mr. Senator, I understand. Only an application for a break may be considered as a formal application. Such a proposal has already been voted on, so there is no need for us to vote on it again. [[When are we supposed to sign up?]] Let's get to the discussion. He was the first person in the discussion to sign up for... [[Marshal Borusewicz.]] ...Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. [[Five minutes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u185	We're moving on to a higher stage of work in the Senate. So far, only the number of questions was limited at the request of Senator Martynowski. At the moment, at the senator's request, it was not only the number of questions that were limited, but also the speaking time, but also the list of speakers... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] ...Mrs. Marshal, even though the Marshal didn't open the list of speakers. This procedure is simply embarrassing for the Senate position. Just the fact that today at 12:00 p.m. The Sejm voted to withdraw the basic amendment of the IPN Act from 5 months ago proposed by the PiS Government, and at 1 p.m. it was at the Senate meeting, shows that we are beginning to treat ourselves as the Chamber of Third Reading in the Sejm, reading the Sejm. It's a downgrade of the Senate. I mean, I'm definitely protesting. [[Applause]] In the Senate, it has not yet happened that the speaking time has been reduced, and this has not happened. Well, you can limit not to 5 minutes, you can limit to 30 seconds. [[That's still ahead of us.]] Why don't you do it? You're not doing it yet, but you're on the right track. I wanted to start differently. I wanted to start more positive. Well, I largely agree with what Prime Minister Morawiecki said. But why, five months ago, when we called from this speaker for a reminder, for not to proceed with this bill in such a manner, when I, at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, asked Marshal Karczewski not to proceed in such a manner, gave the government time to reflect on the effects of this law, did you not listen to the opposition? You do not listen to the opposition, but not only to the senators, nor do you listen to what they say and say people who came here and demonstrated under the Senate on many laws, on the Constitutional Court, on the court, on the Supreme Court. You did not listen and did not listen to us when we talked about what this change of the law on IPN, penalization, threat to the criminal code for everyone around the world who refers to the concept of Polish death camps. We talked about the possibility... that it's more effective to fight it under civil procedure than to put state tools into it. We said that there was no way that anyone in the United States would judge for that kind of formulation in a criminal trial according to our laws. You didn't listen to us, you didn't listen to us, you didn't listen to the opposition, you didn't talk to the opposition, you had only a limited voice in your catalogue, you had a limited frequency of parliamentary meetings, the Senate, and the Sejm. It leads to the fact that... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...you listen to neighbouring states or other countries, other governments, not us, senators. And finally... [[Time.]] And finally, the Ukrainian case. It is good that the Prime Minister has announced that there will be a change in this bill as well. [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] I'm almost done. Why is there this 1925-1950, which covers different legal and factual situations? Because in this area there was a Polish state, then there was the Soviet occupation, German occupation, and then Poland was in a completely different shape. 1925 I asked everyone... In 1925, ladies and gentlemen, Jewhen Konowalec, the founder of the Ukrainian Military Organization, moved the seat of this organization... [[Mr. Marshal, thank you. Time's up.]] ...from Prague to Berlin and... [[Thank you very much...]] ...stopped working with the Russians... [[Thank you very much...]] ...because he had previously worked with the Russians and the Germans. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you very much...]] It's a Russian throwaway. [[Thank you very much.]] This is a Russian interpretation of Ukrainian nationalism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u186	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Mrs. Senator, I would like to invite you to the podium very cordially. [[I'm signing up for five minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: But I...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm signing up for the second time in five minutes.]] But I understand that at all... Mr. Marshal, I understand that... [[But the list is closed.]] [[No, no, no, we voted because...]] The list is closed. The conclusion that the discussions are limited to 5 minutes has been passed and it is therefore not possible to subscribe to the additional vote. You're welcome, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u187	Thank you very much. Because while I was on my way to the podium, your Marshal said to me, please, I would like to address your marshal and tell you that I am very sorry, because you are introducing... Don't take it personally, but... what happened today is an absolute scandal. There's a long-standing senator sitting next to me, Marek Borowski, who wanted to enlist, and he has no way of... [[He could have signed up.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] How could he? When? Before... [[He could have signed up.]] [[When? Yesterday? Yesterday.]] No... [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[But you're welcome...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't interrupt me, Senator! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] When was he supposed to sign up? [[Voice from the room: He could have...]] No, sir... [[Quiet, please!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator, get to the point, because time is short.]] [[Voice from the room: And...]] But what he's asking... [[The list of speakers hasn't been opened.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!]] [[We didn't know...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, 9 people signed up for the discussion, so it was possible to sign up.]] [[But someone announced it?]] [[There's a formal motion, the list's closed.]] [[You should have said we were opening the list...]] [[You're welcome, Senator. There you go.]] I am absolutely convinced, Mrs. Marshal, that the regulations have been violated here. Definitely many years of good customs have been broken. There's never been anything like this that's been restricted. I don't know why I'm addressing the P.I.S. You accept such requests. You'll be in this situation in a few years. And what will you say then? We'll remind you of Mr. Martynowski. Or someone else will remind you of all this, certainly worse than us or you. I'd also like to say one thing. It can't be that in such an urgent act It's not really that urgent, it could have been done earlier. Nor can it be that the list of speakers is closed. The customs of the Sejm are introduced here. I know your marshal, and I can't imagine her acting like Mr. Kuchciński. Why don't you put other restrictions in here and turn off our microphones? This is the Senate. I stress: this is the Senate. Here they were, I thought, different standards. I'm getting to the point. I'll try very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a principle: first of all, do not harm. A bill that was introduced with huge opposition, a bill that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal... [[Excuse me. Gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Marshal, please remain silent. Mr. Senators, time is short, so I wouldn't want to waste it on paying attention and yelling at you. There you go.]] I'm asking that the Senator of the PiS, who can't behave, be counted off. [[Mrs. Senator...]] He doesn't know how to behave. [[Mrs. Senator...]] Dear Mrs Marshal, I would like to say that, first of all, the principle of "do not harm" should be applied when we think about foreign policy, about important, sensitive matters concerning painful relations between nations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] The opposition spoke of this, paying attention to the dangers associated with this bill. You've completely ignored it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] The Prime Minister said today that he would have voted in the same way that he would have supported this bill again. I have to say, it was quite shocking. It means that the Prime Minister has learned nothing and that this government will learn nothing. Let me tell you something that we all know. Google Trends there's such a big hill It's something that tests what people around the world are interested in. How to enter a password there is a polysh death camp... There was a big hill. She's been so big for the first time in many, many years. It's just that people started using that term. It has become popular all over the world. It was flat before, and it's been flat again lately. That bill didn't make it any better. She ruined everything. It introduced the formulation of Polish concentration camps to the awareness of people around the world. I'd like to say yes now. I would like you to commend yourselves with anything in terms of improving relations with Israel, any success, anything that could be described as moving forward. But there was no such thing. It was just a screw-up. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't interrupt me, sir. It was just a screw-up. I'll remind you what we've done and what you've ruined. I remind you of the construction of the museum of Polin. I'm talking about a shared story that shows... So far there have been only trips to Auschwitz. The Polin Museum showed a centuries-old, great bond between the two nations, friendship, intercourse, etc., showed good sides. That's fantastic. Visitors from Israel now come not only to Oświęcim, but also to Warsaw. [[Time, Senator.]] Another issue is the result of cooperation with Yad Vashem and the Holocaust Museum in Washington. I'll remind you of the famous barracks case. We managed to get things done that couldn't have been done before. I will remind you of the year of Israel, which was very well received. There was a wonderful show of Polish culture in Israel. It was a real improvement in our relationship. I'll remind you of the effective... [[Time, Senator.]] Count me in on those things. I have to say it. [[Okay, here we go.]] Thank you. Let me remind you of the effective cooperation with the Dutch. The Prime Minister mentioned here the Dutch, with whom we began cooperation in the reconstruction, renewal of the camp in Sobibor, to remind this whole situation related to the Dutch Jews. This hasn't happened before. I would like to remind you of these tables concerning the Jews from Luxembourg, the tables revealed here in Poland. I will also remind the Prime Minister of this visit with the entire government. Polish Prime Minister, Donald Tusk, went to Israel... [[Senator, I've added up my time, but he's already over, so thank you so much.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. In conclusion, it's a... Scandal, it's already a word, but I'll say I'm ashamed. I am ashamed that today, when the Prime Minister, for the first time, as some say, has honored this House with his presence, there are so embarrassing, embarrassing things happening here. This is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u188	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Mr. Senator, please. [[But I was saved, I'm sorry.]] [[But you've already been crossed out.]] [[Voice from the room: The new motion was...]] [[You've already been crossed out...]] [[Voice from the hall: There you are, Peter.]] Quiet, I'm sure you can explain that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister... although I can't see you. High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But calmly...]] But I'd like a moment of silence. It's only five minutes, it'll be really quick. I would like to start with what Senator Klein has prepared for his speech, but since you are so nicely here in the Polish Parliament, before I mention it, I would like to first of all to congratulate the Senators of Law and Justice very warmly. What you're doing with the Polish Senate is just disgrace and shame. You'll be ashamed of yourself for this. And I would particularly like to thank Senator Martynowski. I know him from his previous term, and I remember how inquisitive he was. And very well. Well, it was unthinkable for a bill to have a four-week vacathio legis. After all, we remember how ashamed we were at committee meetings that we were introducing a four-week vacathio legis. What you're doing... Mr. Senator Martynowski, Dear Mark, you will sign up with golden reports in the history of Polish parliamentarianism. And it's too bad there's only four senators with you, marshal five... Oh, no, just a little bit more. I miscounted, I think, the nerves. [[It's a waste of time.]] It's a waste of time. Anyway, I'd like to talk about what Senator Klein has prepared. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Because I can't perform.]] ...Senator Klein can't perform. We asked about the procedure. Well, I was asking the senator when he got it, 'cause I thought after he met him, he got to know he had an analysis. I want to tell you what Senator Klein got you. A resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted yesterday. The ministers were given until 10 p.m. for her opinion, and today we are adopting it. And the President is in Estonia today, and as far as I can tell, he'll probably be flying to Estonia to sign it. What are you doing with Polish democracy? Guys, did you guys fall in the head? [[Who are you doing this for?]] For who? What are you doing? Well, are you guys... [[Applause]] Do you have to make everything so unthinkable? I said in my last speech that I thought I was kidding, I just wanted to make a little joke. When the Novgorodian prikaz arrives, you will agree that the Earth is flat, and it is without consultation. Well, a couple of people are gonna hold off, but you're gonna go over there, and you're gonna go down there, and you're gonna defend the independence of saying that the Earth is flat, and you're gonna convince us. This bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sir, keep quiet. [[Quiet, please.]] Mrs. Marshal, please calm this gentleman down. [[Mr. Senator, please don't take this kind of trip.]] Come on, you hear me? Don't make comments like that. [[I'm talking to you.]] Me? [[This is a senator, not a gentleman, so be careful...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. [[...how you express yourself.]] His Majesty the Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Proceed because time is running out.]] Mrs. Marshal, the Prime Minister had a speech here about this bill. We meant well, everything was good. In time I'll say it was like a Polish ball: we wanted well, everything was prepared... [[...and it came out as usual.]] ...and it came out as usual. And you do the same thing with most laws. Everything's fine, we want it good, and it comes out when it comes out. And now every session we're gonna correct those stupid things you're preparing as senators... [[...without reflection.]] ...without reflection. Are you preparing? You get them in the morning and without any opinion, you vote without thinking. Well, there's a word on my lips that tells me how you vote, but I'm not gonna say that word. But everyone knows how you vote. I'll just say this: you're destroying Polish parliamentarianism. You're destroying the Polish Senate. The tradition of this House was that it had been discussed, discussed so long as the subject was exhausted. Of course, there were sometimes too long discussions, there were discussions conducted by Law and Justice, we were also nervous that we had listened for too long, but we listened calmly. I apologize for saying that, but nobody would have thought to file a motion to close the list of speakers and limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. You create things that cause the collapse of Polish parliamentarianism, and above all the Senate. That's what I'm worried about. And that is why I would like to say yes: you are people who have destroyed not only Poland but also Polish parliamentarianism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Unintelligently.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u190	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the 500th anniversary of parliamentarianism... [[Applause]] ...on the eve of the National Assembly, I have an urgent request to my colleagues at the PiS. I'm begging you, let me say one word. It won't be ugly, because it'll be an anthem. Like Cambronne said... [[Merde.]] Merde. Yes. And the second point, Mrs. Marshal. Because you voted the right way. In the future, I'll go back to the mask and promise you I won't apologize. Because if you can't talk, you have to show something else. And I will. [[Applause]] Now, let's get to the point. For the whole six months, until today, the narrative of Mr Morawiecki, the hero of Solidarity Fighting Today's fall was: we're not giving up a button. Neither the State Department nor the Jews nor the Ukrainians will be given a button. Today there has been a change, as it is said in the common language: back. The withdrawal does not apply to any contract for the supply of oil from Russia or the United States. The withdrawal concerns a matter of importance, a matter which... At this point, not far from here, Polish Minister for Foreign Affairs on a very delicate Nazi proposal of the corridor through Prussia said that there is nothing more valuable than honor and Poland will not trade it. Mr Morawiecki, defender of the National Armed Forces, Solidarity of the Fighting, and also the Slayer of the National Army, and even 3/4 of the Solidarity Party, is retreating today. It retreats in the face of dictation and ultimatums they report I don't blame you for that. Alien governments that are driven by internal interests. Because I would understand if it was for the sake of understanding and reconciliation that we should go back in the name of common interest. But I don't see this business in common. I don't see you, my friend, Mr. Senator Ryszka... [[You're the provocator normally.]] ...when you agree that the legislator agrees to accuse Poland, the government of exile and the Polish people, including the Catholic Church, of taking part in the Holocaust... I'm surprised you put up a white flag. Time's probably running out. It's probably hard to be motivated. I feel like the Pole who cries when he hears about Silk, but I am proud that half a million soldiers, a million underground, the Church and ordinary, nameless people fought to avoid the Holocaust, to punish not the German state, but the fascists, the Nazis. And I'm proud of it. Like I cry over the fate of all those who survived the Holocaust on Polish soil. I say Poland needs people like that, and that's why I'm here. And I don't refer to you as the people of the white-red team. You guys put up a white flag. I'm saying you don't even have a white flag. You guys are just barren. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u192	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki. There you go. [[Someone said there's no freedom, and here you're allowed to say such stupid things.]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. [[Voice from the room: Before that, they were bigger.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the ministers aren't here. It must be said that logic does not allow us to understand what is happening today, because when Senator Mammoth's committee was sitting, there was not even a trace of printing on the Senate website yet. Then print 883 appeared on the committee's website and only later on the plenary agenda. The Prime Minister here charmingly reprimanded Senator Napieralski SLD, forgetting that one of his faces was Mr.Piotrowicz of the PZPR. And a tough P.A.P., the prosecutor. We did not get an answer to one interesting question: what happens is that it is done with violation of all rules and regulations as an extremely urgent matter? The media cannot read this cause, and the Prime Minister, as you can see, did not consider it appropriate to enlighten us more. I don't want to talk about the damage this bill caused anymore... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because not more than last week we hosted the most outstanding surviving thoracologist in the world, the man who first transplanted his lungs successfully in 1983 in Toronto. He is Jewish and going to Szczecin, for the first time visiting Poland, of which we were extremely proud and honored, asked if it was safe to come to Poland after the introduction of this law, because the wave of anti-Semitism according to him is growing, as well as the wave of anti-Polishism in America, which could be seen by even the marshal, insulted by the mayor of Jersey City, the bedroom of New York City. These are all the effects of an unreasonable law, which was defended in an absolutely irrational manner. And we don't know why it's happening so fast and instantly, whether it's July 4th, U.S. Independence Day or other dates. Someone was talking about 3 July, some vote in the European Commission, although Commissioner Timmermans was given an informal approval to take further steps, e.g. in connection with the Supreme Court Act. We don't know that anymore, and that's the word. disregarding the House of the Higher Parliament. 'Cause if we're gonna do a facade parliament, if we're gonna do a parliamentarian thing like in times like this, As everyone seems to agree Well, let's keep doing this. But if we want to be respectable and serious people, not only in the case of the IPN Act, but in any other legislative process we should maintain completely different standards. Poland went to the uniform with a blown-out balloon and impersonating... Every politician wanted to connect to success, although they hadn't achieved anything yet, they were just on their way to the uniform. And traditionally, I remind you, Poland on the mundial, except for the outstanding team of Kazimierz Górski from 1974 and not much worse this from 1982. Always a game of opening match, a game of everything and a game of honor. Using this comparison, I'm going to say that the opening match with the IPN Act has lost to the mole. It was a knockout, it was a painful failure. Now is the time of the game for everything and such a process over this unfortunate law, which may have in its purposes had noble aims to defend the worship of Poles. But she's done so much damage, it's hard to even estimate them all... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Now it's a game for everything. If we lose this game again, and we're not completely prepared for it, the honor game will no longer be as Mrs Pawłowicz wanted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u194	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[But an extra five minutes is okay?]] You can't, because the discussion is limited to five minutes, Senator. That was the conclusion. [[But this first performance...]] At all, the discussion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...the vote in the discussion for up to 5 minutes. [[Voice from the room: It was voted.]] That conclusion was overruled. Mr. Senator... [[I'm here.]] Oh, excuse me. [[I'm just getting ready...]] [[There was no second speech, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I move on to discussing this amendment, I want to talk a little bit about working mode. The state, which is the majority of the government, is making the Sejm and the Senate an impostor of parliamentarianism. I therefore have such a request for Senator Martynowski. Why would we pretend? It is better to carry out some constitutional reform and let President Kaczyński rule with the Nowogrodzka decrees, we will go home and at least until the end of our term of office we will collect our allowances. It'll be fairer and clearer. I appeal to Senator Martynowski... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...to think about such an amendment. That's the first line. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's the first line. Next line. I want to say yes. I feel like we're going back to January or February when we first discussed this bill. After all, Senator Klich said at the time that there was a harsh statement from the State Department to stop to wait to reflect, and then you said that it was about the strength of Poland, about building the strength of Poland. I'm the one asking: when is this force being built? Would this force be built if we stopped for a moment, thought about it and discussed whether this force is being built now, when, in fear and for unknown reasons, the state withdraws from it and is it in a manner that insults all parliamentary procedures? That's very clear. Does it build the strength of the Polish state? I don't think so. Here's another thing. It is said that only sanctions are removed, one or two sentences are deleted. So what I'm asking is, what's it like to prosecute a crime if there's no penalty for this crime? In this situation we are dealing with legal and criminal fiction. The next thing I know, I've already talked about it in my question. President Kaczyński likes to say that the Polish state before 2015 was weak against the strong and strong against the weak. That's exactly what you're doing in this bill: you're pulling out of bad or bad records because something's going on in the United States or Israel, but because Ukraine is weaker, we can go to Ukraine, sorry, colloquially speaking, to take it out. And that's just to say, very weak and very low. I want to be very clear about this. And then there's the next line. There's only two lines, so I'll be able to fit in five minutes. It's about the Polish National Foundation. I'll always talk about it, because what's going on is just one big scandal. Recently we all received after the album about John Paul II... I'm the last one who wouldn't appreciate John Paul's albums. II, but such albums are really many in Poland. And in this case, this foundation has done nothing, and it's just like President Kaczyński would say. I'm going to quote again; I know some of these quotes. The pyramidal scandal. Yes, the Polish National Foundation is a pyramidal scandal and this is something to be said about. And finally, one last thing. After all, this is the responsibility of the particular person who stood before us here and who are the records that we are deleting today, these two sentences. A minor correction, as Prime Minister Morawiecki would say That we cross out, she just defended like independence. In a normal country, in a normal democracy President Kaczyński likes to repeat such words Mr Which Minister should resign. [[Applause]] I know you won't call him off because he's a United Rights candidate for the President of Warsaw. I just hope that the Warsaw people watch this debate and learn from it. 'Cause after the whole thing, I'd be afraid to be a Warsaw resident. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u196	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Please, Mr... [[Voice from the hall: Mrs. Marshal, Mrs. Zdrojewska...]] Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u197	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, but I'd like to request a recess due to the absence of Minister Dworczyk. I don't know why he's not here, but this is another situation like this. For the first time... He just left, didn't he? [[Senator, the request for a break has been made. We've already voted there won't be a break.]] But for another reason. It's for a different reason. I would ask you to call Minister Dworczyk here. What's the point of this discussion? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Or Mr. Jaki.]] Or Mr. Jake's, since he's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u198	You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We'll see if the Minister can get to us. I'm asking the office to find out if the Minister is around here somewhere so he can reach us. There you go, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's presence here today may have been an event, an important, positive event. Meanwhile, the prime minister from this place tried to prove that what was a complete failure, a failure, a bad bill that brought avalanches of unfavorable comments to Poland, an avalanche of adverse judgments concerning our past to Poland. In the majority of the glory With regard to the Holocaust... The Prime Minister tried to call it a success. But the truth is completely different. And it's very sad that the Prime Minister came here to try to pervert... He used that word, but he tried to overthink what really happened. The truth does not belong to the winners, as the Prime Minister claimed. Historical truth is not shaped by the winners. Those who said that, and those who did that, signed up for the worst reports in history. The Prime Minister was trying to convince us that this was the right way. This isn't the right way. The truth is... The truth must always be sought, colliding with the opposite opinions, and trying to agree on it, so that it has its right strength. The power of persuasion. This cannot be done specifically by the appointed institute or by the government. And yet the Prime Minister could have said three simple words here: please, thank you, I'm sorry. I ask that this law be passed, because the rules have proved to be bogus, because the rules have proved unrealistic, because these laws do not work and cause harm. Please, let's make this quick so it doesn't take long. I thank the opposition for saying that she warned me that she wanted to stop it. And in the end, he should say, "I'm sorry." I apologize for the author of this legal bubble. I'm sorry about the minister. I would like to inform you that in my government there is no room for any ministers, not for those who, not only this law, but also similar ones, concerning reprivatization, praised as an excellent work. Now you can look for him not so much in the government as in the streets of Warsaw, on which he tries to praise his person as a candidate for the president of the capital. Unfortunately, we have not heard these words here, but we have heard many half-truths and, unfortunately, misrepresentations. That's how it ends, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, getting off your knees. You have to, I think, know the limits of your own abilities. Apparently, it was misjudged here. This ceiling is very low, and the state, when you get off your knees, not yourself, but to all of us, you've hurt us. This really shouldn't have happened. In my previous speech, when I was talking about reducing salaries for parliamentarians, I was talking about the fact that this is probably not the last act of lowering Parliamentary and parliamentarians. Those who seek autocracy do not want an authentic parliament. And today we have another edition of this process. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] What I have said has not ended, I assure you, will continue, and we, and our presence here, will be brought back, and we are already being brought into the role of a completely unnecessary dummy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u200	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u201	Mrs Marshal, I would like to make a formal request to close the discussion and move on to the vote. [[Can we still make adjustments?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u202	He's dead. [[If you're in a hurry for the game, you're welcome...]] There's been a formal motion... [[Merkel, do you want to cheer?]] [[But how's that? You mean what? That...]] There's been a formal motion... [[But it's already closed.]] I have to... [[What did I tell you?]] Sir... [[So I'm the one who can't speak? Mr. Marshal?]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, there's been a formal motion, and I have to put it to the vote. [[But there's already been a conclusion.]] Is the motion against it? [[The list was already closed.]] Is the motion against it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u203	There it is. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u204	Yes? [[But what conclusion?]] Ladies and gentlemen... Request to close the discussion. [[But the list was already closed.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: But you can't make such a request again.]] [[Oh, no. Twice? Well, Mrs. Marshal, this is a scandal. The list was already closed.]] Excuse me... [[I was enrolled in the discussion from the very beginning, was prevented from signing up to other senators, and at the moment, no vote is given during the legitimate discussion? Yes?]] Mr. Senator, yes. Mr. Senator, please... [[Uh-huh. Well, thank you...]] Mr. Senator... [[Kuchciński is gold compared to you, Mr. Marshal Karczewski.]] [[Because I wanted to tell you the truth...]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the article. 48 (3) we voted to close the list of speakers. This motion has been voted out. Now Mr. Senator has applied for an article. 48 point 4... [[To prevent two senators from performing, right?]] ...talking about adjourning or closing the discussion... [[A five-minute speech?]] ...about closing the discussion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am putting this motion to the vote. [[Well, ladies and gentlemen, well...]] [[Senator, finish the discussion.]] Who is in favour of the request to close the discussion? [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club hit the desktops, chant: Shame-ba! Shame on you!]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club hit the desktops, chant: Shame-ba! Shame on you!]] There you go, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 63 senators voted, 48 for, 15 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] The motion has been accepted. [[Let's go home, 'cause we're done here.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[But what, in the middle of the performances?]] [[They haven't played that one yet.]] The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been tabled... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue on the bill under consideration will be held after the interruption. Please read the message. [[But what break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u205	Message. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know if I'm supposed to... Message. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment will take place on 27 June 2018 immediately after the announcement of a break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u206	Dismissed until 4:50 p.m. Thank you. [[Too long!]] [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 40 to 16 minutes 50]] I'm extending my break until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 50 to 17 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u207	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 883 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to report on the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission discussed the amendments notified to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the National Polish People and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u209	Thank you. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u210	A minority of committees request that prison sentences, imprisonments be removed from the current law. However, I consider it appropriate that, pending the regulation of cases which undoubtedly lower the rank and value of the Polish nation, its government in exile, and create a bridge to compensation, maintain criminality in the form of penalties limited to fines. In all cases in which citizens of different countries commit this act in ignorance, in ignorance, it is necessary to maintain the lack of criminality, provided that they immediately make an appropriate correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u211	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment which I have the honour to present has been prepared and recommended by your Marshal Borusewicz. He drew attention to a very important issue concerning today's debate. Well, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, here in our Chamber, from this speaker, informed us that at the present time has already been initiated... I do not remember the exact number, but certainly more than 80 proceedings. So we don't do what we did last time and we don't create a legal bubble again, we propose an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is to regulate the issue of the proceedings initiated and to ensure that all of this is in accordance with the Constitution, with the rules of law. Please, ladies and gentlemen, allow us to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. Would the senators of the applicant still like to speak? No. I'm informing you that... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[It's...]] [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] I would like to inform you that the proposals were made by the senators Jan Rulewski and Bogdan Borusewicz during the discussion. We'll proceed to the... [[I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority.]] [[Success, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Joint success.]] There's no formula. That's it. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, no one voted in favour, 76 senators opposed, two abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] I conclude that the claim was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 76 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] [[Applause]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 834, and the report of the Commission In print No 834 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please move the calls to the cockroaches. I'm giving the floor to Senator Stanisławek right now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an opinion to the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Act, which was discussed at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Thank you for the silence. Go on, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you very much. The bill submitted to the Senate aims primarily at setting up a special-purpose fund, the Low-carbon Transport Fund, which will finance the development of infrastructure enabling the use of alternative fuels, i.e. Biocomponents, liquid biofuels, other renewable fuels, electricity, hydrogen, compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas in transport and reduce the use of liquid fuels such as diesel and motor gasoline. The Fund will build an incentive system for manufacturers and buyers of alternative fuel vehicles. The fund shall be governed by the Minister responsible for Energy. The tasks of the Minister as the manager of the Fund shall be governed by the Act in Article. 28za. The most important will be the preparation of annual financial plans, the identification of project selection procedures for support and the approval of projects for support. The fund manager will be responsible for the implementation of support consisting in the taking or acquisition of shares, shares or bonds issued by entities other than the State Treasury. The fund manager will choose a specific form of support and specify in the Regulation the specific conditions for the provision of support from the fund. It will be up to the authorising officer to determine the procedure for selecting projects to be supported, i.e. the adoption of a competition or non-competition procedure, as well as the implementation of non-competition support, that is defined by the provisions of the Article. 28zi amended act. The fund's manager will examine the protests brought by those whose applications for support will be considered in a negative way. The management of the fund shall be entrusted to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The third entity carrying out the fund's tasks is Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which will provide banking services. Support will be provided in the form of grants, loans and the taking-up or acquisition of shares, shares or bonds issued by entities other than the Treasury. The Act provides for support for the alternative fuel market, the definition of which is contained in the European regulations of the 2014 European Parliament and Council Directive on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure and Regulation No 1315 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network and repealing Decision No 661 of 2010. A rather long discussion has been held on the bill, which has resulted in the adoption of many amendments. Both our side, the senators and the social side, the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels, took the floor. There were also environmental representatives. So that I very much ask the High Senate to adopt this law, which will certainly accelerate both in the future and allow the creation of vehicles with alternative drives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u215	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a request for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We worked hard on this bill. The Legislative Office has made a great deal of proposals which, in the opinion of the senators, but also the ministries had, and still have, a chance to improve this law so that it is compatible with the legal system and does not contain errors. Some of these proposals were accepted by committees, and some, for us, for completely incomprehensible reasons, did not gain the support of the majority, including even those which contained evident things to improve, for example. language errors and pure grammatical errors. That is why we believe that the catalogue of these amendments that should be included should include those that we have submitted as a minority request so that this law is in line with the suggestions of the Legislative Office, which is legal, in line with the highest standards of law making that we here in the Senate have a duty to take care of. I therefore recommend this set of amendments on behalf of the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u217	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I apologize in advance that I wasn't at our committee meeting because the plane was late. Why is the Low-carbon Transport Fund called up when the functions that the Fund is supposed to carry out can, after all, be successful That's what I think. To implement the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? This law provides for the possibility to waive the loans provided by this fund, i.e. discretion, to decide who will be the beneficiary of the funds collected in the fund. Recognition will also determine who will be decommitted from the loan. Don't you think, Senator, that these are somewhat vague records?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u219	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. There was no discussion on this in committee, so that my knowledge is limited here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u221	Are there any further questions? [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I understand I can ask the government's side. Is that so?]] There'll be questions later. [[Thank you.]] Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u222	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm not a member of the committee, but I'd like to ask you. This is a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. The impact these legislative changes will have on the price of fuel on the market. Is it gonna bounce back in any way? Is there a discussion on this at the committee's meeting? Short-wave, but long-term... 'Cause now the fuel prices are pretty high, they're stabilizing, maybe they've been down a little bit lately... But how will it affect... will it be compensated in some way or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u223	There was no discussion on this subject in committee or any discussion, but... [[I'm sorry, I spoke.]] [[Wait a minute, let me...]] Well, maybe I missed it. But in the debate in the Sejm it was scrolling and the Ministry assured that this law had no direct effect on the price of petrol. Well, I guess we're all adults and we realize what fuel prices in Poland depend on. These eight pennies or ten of VAT have no significance compared to the dollar rate in which liquid fuels are accounted for, for example. the recent decisions of the United States to ban oil imports from Iran... Yeah, that's our delivery guy. We are, unfortunately, a small player on the global market and have no impact on oil prices, we are the final customer. So I think this low-carbon fund is the least important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u224	Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, what's the impact on the fund? How much is it expected to be, how much is it going to be in VAT? 'Cause it's gonna be revenue too... Assuming we have the most cars in Poland... Because the last data we heard here today is that 0.7 cars per person in Poland and in Germany - What's . So we're gonna buy a lot of this fuel. We buy and it grows, we get cars every year, especially those... we know what kind of cars these are. Ones that burn a lot of fuel and older cars. What's the prognosis of influence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u226	I don't know that kind of data. There wasn't a conversation about it either. But you're the minister, I'm sure he'll explain it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u227	Are there any further questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Mr. Michael Kurtyka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. Minister, do you wish to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Maybe briefly, a few words about the law itself, if the marshal will allow it. The subject of the Senate's work today is the draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, which together with the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels is the implementation into Polish law of the principles of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. In this context, this fund will become the main tool for financing clean transport in Polish cities. Answering the senator's question right away... [[Thank you very much.]] We will have, in terms of the proceeds to the fund from the issue fee, throughout the entire cycle of this project, i.e. 10 years, 2.5 billion PLN. At the same time, I would like to point out that both laws, i.e. both the electromobility law and the Biocomponents and biofuels law must be seen as a common tool of economic policy of the state. On the one hand, there is a regulatory space, on the other hand there are mechanisms for financing the development of a completely new market, as the rapporteur, Senator Stanisławek, has talked about for a long time. It is undoubtedly a very important law that allows us to take a bold look at the prospect of developing alternative fuels, especially in the context of the fact that Poland is one of the last countries in the European Union, which has not developed a certain proactive state policy. However, in our case we could already rely partly on the experiences of other countries, but we could also construct a policy that we think is It will really allow you to build an innovative space, unique, based on the first experiences from other countries, but also create some solutions that we think are very promising for Poland. Undoubtedly, this area will require continuous analysis of not only technological but also regulatory solutions. As I have mentioned, we have reviewed the actions taken in other markets and we have recognised that the validity of the diagnosis we have made and the tools adopted to develop the alternative fuels market have been confirmed in the ongoing dialogue between the Ministry of Energy and the European Commission, which is part of the notification process. Poland's proposal to set up a special fund to finance the measures provided for in the Electromobility Development Plan and in the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels has been welcomed by the European Commission, as have the mechanisms chosen for this purpose. To answer the next question, I would also like to say that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is an umbrella, a wider fund, which will include a special fund, which will be the Low Carbon Transport Fund. This will in no way increase the cost of service. This special fund will benefit from the infrastructure of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. About 0.6% of the fund's projects are planned to be handled directly by the Fund. the revenue of the fund in 2019 and given that the fund will grow over time, this will be even as little as 0,021% in 2027 So that it is an extremely cost-effective tool to conduct the state's financial policy, incorporated in this case into the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, but with the overarching role of the Minister of Energy and the role of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As regards the forms of support, we assumed that there would be quite a considerable flexibility in the forms of support from the Low Carbon Transport Fund, grants, loans. There was also a question from the senator about possible redemptions, but it is important to be aware that this fund must operate within the framework of the state aid rules, within the existing conditions and regulations of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The projects will be... With some exceptions, because the Act also provides for the possibility to conduct a non-competition mode, defining in detail the conditions under which the non-competition mode may take place. However, it must be borne in mind that a number of projects will be conducted in a competitive manner, on the same principles as those on which today the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management manages, among others. an instrument such as redemption of the loan. As far as areas where we want the fund to be active are concerned, the first area is the construction of infrastructure for charging or refueling vehicles. In our view, such developed infrastructure will not only increase the safety of drivers of green cars, but will also bring the functionality of zero- and low-carbon vehicles closer to those powered by diesel or oil or gasoline. Today we are dealing with a situation where this infrastructure is not sufficiently developed and with such an ongoing problem as to whether the consumer can afford to buy such a vehicle if there is no guaranteed possibility of charging or, in the case of hydrogen, refueling throughout the country. The possibility of launching such infrastructure with this fund will increase the credibility, the ability to use and purchase such vehicles. In addition, the aim of the fund will also be to maximise added value in the Polish economy and gain competitive advantages by Polish entities in certain market niches. We must be aware that at the moment it is not possible to gain such an advantage in the case of highly developed technologies complementing the traditional combustion engine, but it is worth noting that it remains real in less developed technological areas where the advantage of the largest global players is not yet so clear. And in this context, in the case of alternative fuels, in particular electromobility, there is still no strong impetus to concentration, so that new smaller operators still have a chance to exist. I would also like to stress that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which will serve the Low Carbon Transport Fund, will have in its set of objectives support for research institutions as well as innovative native entrepreneurs. The aim of these planned actions is to stimulate the use of public support from Polish companies, whether from the electromobility sector or wider: alternative fuels as well as related industries. We are aware that these are actions with a certain risk, such as all activities in the area of innovation and new markets, but we are convinced that such risks should be taken and some should be addressed by public support. Undoubtedly, such reorientations, such as the electromobile revolution now taking place in front of our eyes, which is undoubtedly a profound change, require courage and willingness to risk. I am convinced that taking this risk is in the interest of not only those ambitious and innovative Polish entrepreneurs who expect support to achieve a better position in the European and global value chain, but also in the interest of all Poles who want to enjoy lower noise levels and clean air in their cities. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u229	Thank you, Minister. Please remain, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Is any of your senators reporting? Senator Dowhan, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u230	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, how much is this project going to cost? I mean, how many people will be employed and what are the costs of this project? Well, that's not gonna happen by itself. Can you tell us that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u231	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u232	Of course, Mr. Senator. Operation of the fund's tasks are costs of about PLN 1.5 million to PLN 2 million per year. These costs, as I mentioned, are minimized, because we will be based on the infrastructure of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, its experience and its working capacity, so to speak, the stream of projects that will flow. This is, if you take into account the income of the fund, as I mentioned in my previous speech, 0.6% budget in 2019 and only 0,021% in 2027. So it's an extremely cost-effective tool.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u233	The question is Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u234	Mr. Marshal, I have a few questions and I may not fit in the first minute. Maybe I'll ask them one at a time and try to get some answers. The first question, in fact, in order not to embarrass the Minister, I would ask you to commit yourself to making a written reply. A while ago, we organized... [[Do you have the microphone on?]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. A while ago, we organized an economic committee. With the help of the Minister, thank you very much. The meeting at which we dealt with a specific matter, the issue of electromobility and this law. And then it was presented the calculation of one of the professors of the Polish Academy of Sciences, who calculated that zero-emission vehicles in reality, in Polish energy, with current produced from the Polish mix, mainly from coal, lignite and others, are more emission-related when it comes to carbon dioxide than vehicles burning gasoline and oil. And since, in the meantime, I have heard that this has been challenged by one of the representatives of the Ministry, I would ask kindly for this calculation to be presented, if possible, and the full algorithm with the signature of the person who did this so that any discussion could be held. That's the first question. [[That'll be a written answer.]] Yes, sir. Now the second request for a written reply. To achieve the goal of Polish electromobility was established by the Ministry, as far as I know Maybe I'm wrong, so I'm sorry if I'm wrong. The company ElectroMobility Poland. I ask the Minister to present in writing what expenditure has been incurred at the various stages of achieving this objective, and he has written down the entities that implement it, including those from outside the country or with branches in the country. What were these expenses, and what objectives of the programme that you were initially planning to achieve have already been met? It's also a request to make a commitment to answer in writing, because this... [[And the third question, Mr. Senator?]] Okay, okay, [[Please.]] If my minute's up, I can wait and ask it in the next round. Third question. In this bill, which we discussed, there are exemptions concerning electromobility in cities concerning clean transport zones. Well, there are exemptions and these exemptions include different services, including. National Tax Administration, however, does not include e.g. Sejm and Senate offices. Don't you really think that the marshal's service... And if there are any celebrations in the city centre, it will prevent the marshal from entering this zone, because the shutdown does not include the Sejm and Senate Office. Another question. With regard to hydrogen, which the Minister had just been gracious to say, in the territory of the Republic of Poland, I stress: no approved vehicle is sold by an authorised vehicle station as a new hydrogen-powered vehicle. So what can we do today? We can only buy second-hand vehicles abroad. Is it therefore the intention of the State to invest in used vehicles from abroad? In the case of Poland, the nearest geographic charging station is in Berlin. This is the third question: is it really your intention to go in this direction? And question four. This has also been raised repeatedly and has not changed. On the one hand, you allow vehicles that are theoretically clean, gas-powered vehicles, you let them into clean transport zones, and on the other hand you do not include hybrid vehicles that can only move on batteries. All you've got is a plug-in hybrid. What does that tell you? Minister, the question is: why aren't these hybrids included here? After all, in a numerical sense in this sector of the economy, as you have just said, the greatest growth is recorded. Why is this largest segment not supported, although it is he who is developing this economy? I mean hybrids.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u235	Thank you, Senator. If you have any further questions, you'll ask them later. And now you may be able to answer the question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Michał Kurtyka: Mr. Senator would like me to answer them in writing. Yes? Because that's how I understood it.]] Two in writing, and the last one's not. [[As the Minister prefers. Minister, if you will. I wouldn't want the Minister here right now... but I would like you to refer to this energy balance. You know, there are doubts. This is a professor of the Polish Academy of Sciences, behind which lies some experience, and above all knowledge, because this is the vice-president of the Energy Commission...]] Mr. Senator, you've already explained that. The Minister would like to respond to that kind of... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Michał Kurtyka: I will answer then...]] ...as far as possible now, and the rest will be explained in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u236	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you very much to the senator, too. Indeed, we organized a seminar where there were representatives of science. There were also representatives of the company about which the senator was gracious to say, ElectroMobility Poland, there were also representatives of the Polish Power Grids. We discussed whether the Polish energy mix or the current generation potential combined with the possibility of its transport, i.e. the available power, can also meet the needs of electromobility. There was indeed a discussion between experts, and I think that if... Of course, we can get into the details, but I think it would be good if I could give the senator a more detailed answer in writing, then we'll have a basis for further discussion. As far as hydrogen is concerned, as I mentioned the previous time we talked about it, we adopted an amendment that said that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways should also take into account the possibility of placing hydrogen filling stations in its planning of alternative fuels infrastructure. So that I assume that this will not go without an echo, and in time also entrepreneurs will be able to take up this challenge. Let me remind you, there must be someone here who's willing to invest. Given the Low Emission Transport Fund, which provides for the possibility of financing gas mobility, but also the development of hydrogen-related issues, it is expected that there will be some type of action here. I think I'll answer the other questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u237	Thank you, Minister. Do you have any further questions? If so, please. [[I mean... from the Sejm Office, the Senate... you don't see the need for this...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u238	As regards the catalogue of entities that are entitled to enter low-carbon transport zones, we assumed that it would be a catalogue constructed primarily by the municipalities' councils. Therefore, this catalog, which has been constructed by law, is such a minimum catalog, it does not contain any ministries. In this case, we wanted to give city leaders the maximum opportunity to define how they wanted to do it. But there is no doubt that there is a discussion about clean transport zones We have called them in the previous version of this law low-carbon transport zones, now we are talking about clean transport zones and we are undergoing some metamorphosis and I would like to thank you very much. We accept further comments, trying to create a tool that will be acceptable to cities. Hence, this directory of entities is left to discretion when it comes to local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u239	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the infrastructure for electricity charging vehicles used in transport. This is one of the tasks you've outlined. Please tell me if a private person, a private owner, will be able to receive your help when he wants to buy a station like this at home. It's not a fast charging station, it's a cheaper one. If so, how much will it be and when are you going to run a program with this kind of funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u242	Thank you very much. As far as infrastructure is concerned, this is primarily an area that is regulated by the Electromobility Act, in which we have removed the need to obtain a concession to be able to use such a charger. Therefore, any private person, any economic operator, will be able to install such a charger and will be able, if he is a private person, to charge for his needs and, if he is an economic operator, to provide such a service. This is because the provision of such a service has so far been subject to the need for a concession. So, in answer to the senator's question, I'm going to say that as far as private individuals are concerned, the development of electromobility and the development of charging opportunities at home will be based on individual funding, possibly financing related to the development of housing infrastructure. A Directive on energy efficiency of buildings has recently been adopted at European Union level, which assumes that all new buildings will also include chargers, e.g. in garages, in parking lots, and everyone will be able to apply such a charger to their needs. With regard to the Low Emission Transport Fund, the first intention is to finance such a basic infrastructure that would be used for public use, and this is 6 000 free charging points, 400 high-speed charging points. These points would be available primarily to the public, i.e. to all users and not just to a single person. In this context, we assume that if a person wants to build a charging infrastructure for their own needs only, it will do so at its own expense, possibly, as I mentioned, on the basis of housing regulations. However, when she is ready to make the charging point publicly available, she will be able to participate in the competitions that will be launched next year by the Low Carbon Transport Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u243	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u244	I'll let you ask me. Just one more thing. Minister, Poland has about PLN 48 billion a year from taxes on fuel sales. And now the assumption is that we're gonna give up selling to electric vehicles that we're gonna subsidize. We will therefore have a deficit. If we give up 10%, then... well, it's easy to count how many billions in the budget will go away. If we add grants to that, it's easy to count how many more hundreds of millions will be spent. How are you gonna compensate for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is not just a concern of the Polish budget, other countries also have this kind of question. I was in Norway recently, and we were discussing it there, because at present 50% new cars in Norway are electric vehicles that are sold there. So that this issue somehow took part in the discussion also in other countries. First of all, I would like to say that this law was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, which is fully aware of the financial implications for the budget. This effect has been calculated by us for the next 10 years, using the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. we have the ability to take up this challenge, which is to engage in the modernisation of mobility in Poland. In this context, of course, there is a decrease on the one hand, but we hope that on the other hand there will also be a stimulation of a new manufacturing chain. Polish producers will be able to advance in these global manufacturing networks. Let us remind you that in such a situation the budget is the beneficiary VAT, for example. Thus, the calculations from the Minister of Finance's point of view are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u247	Are there any more questions? Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u248	I have one question. I mean, I have two questions. One thing that doesn't concern this point is this: is there work in the ministry on this unfortunate excise duty, which was almost abolished, but the noise has become, you know, among the importers who are hauling old cars? Will something change on this subject and we will be able, like all Europe, to buy A new car at normal prices? Can the Minister answer that? Second question. Why do we have to pay, that is, us, users of good cars, cars that meet high standards Because these are the new cars today, no matter what brand it is... So why do users of new cars or high-standard cars have to pay some contributions, tributes, they have to pay after 8 and 10 gr for old cars to drive on our roads too, which should be long since withdrawn, as old cars withdraw from the Western markets?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u249	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. The answer to the first question: it was not the Ministry of Energy that worked on excise duties. I am aware that discussions on these issues are connected, but we did not have such a comprehensive discussion, we did not have the space to engage in it. She's, I think, ahead of us. If that's the will, we can have a discussion about it. Well, I think it's a subject that's gonna get bigger and bigger. However, as I say, this is the domain of the Minister of Finance, we were not involved. This also applies to the answer to the second question. The tax system is now cut based on the vehicle's capacity, not its emissions. The lower emissions associated with the fact that the vehicle is newer are not in any way rewarded against the background of older, more emission vehicles.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u251	Thank you. No further questions. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Pekkis. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn was the first to vote. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u252	Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The Low Carbon Transport Fund will have tasks that are important from an environmental point of view, only that in the hierarchy of what is most important for this protection, these tasks do not necessarily lead. I asked during the committee's deliberations whether you were considering the possibility of introducing a carbon tax instead. That's our problem number one. Of course, these cases are also a problem, but not a problem number one. That's the first line. Second line. I have drawn attention to such dishonesty, which should not happen in the case of serious politicians. It was on the verge of misleading. The Prime Minister comes out, talks about low-carbon transport and electromobility, gives great visions, forgetting, in quotes, that his words should actually sound like this: • You will have all this provided you pay for it, countrymen. I hereby declare the introduction of an additional tax on these dreams. Do you agree to this? That's how it's supposed to be. And so it certainly looks now, when it turns out, of course, that first you have to raise money for all this and that they will not come from anywhere, but as usual from taxpayers' pockets, in this case those who are fueling. This fee is actually a public tribute, so it's an additional tax. We've been paying attention to the fact that it's always been this... Several traffic has been carried out in this area, raising the various parts of the fees and taxes that we pay when buying fuels. It's always been that it's finally reflected on the final price of fuel. Well, it can't be any different. After all, producers and distributors will not pay for this, only customers will pay for it. And I am convinced that, as always, before the rules enter into force, this is already discounted. The opportunity was the front. The situation on the external markets has changed, so it was possible to shove it all nicely and discount yourself the fee that will be introduced, perhaps even with a connection. It's dishonest to say that the one and only charge wouldn't affect the price of fuel. Of course, it is difficult to accurately estimate, hold someone's hand and determine when and how much the price increases. However, it can certainly be said that this is not at the expense of the profits of those involved in production and marketing. Price increases are an increase of not less than the amount of the fee to be paid. Let me stress: in a height of not less. This proposal raises great concerns, all the more so because we have huge resources in the environmental fund. They for other fees will grow very quickly. And then, when the Prime Minister announced his plans, it seemed that it was the money that would be used to do everything. Meanwhile, it turns out there's still not enough in this basket. Or maybe it's that public money, those right out of the budget, in that fund, is supposed to be less about the amounts collected directly in the fuel levy. That would be a simple bill. Because the assurance that these expenditures will definitely increase, there is no indication in this bill. Therefore, the Civic Platform, the senators look at this law with great mistrust and consider it contrary to the declarations which the Law and Justice have made, claiming that none, but it will not introduce any additional fee, but it will not introduce any additional tax. And now we have an example of this truthfulness, we have an example of the realization of these assurances, this is how it looks real today. That's why we don't think these rules are good. We have also raised the question of the Minister's participation in the whole process on biocomponents and biofuels, and we have asked the Minister for Agriculture to be the one involved in the regulation. Well, there is no doubt that with this structure of production of biocomponents expanding their share, any movement in this area will have an impact on what will happen in our fields, what we will collect and what we will devote to. Therefore, it seems to me that the participation of the Minister of Agriculture in these decisions should be guaranteed, and the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture during our deliberations have not seen their participation in the drafting of this law or in its implementation. For these reasons, the Platform in the Sejm with reserve came to this law and we in the Senate try to express such a reserve too. We maintain this position, which is why we do not support this law without refusing good intentions, but that good intentions are one thing and the method of implementation is the other. Minister, I will end with such an appeal: let's get on with what our partners require most of all, too, but let's start with what they require most. Let's reduce carbon dioxide emissions caused by our energy and combustion of coal in furnaces. Let's concentrate on that, that's what the government's resources and energy should go for. Meanwhile, we want to get ahead of Tesla by raising funds from the fuel levy to develop low-carbon transport. In fact, Minister, it may end with the fact that dreams of a technological leap remain largely dreams, and that money to Tesla and other manufacturers will flow from our pockets first to Russia and then to the West, to the highly developed, technologically developed countries that produce electric vehicles. That's probably the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u253	You have a voice, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u254	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Hey, guys! There's no girlfriends... Oh, there you are, there's a friend. Senators! Senator Augustine said practically everything I wanted to say. I would also appeal to focus on what's actually poisonous... [[Applause]] I think someone scored a goal, I think. We should focus on what actually poisons the environment, and this is the least part of today's car and transport, from which Poles profit. I would like to say that transport companies in Poland are the largest in Europe, and provide these services... Tiry averages between 25 and 50 liters of fuel. If we add 10 gr to each liter... It is easy to count the costs these companies will have to bear in order to continue functioning. Is it worth it or not? I'm sure it's a risk, especially since fuel recently, a barrel of oil in the world is more expensive. Also turned the dollar rate, today the dollar probably 1% compared to the Polish gold went up and we have a dollar of almost PLN 3.75, and even recently it was after 3.30. It can stop at 4 zlotys, and it can still go up, so these fuels are gonna be awfully expensive anyway. And we're talking about new technologies here. If it is known that it will be 2.5 billion, if I have heard the Minister well within 10 years, then, Minister, I would like to tell you that similar amounts are invested by car companies in Formula 1 and only apply to one team and invest to promote themselves there in order to test high-tech engines. Not to mention how many companies have invested in creating electric motors that are becoming more and more perfect. We haven't had anybody do it yet. I don't think the money that's gonna be hidden in this fee, whatever it is that they've brought here, because, as I know life, it's gonna spread out to keep a bunch of officials on some unhappened projects. Besides, 2.5 billion is really no amount if you want to create a big project. Also, as an ordinary user of the car that I fill at our stations, I protest that every time I pay for fuel more and more expensive. In a minute... I live at the German border and I want to tell you that the prices for fuel are almost equal today. Once the Germans came to us and there were queues to fuel, and in a moment the situation may be reversed, because the gas will be cheaper for the neighbors. I'm not talking about Ukraine anymore, but if there were no boundaries, the east wall would probably be filling up there because there's twice as much fuel. Nor will I mention the United States, where the barrel is paid for as much as a liter here. This fuel is really expensive, and all of us are... Today, 2, 3 cars are used in the family. I don't know what the point of charging extra taxes to our countrymen is. I'd like to see any minister from the ministry come out for once during this term of office and say that we're lowering something, that we're reducing something. It would certainly be accepted in a positive way. So far, we've only heard about increases, additional fees that are meant to serve some purpose, and the payer is always just a bread eater and the final recipient, that is, every citizen of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u255	You have a voice, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really glad that our predecessors aren't making the changes they've been doing in the past, because the way they've been doing over the years, he's shown that they haven't actually done anything. Maybe they had very, very good ideas and maybe these ideas were described, but it was locked in a drawer and it never came to light. Even if that bill you were talking about, the excise law, Mr. Senator Dowhan... Let me remind you that it was in the hands of your group that this excise duty was raised from 13.6 to 18.6, and the budget that was to gain several billion lost half a billion, about 500 million PLN. Such elementary errors caused it not to develop, but to fold. I am very glad that there was a group of these outstanding people sitting there, which for Poland, for Poles, for our development is very, very difficult and very innovative action. They have undertaken a task that is, what is much to say here, a new task on a global scale. Of course we make mistakes as a country. Those who are watching us can see that. Of course, it is easier to discuss the mistakes that someone else has made. It is easiest to discuss mistakes when comparing to other countries. Anyone who observes the development of electromobility in other countries, especially in Europe, already knows what mistakes are being made. We would like those who make this for us not to make these mistakes, so sometimes our discussions are accompanied by some emotions. Well, there are a lot of European countries. The Minister was talking about Norway. This is a very, very rich country that at some point decided to finance the first 50,000 electric vehicles. How much do you think he's gonna finance? Let me give you an example of one fairly well-known vehicle. Without going into any generals, I'm going to talk specifically about Volkswagen Golf. He on the Polish market in the basic petrol version costs less than 70 thousand, in the electric version. 167 thousand. On the Norwegian market, where it was decided to bet on the development of electromobility, the electric version was after the government co-financed cheaper than the cheapest fuel version. Of course, it was a clear impulse: buy electric vehicles. They were just cheaper. But this project of 50,000 vehicles on the Norwegian market ends. A similar project was carried out on the Danish market. Unfortunately, after the completion of such a project, it is not so that, as with momentum, society still buys these electrics. Well, they stop paying money, and their owners have very specific burdens, they have very specific obstacles to moving such vehicles. You just have to refuel them and therefore there is no such a smooth passage. This means that without pure financial incentive in developing countries, to which Poland belongs, it will simply be unrealistic. I would also like to give you very important, I think, information relating to zero emissions. Now we're not talking about zero emissions, we're talking low emissions. Why? As the Professor, a habilitated doctor, a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, energyists, the emission of electric vehicles in the case of the production of electricity from Polish coal, in the Polish mix, is, as far as carbon dioxide is concerned, greater than in the case of a vehicle burning oil or fuel. And it's been calculated. This calculation is on the pages of the Senate, the economic committee, and it can be verified. In other words, I'm talking about carbon dioxide production. If we buy an electric vehicle in Poland today and power it from our network, it will be more emission than a diesel or petrol-powered vehicle. This will be the case with Poland. And that's without doubt, it's calculated, it's shown. It is a question of efficiency, calorific values, and it is difficult to discuss with it. Of course, we would like that not to be the case, and therefore we must change our energy economy. We need to refocus it on production on the one hand, low-carbon, and cheap on the other. We cannot rely on the fact that we will produce pure energy, but subsidised by the Polish state in 300%, because it will ultimately be so expensive that charging the car will simply be economically unjustified. We, as a government, as a state, as parliamentarians, are to provide the Pole with a relatively cheap energy medium, the cheapest as possible, available and stable. And whether people will want to fuel cars with this carrier will depend on Poland not on whether Poles want to be ecological, but whether Poles will simply, in human terms, be able to afford it. And there's no more philosophy in all of this. And now a few more comments on carbon dioxide and what Germany has imposed on us, indirectly through Western Europe. Germany is currently in the process of verifying its own plans, imposed on itself, for carbon dioxide emissions. It is already widely known that Germany will not meet its commitments to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 2020. Germany has set up a special parliamentary committee in the last month to explain the reasons why this will not be fulfilled, because it will not be fulfilled. Germany has very well mediated the issue of informing the public that their environment is green and clean. For example, this year The last two hard coal mines in Germany will be closed, but at the same time the hard coal plants are not closed. What does that mean? Germans buy this coal quite cleverly abroad, they are an importer of coal It's a first. Secondly, there is a big shout in Poland when someone, do not give God, raises his hand in the forest, e.g. In Białowieża. And this great scream from Poland was that, so to speak, exported to the European Union, we were beaten there, screamed: what we do with this forest, cut it out... What's going on in Germany? Germany for the development of the energy economy, for lignite And this is the most high-carbon energy factor, you can say straight away: this is the worst thing that can be They cut out the ancient forest. Now I don't know if I'm gonna twist the name, because I don't know... That's where they cut out the ancient forest. It's the same as if we in Poland decided to cut out the entire Białowieża Forest, because underneath it would be brown coal. And that's where it happens. And now, if someone is developing their economy, energy based on the most primitive source of energy, which is brown coal, there is no way that they will comply with their carbon emission standards imposed by them. So if parliamentarians are responsible and they talk about fulfilling their obligations to the European Union, then the first thing that should be done is to check those who imposed those obligations. It is well known that the Germans have now set up a committee in the Bundestag to explain this, not to solve this problem. They want to explain what to do, not how to solve the problem. And that's known, too. Because one interesting thing about them is that they don't hide from it, that is, they're truthful to the pain. About... Why is there so much talk about energy? Because the entire development of electromobility will be based on the development of energy. Since we are assuming such a large increase in the electromobility of consumers, we need to predict the amount of electricity produced in the grid for these customers. If you're assuming that in five years we'll have plus 5 GW in energy consumption, you'd have to make a decision today to build carbon blocks. Because if you wanted to produce this energy from an atom, it would have to be decided five years back. True, the decision to build a nuclear power plant has been made long ago, but no other steps have followed. In other words, it's still a dream. So if we're planning a 10-year power consumption plus 10 GW, let's see. Being responsible for the development of Poland and Poles Where are those 10 GWs coming from? I know, I know this translation that Poles will consume less energy. But why should the Poles consume less of it? Let me put it another way: we already know that this translation is so false that it is not based on facts. Why am I talking about this? Because we have a date that is significant for Polish energy: 4 June 2018 The day on which the maximum energy consumption exceeded any forecast. Ladies and gentlemen, if we've put it in quotes "For the market..." [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time.]] I'm off because... [[Time.]] I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u257	Yeah, we're done. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 843, and the report of the Commission In print No 843 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Mr Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee... Senator Elephant isn't here. [[Where is he?]] He's here somewhere, isn't he? 2 minutes break, ladies and gentlemen. In a moment, the Senator rapporteur should be able to reach us. [[Does the senator know yet?]] Excuse me? [[Does he know?]] Well, you're calling the senator. [[Voice from the room: In 5 minutes it will be.]] [[I am.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment, Mr. Senator Elephant will be joining us. Now we are considering item 17 of the agenda, and I think that if there is no objection, we can do so. The Act on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. [[Voice from the room: We'll be on the phone in five minutes. I can't reach him.]] [[Where is he?]] But here... [[But who, Elephant or Wacha?]] [[Voice from the room: Wacha.]] [[Okay.]] ...made in Geneva on 10 May 1973. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 848 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 848 A and 848 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union... Please, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, would you like to report? [[Yes.]] There you go. To 17th, right? [[Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal...]] Senator Wojtyla. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u258	I would like to present the position of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Act presented to the Senate on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. The Scientific, Education and Sport Committee held a discussion on this subject. You also spoke from the Ministry of Science. The discussion largely concerned the purpose of joining this agreement, especially as regards the contribution that Poland has to pay. During the discussion it was concluded that the profits and benefits of this agreement exceed the contribution that the Polish government has to pay annually, which is linked to the accession of this agreement. The bill was adopted by the committee, most of the senators voted in favour. During the discussion, the history of the creation of this laboratory was presented. It was established in 1973 by the European Molecular Biology Organisation, which was established in 1964 and now has 1 000 200 members from Europe and 100 members from other parts of the world. There are 38 Nobel Prize winners among scientists. Poland is currently participating in the work of this organisation. There is a Polish network of molecular biology coordinated by the Institute of Experimental Biology. Nenty P.A. Since 1992 Polish scientists have received scholarships. There are at least a dozen such scientists who have already received scholarships from this laboratory, which lasts for 12 and 24 months or 1 and is short-term, for the purpose of carrying out research. It is. I'm sure the Minister will tell you even more. At the moment, it is located in 5 locations in Europe. Since 1997 he has had the right to give a doctor's degree. I ask the High Senate to adopt this law without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u259	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla reported on behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Now I will ask Senator Piotr Wach to present a report to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union dealt with this law on 20 June this year. I think my predecessor discussed the matter more or less. Perhaps it is worth saying that this institute and the agreement have been for 45 years, that is, since 1973. We've been a prospective member lately, and now we're reporting full access. There was also talk of costs associated with this. During the meeting of the Foreign Welds Committee, there was a question about costs and there was a question about the budgetary portion from which it is financed. From the part of Science, or the part of 28. In fact, the senators did not have any comments or reservations during the short discussion. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously supported the proposal to adopt this law without amendments. I recommend it to the Senate anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: No, thank you.]] No. Good. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. [[Nobody signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. You are already a Senator rapporteur, so we are now returning to item 16 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 843, and the report of the Commission In print No 843 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, adopted by the Sejm on 7 June this year, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017. Mr. Marshal of the Senate sent the bill to the committee on 8 June 2018. After considering this law at its meeting on 20 June, the committees request the adoption of this law. High Senate, the conclusion of the Polish-Turkish social security agreement is part of the European Union's policy on the external dimension of coordination of social security systems. So far there have been no legal regulations in the field of social security between Poland and the Republic of Turkey. The agreement provides the basis for Polish-Turkish cooperation, providing insurance protection to Polish citizens residing or working in Turkey, of course with reciprocity. The agreement between Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security takes into account international standards in the field of social security and its rules are based on the basic principles of system coordination, i.e. the principle of equal treatment, the principle of preserving acquired rights and the principle of summing up periods of social security. The scope of the contract is also covered by unemployment benefits, family benefits, social security benefits and social security benefits of farmers for sickness and maternity, old age benefits, incapacity benefits, benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases, compensation and death benefits, survivor's pensions, funeral allowances. The agreement will also apply to legislation on compulsory insurance. The High Senate, the government's bill of ratification, entered the Sejm on 12 February this year and was addressed to the first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Commission adopted the draft report as contained in the submission of the Seym Paper No 2494. The second reading took place at the 60th session of the Sejm. At the same meeting, on 7 June this year, the Sejm adopted Act 427 in favour, with no votes against. Two senators have stopped. The Act raises no legislative doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy are with us. Do the ministers wish to speak? [[Voice from the room: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. None of you come forward. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, drawn up in Munich on 18 February 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 844, and the report of the Commission In print No 844 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the same meeting I mentioned earlier, i.e. On 20 June this year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union examined the law on the approval of the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement referred to in the title. This deal is a deal. Your Marshal was also polite to read the date of its preparation in 2017, i.e. it belongs to new contracts. This is the first establishment of contractual relations between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. The Agreement covers comprehensive cooperation and is the basis for the European Union's commitment to support the development of this country, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. It covers both issues related to security in general, such as combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, civil society building or combating terrorism, as well as issues of broad sectoral cooperation, covering a number of areas such as energy, transport, health, natural resources, taxes, education, culture, social issues, and is therefore of a general nature. Although this is an EU agreement, the Treaty requires Member States to agree individually, in our case, by ratifying this agreement. As for the committee meeting, there was a very short discussion on it. You spoke with Senator Klich, who had much to do with Afghanistan during his duties as Minister of National Defence. Firstly, he expressed his support for this law, secondly, asking questions about the current situation in Afghanistan and the state of cooperation. The Commission has unanimously supported the bill and recommends that the Senate adopt it and that the agreement be ratified by this means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Mr. Senator, stay where you are. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The question is simple. Will it cost us, and how long will it cost us? Are there any expenses planned in connection with this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u267	Description and questions... Maybe. Ratification usually doesn't cost us anything. At the committee meeting there was no discussion about the involvement of the European Union, the European Union budget or the European Union's assistance programmes for Afghanistan. It might happen, but that question didn't come up. It doesn't cost us anything directly. I would add that the conclusion of this agreement also does not require changes in Polish law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u268	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration in order to present the government's position? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would repeat this question and address it to the Minister. [[Minister...]] Perhaps from the point of view, the Minister can respond quickly. Will we bear any costs in connection with this ratification, of course, in the future? Are we going to help Afghanistan? In what form? Are we gonna have to contribute to this deal? And if not us, will the European Union contribute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u270	Mr. Senator, High Izbo, this agreement has no effect on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u271	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I can't see. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. So I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 24 November 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 845, and the committee report In print No 845 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, at the same meeting on 20 June the ratification process was discussed. Please note that this law has a different title, that is, a strengthened agreement, and that the European Atomic Energy Community is also involved, is a party to this agreement. The agreement is also new, from 2017. The Agreement covers political and trade cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and Armenia and, as previously, concerns a number of issues which are slightly different but similar. In fact, they address security issues, namely the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems, the deepening of dialogue, the building of civil society, the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, it is a sectoral agreement covering a number of sectors, including law, cooperation on migration, asylum and border management, economic cooperation, energy, agriculture, rural development, etc. As in the previous case, it requires ratification by the Member States. Maybe by way of a heads-up... And we didn't ask that at the committee meeting. We did not ask about the need and purpose of involving the European Atomic Energy Community in this agreement, actually guessing that this area is. I'm sure Armenia, because I don't know for sure, owns a nuclear power plant or some other facilities related to the processing of nuclear energy and radioactive materials. During the committee meeting, this agreement and the ratification issue did not trigger any special discussion. It is noted that this agreement does not have legal effects requiring changes in Polish law. The Commission unanimously adopted its position I recommend this position to the Senate. To adopt a ratification law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the position of the Government. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint consideration of items from the 20th to the 30th agenda: the Act on the termination of mutual support and investment protection agreements concluded between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Greece, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Bulgaria, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Hungary, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Latvia. The texts of the laws are in prints from 849 to 860 and the Commission's reports In print from 849 A to 860 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee on the laws under consideration. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which held on 20 June 2018 a debate on the laws leading to the conclusion of bilateral agreements between the Polish State and Greece, Spain, Finland, Germany, Bulgaria, Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Austria, Lithuania, Croatia, Hungary, Sweden and Latvia, and the Senate prints from 849 to 860. These agreements concern the provision of full protection to an investor from a given country in the territory of the second country and the possibility of redress against international arbitration tribunals on disputes. The agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union are currently being challenged by the European Commission due to their non-compliance with European Union law. The European Commission is concerned that the provisions of the agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, including those concluded, are in line with those of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The European Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes, as it believes that this is contrary to the exclusive competence of the courts of the European Union. The content of these acts is practically one-sounding. They agree that the President of the Republic of Poland terminates the agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the relevant country on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. These laws shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The different text concerns only one law on relations with Latvia, in which the agreement gives the possibility of ratification, and therefore the content of the agreement reads "The President of the Republic of Poland is hereby authorised to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement, etc. The Commission has unanimously supported each of these laws and recommends that the High House adopt them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you very much. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? Minister? I'm asking Minister Piotr Wawrzyk again. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. But the Excellency is with us, isn't he? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Tadeusz Kościński: Tadeusz Kościński, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology.]] Excuse me, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Tadeusz Kościński: Opalony.]] Yes. Excuse me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We had a signal that the ambassador would be here. Excuse me. Hello, Minister. Do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Tadeusz Kościński: No. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. But I have to ask the senators a question, because maybe you gentlemen, the senators want to ask the ministers. Are you Senator Jerzy Czerwinski? You're welcome. [[Unfortunately, Mrs. Marshal.]] What a stetha. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u276	Stety, right? High Izbo! I have a question about the expiry of the agreement between us and the United Kingdom of Great Britain. The United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. Aren't we in a bit of a hurry? Is there anything that's gonna regulate... Are we gonna make a new deal? How's this gonna end?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u277	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u278	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The intra-EU agreements are currently concerned with this discussion, because everyone in the European Union is equal and there is no possibility for one country to have an agreement with another country and to have better conditions for its investors. During the negotiations between the Union and the United Kingdom on brexitu, an agreement will be concluded between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which will together protect Poland's investments in the UK and the United Kingdom in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u279	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask the senator? [[No.]] Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a joint discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the joint discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you, gentlemen. Just a little bit longer, huh? Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a 10-minute recess, until 18.52 p.m., because Mr Jarosław Szarek, President of the Institute of National Remembrance, is on his way to us, and the next item on the agenda is item thirty-six, which includes information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. So 10 minutes off, to 18.52. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 42 to 18 minutes 45]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you are already the president, whom I very warmly welcome... Hello, Mr. Chairman. [[Voice from the room: Let's continue.]] Yes, we will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. The text of the information is contained in print No 825. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 7 June 2018, the Commission heard the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance present at the Senate meeting of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, Mr Jarosław Szark. Welcome, Mr. President. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u280	Good morning. [[Good morning, Mr. President.]] Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Institute of National Remembrance in 2017 began its first year of activity after the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which was introduced on 16 June 2016. This amendment of the Act is primarily the introduction of a new structure of the Institute of National Remembrance and therefore new obligations imposed on the Institute of Memory. This change of structure is primarily two new offices The Office of Search and Identification and the Office of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. The Act also divided the Public Education Office into the Historical Research Office and the National Education Office. At the same time, the chronological scope of the Institute of National Remembrance was increased, earlier it was the years 1939 and 1989, after the amendment of the Act it was 1917 and 1989. In this new shape, after statutory changes, the Institute of National Remembrance consists of 7 offices, about 2 000 300 employees, 11 branches. Among these 7 offices is the Archive of the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. the heart, the foundation of the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance, 92 km act after the former communist security apparatus. Last year, 2017, it was, in addition to this standard activity of the archive, a new, powerful challenge facing the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. It was related to the enforcement of laws imposed on the Institute of National Remembrance... First of all, it's about the debubecism bill. It was a huge effort for the archive, because it is about 200 thousand queries, a query and an issue to the Pension and Rent Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of nearly 50,000 information about the course of the service. Next, which was carried out in 2017, another such activity related to the new law, so-called. The Veteran Act, that's 13,000 information about opposition activists. This shows how the Institute of National Remembrance's archives have been performed by employees of the Institute of National Remembrance in addition to this normal activity. In some cells, increases in applications, e.g. For the release of documents... The number of incoming applications is 47 times higher than in 2016. The archives of the Institute of National Remembrance have taken new action. Such a very important element of activity is the project, which is called the Full Remembrance Archiwum. Information coming from abroad showed that many invaluable documents, some home archives, are so particularly foreign, and this applies to subsequent generations It's spent on scrap metal. The young generation living abroad no longer knows the Polish language. We launched the Full Remembrance Archiwum project to make documents that are often priceless, among others. After the quiet or after soldiers of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, transfer to the Institute of National Remembrance. As part of this action from nearly 250 people we received a legacy, which is already documented and is available on the website of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen, another activity of the archive is the editing of documents, publications and extensive archival cooperation with the counterparts of the Institute of National Remembrance abroad, as well as with other archival research facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, after the division of the Public Education Office, two more offices were created At the Historical Research Office, nearly 170 scientists, historians conduct research in 14 central research projects. The largest ones of course concern research of the security apparatus of the Polish People's Republic, the relations of the State of Poland, the Polish United Workers' Party, Polish-Jewish relations, World War II and the eastern lands of the Republic of Poland. There were several dozen scientific conferences last year. Maybe I'll tell you about the two most important ones. The first conference was organized together with the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Institute of History of Lithuania in Vilnius on the hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the birth of Marshal Piłsudski. I think that this was one of such groundbreaking actions in the field of historical research, activities carried out together with Lithuanians. In Vilnius, we talked about the importance of Marshal Piłsudski's character on the hundred and fiftyth anniversary of his birthday. The fact that Józef Piłsudski has been judged very critically by some Lithuanians, even treated as an occupier, can testify to the importance of this conference. Nevertheless, together with the Lithuanians, we managed to organize a conference in the city hall, in the centre of Vilnius, to which the Lithuanian Prime Minister sent a letter. The second international conference took place in Belvedere with the participation of the President of the Republic of Poland. It was attended by scientists from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, the United States. It was a scientific conference devoted to an unknown issue, i.e. operation of the Polish NKVD. Last year was the eighty-year anniversary of the operation of the Polish NKVD, the operation carried out after the Soviet security issued on 11 August 1937 by Nikolai Jeżow, an order which resulted in at least 111 thousand of our compatriots being murdered in the territory of the Soviet Union. Some historians believe that... these 111,000 are known by name. There were convictions against them. Often they died for having Polish names. It was an apogee of terror in the 1930s. This operation lasted for over a year, and in Poland it is completely unknown. For 2 days just historians from Russia And thanks to them, these documents about this operation arrived in Poland. The scientists were wondering, discussing this operation. But, as I say, it was the 80th anniversary, and the operation is completely unknown. The Institute of National Remembrance has taken many initiatives to reach the public, and especially schools, the knowledge of this operation. I would remind you that if, as a result of the Katyn crime, what we call the Katyn crime, more than 20,000 people were murdered, but as a result of this operation 5 times as much, and yet in the public consciousness it does not exist at all. As a result, the investigative unit began its investigation. And here is a very interesting case, because it has reached many, well, already intermediate, witnesses. We received many historical reports from close relatives who were then murdered. But there is a publication, made, among others. together with Georgian historians, documents about Poles murdered during this operation in Georgia. There are, ladies and gentlemen, celebrations in Ukraine in Żytometer. It was one of those regions of Poland where Poles were mass murders. And there last year, the Institute of National Remembrance organized classes for Polish young people, the exhibition was organized by these young people to commemorate these victims. We have given prizes to these young people. In addition, for the first time, together with the Veterans' Office, we organized national ceremonies at the Memorial of the Fallen and Murdered in the East on 11 August. This year, once again, for the second time, the Polish state will celebrate this day. In addition, there is a website on which there are 25 thousand names of people who were murdered at the time, 1/4 of the names of our compatriots who were murdered 80 years ago. And the most important thing, I think, is the educational file that got to every high school, thanks to cooperation with the Ministry of National Education, describing this operation. These are hundreds of pages of text, documents, photographs of this operation. Every high school in Poland, this portfolio has arrived. And it's important. For this restoration of memory we have also involved several institutions. E.g. with the Polish Post Office, we published a series of... The Polish Post Office issued, but together with us, an inspired by us, a postmark of 30 million copies, commemorating the victims of this operation. The exhibition on the Polish Operation was shown in Polish Post Offices in voivodship cities. Besides, this is a model of the possibilities of the Institute of National Remembrance: when several offices are involved in these activities, this is what we achieve. I think in a few years. This knowledge will be greater in Poland. 'Cause if we add extras to the papers, which is popularization... Well, it's been going on for many years by the National Remembrance Institute. Last year, among others. there were allowances devoted to the Augustan manhunt. In the 100th anniversary of the October Revolution, there were 250 thousand copies of the allowance devoted to communism, the communist inheritance. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are already touching the educational activity. These are, ladies and gentlemen, dozens of countries here have precise statistics of workshops, competitions, youth rallies. It's such a little spectacular, but organic everyday work with young people, with teachers from the Institute of National Remembrance. But, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2018 is special, it's the year of the century of regaining independence. We do not want this to be a celebration, we want reflection, what independence is, to reach millions of Poles, especially young people, because it is up to us to have our future. That is why we have about 450 initiatives related to the anniversary of regaining independence. We started them last year in December in a special place, in the Guardian, in a small village near Limanowa, where there was an officer's school of the Shooting Union. Several dozens of people, among others. Piłsudski, Sosnkowski, passed through this school, the elite school started in 1913. Or a significant part of the elite derived from the legions of the Second Republic. And in the Guardians in front of this school, the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom of the Institute of National Remembrance placed a billboard with an authentic photograph from 100 years ago, one of the companies, then trained there, headed by the lieutenant Pomarański, who later died at Huntchówek. And today, young people, walking into and out of this school, look every day at the faces of their ancestors 100 years ago. Why the Guardian? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the idea of the Institute of National Remembrance at all for celebrating this anniversary and those years ahead of us. We believe that a great story is not only happening in big cities. We want to get this story into small towns, get it out of these... There are heroes, there's that memory. Hence the Guardian and hence many such local initiatives. We want to show young people that they can be proud of their village, their small town, because their local history has been touched by great people, because that is where the great story was born. And, ladies and gentlemen, that's why we started this project. Because we want the young people to get involved with the generations of their great-grandfathers, grandparents, great-grandfathers. That's why it's such an idea. On the Internet, we have a list of 88,000 honored by the Cross of Independence. This cross is the premonition of the Cross of Liberty and Solidarity, which today we honor the people of the anti-communist opposition, the solidarity of voluntary, rural, NZS. It's a contest idea. We started it in December. A few hundred jobs came in. After the success of the film, the invincible four-and-a-half-minute animation, which has so far seen tens of millions of people, such in short Polish history of the 20th century, we proposed young people: look for these heroes, your grandparents, graduates of schools, neighbors honored by the Independence Cross and prepare such short, four-and-a-half-minute videos on your smartphone or on your iPhone. In September we start a new edition of this competition. But we started at the Guardians. Also, this December just... The guardian was a symbolic place, but we wanted to reach this provincial Poland, in the positive sense of this word, to the county Poland. Hence the initiative of the Academy of Independence, the initiative of lectures in small towns In Lancut, Bochni, Jawor, Zgorzelec, Piotrków Trybunalski, Gietrzwald, Wejherów, Chełmnie. There are dozens of such places where every month since December open lectures are held, to which people interested in history come. Excellent historians scientists, often our employees or people from outside the Institute of National Remembrance, talk about history, about this story 100 years ago in such a national but also local perspective, depending on the place. We have, for example. information that in Zgorzelec about 1,000 young people 'Cause it's also addressed to schools 'cause it's going to take part in the lectures of the Academy of Independence. This will continue in the coming years. At the same time, the Guardian is the beginning of our action of such an element of regaining independence. It is an exhibition dedicated to the fathers of independence, prepared in Polish and English. Fathers of independence, i.e. Piłsudski, Dmowski, Paderewski, Witos, Korfanty, Daszyński. The exhibition, which will be shown this year, started in May, although we even started last year in the Guardians In more than 130 places. These are cities, the largest workplaces, but also abroad. Already this year... I'm not gonna talk about this anymore, but we're showing this exhibition from Canada to Australia. This is the result of cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because as part of our educational activities, we are working with many institutions. Cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with which we have signed agreements, is very broad here. Well, shipping our educational materials... Over the years, our offer has been addressed mainly to our compatriots, we treat them as our best ambassadors outside Poland. Therefore, such an initiative, so-called. Stops history. We started this 10 or 11 years ago, here on the street. Marshal's. Perhaps you know this educational centre at Marshalkowska, now it is the centre of them. Janusz Kurtyki, there is a stop and hence the name of the stop History. Such stops were created in Poland several dozens, and last year we went further abroad. Brussels, Washington, Grodno, and then Minsk, it's just last year. As part of this there are activities for young people, for schools, for our compatriots living outside Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also exhibitions. Last year, nearly 30 new exhibitions were created. One of the most famous is Zegota, prepared for the anniversary of the Council of Help for Jews, shown in Poland, also shown abroad. It runs beyond the time of the report, but I will say that this year, recently, we showed it in Australia, in Melbourne, along with the exhibition about the Rotmaster Pilecki and the Ulm family. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look statistically, last year the Institute of National Remembrance showed a total of 180 exhibitions. There are two new departments, two new offices, memorial offices. This is a new form of activity. These are commemorations, among others. commemoration of the activist, the opposition; commemoration on the wall of the prison in Olszynka Grochowska. It is a plaque on the royal route in Krakow dedicated to victims of the so-called. Polish operation, the first one so large, in a very symbolic place, at the foot of the Katyn Cross, next to the plaque dedicated to Polish exiles to the Soviet Union. It's a triptych of our golf in the East. It is also a plaque unveiled last year on the Wolyński square dedicated to Poles, victims of genocide in Volhynia and eastern Małopolska. These are dozens of similar initiatives in Poland and abroad. You have an accurate inventory here. And another office, which, I think, has one of the greatest social reactions, is the Office of Search and Identification directed by Professor Szwagrzyk. Last year the search continued in 37 places, among others. On the Link, they've been completed. We entered new places, Ukraine, Belarus. We had to withdraw from Ukraine, but in Belarus, by the Belarusian authorities it was very well received, there was a solemn funeral of the soldiers of the KOP, the Border Protection Corps from the guards of That was last year. The Office of Search and Identification are also exhibitions. One of the most important ones is the Pantheon under the cemetery wall, an exhibition on the Link, shown in many places. In addition, there are other offices, in short. I'll answer some specific questions later... The Mirror Bureau, of course. These are the next tens of thousands of catalogs available on the Internet, catalogs of PZPR officers, people being repressed or security cameras officers, this is the law enforcement committee... there are new investigations, these are the biggest ones I've already talked about. Polish operation, Ravensbrück, the murder of Piotr Bartoszcze... The exact inventory is in the report you received. So much for a telegraph shortcut like that. This is a book, as you can see, very thick. I just made a superficial presentation of this activity last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. President a question? Senator Sławomir Rybicki and then Marshal Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. President, two hours ago, the Senate decided to amend the IPN Act. This law entered into force in January of this year, but its roots go deeper than that in 2017 with a permanent consultation prior to the implementation of this project under the Sejm. I would like to ask the President whether the IPN, Mr President, was involved in the consultation in the drafting of this legislation, or at least in the discussion on the sense of its entry into legal circulation. We know that the assessment of this law is devastating and its consequences are very damaging to the opinion about Poland in many cases. I would like to ask if the President had the opportunity to take part in the consultation on this law or on the purpose of introducing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u283	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Institute of National Remembrance did not take part in such consultations during my term of office. During my predecessor's term of office, there was one question about the meaning of such a law. The opinion, which was presented, was, in short, positive, that the Polish state must have some legal instrument that will allow it to respond to the lies appearing on the international stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u285	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u286	I would therefore like to ask your opinion of the President. Do you identify with this opinion? The criticism of this law in this room two hours ago was quite common. I would like to ask your personal opinion as President, who took office at a time when this law had already been processed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u287	Mr. Senator, at the Institute of National Remembrance, we have adopted such a principle that we do not apply, do not participate in political discourse and we do not discuss the legislative process of the sovereign parliament, the Sejm and the Senate. Of course, everyone has an opinion, but we are a state institution and we are obliged to enforce laws. And that's the case with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! I remember your support for this bill, as expressed in a television statement a few months ago, five months ago, when this law was processed here. Did I make a mistake? Didn't you go on TV that night? That's the first question. Second question. Mr. President, was it because this bill was being processed today that you were invited to the Senate committee meeting and to the Senate meeting on this matter? Were you invited to this point, or were you not invited? [[Mr. Marshal, the second question is different from what your president said today, because you're reporting last year, but if...]] I get it, but I'm not gonna ask you that next year. This is today's case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u290	Mr. President, would you care to comment on these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u291	First of all, I don't know what kind of television you're talking about, but I always... [[On public television.]] ...always... always... But here we'd have to reach for that recording, Mr. Marshal, because always... I believe in the Polish state, and this is the decision of the Polish state, the appropriate authorities, to have an instrument to defend my good name. And if such a sentence is considered to support this law, then that is what I said. But, as I say, I directly And that also applies to my deputies. I didn't say anything about this bill. We're... I stress this once again: we are from implementing laws that arise in a sovereign parliament. About the second question: I wasn't invited.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u292	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'd like to dig into the subject and say... Because I respect what you say about the law-making in Poland by the sovereign parliament of the Republic of Poland, but we must be aware that public consultation is an important element of law-making in Poland. These public consultations consist in the fact that various entities, entities involved in the implementation of individual laws in Poland, can, not only can, but should also speak about regulations which will sanction the functioning of one or another entity or, more broadly, the entire community of the Polish state. So I have a question: don't you think that you, as the Institute of National Remembrance, should be involved in the drafting of these laws? And then, if you were to participate alive in this process, perhaps we would avoid the situation that took place, the situation which was compromising the Polish state, which was disturbing the relations between Poland and the United States or Poland and Israel, and, I think, not very well testifying also about Polish diplomacy. Because you will admit that the proper note from the State Department was sent to the Foreign Minister, and the Minister of Justice, who hosted this act, ignored it. Perhaps if this consultation had taken place with you, and if it had been at the right level, in the right way, it would not have been the situation that we unfortunately had to endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u294	Mr. President has already, I believe, answered this question in an exhaustive manner. But you're welcome... Do you have anything to add, Mr President, on this point, about the bill, the amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I will uphold my position, but I will say, Mr. Senator, only one thing: today we have the situation that we have, the existence of this law in this previous form is already in the past. The Institute of National Remembrance will not participate in political discourse. However, we can think about what we can do as an Institute of National Remembrance to raise our knowledge, e.g. about World War II in Poland and what the Polish state should do in this area. Because, ladies and gentlemen, And that's what we have to say. If it weren't for dozens of previous omissions resulting from the functioning of the communist system here, and then from some kind of dislike of the past... If we had an active policy all the time Not only as the Institute of National Remembrance, but it would be so in all state structures. And if they were built abroad environments friendly to Poland, the environment... And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to happen in a week, a month, in one term, because it's a long process. If we were creating an environment of artists, journalists, elites in Western countries, our own party in any such country of environments friendly to Poland, and if we could speak with our voice in such situations, I think... Now we need to think about it, we need to create some scholarship projects for foreign journalists, for foreign scientists. You have to invite them to Poland, you have to show them our history. Yes, you do. This is a time-consuming process and a process that requires a lot of investment, but we need to create Polish cathedrals at universities, we need to take care of the promotion of our culture, our art. We, as the Institute of National Remembrance, can point out some things, give some materials, but we don't have the tools to show it in the world. When I go abroad, there are demands for us everywhere: write books about the history of Poland, translate these books. Only I always answer: the book of the Polish author, hence, will not make an impression, even translated in the United States. I say: countries, Polonia there, in the United States there are several million, after all you have your friends, friends, neighbors at universities. If they write the history of Poland from that perspective, they will show what the reality of World War II looked like here, then it will be a completely different reception. But it is necessary, as I say, many years of work, activity and it is the whole Polish country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u296	Mr President, it is difficult to disagree with you on what you said at the moment, and I agree with that. I asked Mr Moravian Prime Minister, among others. about the action of the Polish National Foundation, which in fact does not deal with what it should. I don't want to ask you about the Polish National Foundation and put you in a difficult situation, but I want to ask you 'Cause like I said, it's hard to disagree with you. Whether you will prepare for the next year an action programme that will allow you to change this image, the perception of Poland in this context, which is the subject of the IPN Act. 'Cause I think this prevention and building a certain consciousness inside... This is also important, of course, but with this awareness of Poles it is much better than beyond our borders. Will you prepare such activities? Shouldn't you build some kind of cooperation, e.g. with such an institution as the Polish National Foundation and with other entities, perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Polish institutions, and prepare a wide-ranging action raising awareness of the international community about those issues which arouse so much emotion and allow us to adopt such and not others, unfortunately unfortunate, acts of law? I think this is an important direction, too, and that should be discussed within the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u297	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u298	Mr. Senator, only that the Institute of National Remembrance was called for something else and that we are also active abroad, it is as if our choice and we have been doing this for many years, as far as possible. We have with many countries, with many universities scientific exchanges, our books are also printed in English. Please note, Ladies and gentlemen, that printing a book in a foreign language, English, German is not a problem, because we live in such conditions that technologically publishing a book... a book can be published in a few days. The problem is to distribute this book so that this book can be read so that it can get there. It has to be released there, by a publishing house that has a distribution network. Ladies and gentlemen, hypothetically, we can spend a book on a $10,000 bill and take it away, except it won't be distributed, it'll be in storage somewhere. These are issues that need to be considered, a long-term strategy is needed here. Ladies and gentlemen, we are an enormous effort, that is quite... Part of us criticized that it was such a primitive, superficial, our video, the Invincible, 4.5 minutes, the story of World War II in English in a pill. Well, he was very well received all over the world. We spent giant money on it, but we could make one of those movies because that's our ability. We can't afford it anymore, and around this movie... This four and a half minutes old movie was supposed to be just the beginning of an educational program. Look, there's no name coming up, but there are some characters, there's Captain Pilecki, Irena Sendlerov. For each of these figures, for each element, Katyn, the Polish Underground State, the Solidarity, John Paul II, there was supposed to be a separate video about this segment. Besides, it is, I mean. Not a movie, but there's educational information about it. Only these are things, ladies and gentlemen... We can publish the book. But making movies like this... Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to promote Poland outside the borders of the country, then you know, gentlemen of the Senators, that this must be excellent production, because that is the only way to happen. And these are powerful expenditures. But, as we speak, as we speak... Please note that all such... Because we know that the world is changing, we live in a time when a mass culture, which is such superficiality, plays a major role in popularization. So we're making videos for the Internet. There was a movie about the Ulm family saving the Jews. We make this video in English right away. For a young generation... Ladies and gentlemen, the young generation no longer watches TV. Their medium is the Internet and it actually spreads very quickly around the world. E.g. Around the movie "Invincible," those 4.5 minutes, now... Last week we probably finished a big educational project in Canada. Nearly a thousand Polish students participated in the screenings of this film, in the implementation of the entire educational project focused on this film. They've got... That's our way right now. After all, they live in the neighborhood of Canadians or representatives of other nations. If they know the history of Poland, they will be proud of it, they will tell it. Here's another question: getting to a mature audience with a mass culture. Here are necessary other, ladies and gentlemen, productions. We, as far as we can... Ladies and gentlemen, these are also things that cost a lot, but we're still trying to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Victorian Parliament in Melbourne a few weeks ago, Vice President Jan Baster opened 3 exhibitions in Melbourne in the company of his fellow Members: Rotmaster Pilecki, the Ulm family and Zegota. We are already doing exhibitions in Polish and English. And these exhibitions are so popular that they will be transported to Canberry. Well, that's how we do it. My deputy, Dr. Mateusz Szpytma, is the ambassador of the Ulm family. He was invited last year, ladies and gentlemen. We didn't spend a penny on it. By the authorities of Calcutta. In Calcutta he was at the forefront of the newspapers, journals, him and the Ulm family. It's happening. Just, uh, ladies and gentlemen... When we just translated the so-called history into English. Poznań Fridays, 5 Salesians murdered by the Germans during the German occupation, the Salesians dissolved it all over the world, among others. In Singapore, I think the square or square was named after them. Just, ladies and gentlemen, it's all on such a small scale. Ladies and gentlemen, if 100 years ago the Polish state did not have... I mean, there was no Polish state, there was a nation. And, ladies and gentlemen, on the bestselling lists the first place, whether in the United States or in Russia, in France, was occupied by Sienkiewicz, the prose of Sienkiewicz. Well, this is a Pole, Nobel Prize laureate. But he was our ambassador, our ambassador of culture and our nation, who did not have a state at the time. We need some movies, that kind of promotion actually... And this, ladies and gentlemen, is expensive. I think that nearly 40 million people in this place of Europe should be able to afford such things. But it's not... Such actions are expected in such situations from the Institute of National Remembrance. We're doing something, we're active, but for example. the issue of Polish-Jewish relations... Let me get this straight, ladies and gentlemen. We have 170 scientists, historians in the office of historical research, but when I became president, 13 of them dealt with Polish-Jewish relations, not even so many... Some of them were taken care of by the Holocaust. Now we have increased employment to build an environment for historians to create such publications, because we need, ladies and gentlemen, scientific research. This painting won't change with one book, one movie. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance has a great deal of experience here. I'm proud to say this because this is the role of the Institute of National Remembrance. But think about how they stayed. Maybe it's a bad word. Promoted Soldiers Cursed. They're worn, their faces, their shirts, they're in pop culture. Ladies and gentlemen, in the early 1990s, there were a handful of historians. For a few people in Cracow, Warsaw Who's been on the subject. It was, you know, niche research. They reached the documents, books were made. Later came the Institute of National Remembrance, these studies were wider. Later, especially for the president of Janusz Kurtyka's sacred memory, we had to deal with, one might say, some fashion. But it was possible, because there have already been dozens of publications, and here is the question that we have these relationships or at all the subject of World War II... It was for a time, of course propaganda... The German occupation, the crimes were publicized in the times of the Polish People's Republic, but after 1989, the scientific community turned its back on this topic. And this is where we need to study. And it's very laborious research, and I'm going to say this: it's not spectacular, because it's the research of the commune, the county, but it's the only way to go, just like it was with the Cursed Soldiers. The work of Dr. Tomasz Łabuszewski in Mazowsze, county after county. These are years of his work. Dr. Krajewski... Well, that's the only way. When there's this foundation And we don't have that foundation. After years, it will be possible to popularize it. Only here are really years of omissions, but we have a lot of employees, people dedicated to this job. That's all it takes, unfortunately. But we're doing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Jerzy Czerwinski.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! For starters, 3 questions are sufficiently detailed, i.e. Well, that's what I'd call it. First. How do you assess the implementation of the law decommunizing public space in 2 aspects: street names, squares, etc... What had been passed before. Is there anything else going on today, or are there still places where you can get your opinion? Because that's what you're able to judge. And the second aspect is related to symbolic commemorations, or monuments. It was supposed to be done by the end of March. Probably there now the voivodships are officed and are trying to enforce this law. And one specific question. I am the senator representing the part of Opole. In Opole, a flagship monument commemorating the Soviet or Soviet army was a monument in Mikolina. Well, a monument with very exposed symbols like a red star, etc. And I found out from the press; I don't know if that's true. That the IPN had said about how, so to speak, to heal this monument, and not that it should simply be removed. Is this a good policy, such a test, I don't know, leaving form in the field and changing just this most sensitive symbolism? This is a matter of law decommunizing public space. Second question, about relations with Ukraine. Mr President, we have had such a disturbing picture of what is happening in Ukraine, namely trying to stop exhumation there, etc. Has something improved in this regard, or did it just freeze like that, remained in a state that was unfavorable to us? What do you think can be done in this regard? And the third question. This is what you started talking about just now, in answer to the previous question, namely the relations between Poles Jewish. Well, that's kind of a taboo theme. Either the subject was feared, or we have only descriptions in this area, I'll call it, publicist. I know there's a central research project in this area. The question is whether this central research project will respond e.g. questions concerning the participation of Jews in the security apparatus, especially after the war In the Ministry of Public Security, in the Security Office, etc.? Those three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u301	First thing, decommunization. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's essential. I do. And that is the position of the Institute of National Remembrance that if this year we celebrate the anniversary of the century of regaining independence... The next years will also be historical, 2019 year 2020, the century of one of our greatest battles in Warsaw... Well, ladies and gentlemen, independent Poland has no contact with the Polish People's Republic. This story has to be closed, it was the history of a non-sovereign state. The authorities of this country have choked, ladies and gentlemen, everything connected with the independence of Poland, people were sentenced to prisons, murdered, removed No, there's no place in public to glorify the communist system. I, ladies and gentlemen, was very critical of the decision of the administrative court which questioned these changes in the streets in Warsaw. Ladies and gentlemen, Warsaw can be an example of how to change these street names. These organizations and figures that have been selected as new patrons of the streets have one thing in common They worked for independent Poland or died for independent Poland; these are people of culture, these are soldiers, these are Poles, these are representatives of other nations who played an important role for Poland's independence. I'm not gonna be here... This court decision is completely incomprehensible and we are critical of it. Mr. Senator, we've published this in writing. Around 1 thousand 500 requests about changing street names. Unfortunately, this situation was also due to the fact that for many years the local government was slow about these matters. It is the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, which began still for the president of the sacred memory of Janusz Kurtyka. The role of his proxy, Dr. Maciej Korkucia, is enormous here. This is his knowledge and his work. Mr. Senator, the same applies to monuments. It's in the process, we're making decisions right now. I think that awareness is very important in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. Large disputes in some cities There are defence attempts, etc. It raises the issue of Dabrowszczaks who patronize many streets, e.g. in Olsztyn. How does the Institute of National Remembrance approach this? Ladies and gentlemen, today is the end of a three-day international session in Gdansk devoted to Dąbrowszczak. Scientists from Poland, Spain, from abroad show what was the essence of this formation, how it played a role in the communism and enslavement of Poland. The educational issue, the popularisation of knowledge, is very important here. I, ladies and gentlemen, am opposed to some kind of monument building. This monument is an expression of homage to people and to values that are very important to the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, saving money on monuments, arting them with some elements of old communist commemorations... In such a situation, it is better not to build anything at all. I may be here, Senator, to tell you what our idea is for these remains of monuments. We absolutely don't want to make a museum out of all this. We believe that the legacy of the totalitarian Soviet state... some kind of socland is not a good idea. It really was a criminal system that poisoned people's lives and humiliated them. Making things out of this not so serious... We're taking this very critically. Ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen one place to solve this problem. Podborsko lies several dozen kilometers south of Kołobrzeg. There's an old Soviet base there. There are preserved shelters where the Red Army kept nuclear warheads. One of these shelters was preserved entirely, with transport and ventilation systems. There are even models of warheads that were to be transported from this place. Nuclear warheads were to be fired from the mobile launchers to destroy our civilization, the Western states and, as a result, us. We want to make a place where we can gather the remains of these monuments and show them what the Soviet system was and what role the Red Army played in all this. We will also show Poles who for four and a half decades fought with those monuments who went to prison for this, were beaten and repressed. That is the idea of the Institute of National Remembrance on this issue. The next question concerned relations with Ukraine. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the Institute of National Remembrance is in the position that Ukraine is our neighbour and we will not build a wall on its border. But we firmly believe that there will be no compromise with the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Volyn in 1943 and later in East Małopolska was genocide. In a cruel, unimaginable way, more than 100,000 of our compatriots were murdered. We owe these people memory, commemoration. Hundreds of thousands of members of their families, who survived, lived with pain, mutilated for decades. First, it was impossible to talk about it in the Polish People's Republic, and later, in the times of the Third Republic, in the name of some political reasons, this unimaginable harm was silenced. These people deserve to be remembered. That doesn't mean we're gonna write their story on the flags. We're supposed to remember all this. I understand that for the Ukrainian people who build much of their identity in the history of the leaders of the formation responsible for this genocide, this is a very difficult subject. We take it easy. It's gonna take time. It takes time to accept this as a fact in our relations with Ukraine. If they're not ready to accept this fact, then we have to wait. Right? Maybe five years, maybe ten years, maybe a whole generation. There is no knowledge of this in Ukraine. After all, Dear Senators, for many years there has been no knowledge about this subject in Poland. It was very sad that this knowledge lasted only in these environments of people from there, in border environments. After all, only recently, last year, the first film was made on this subject, describing the pain, drama of these people, and the film was accepted differently. But it's a good thing he did. For many years, ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance has been cooperating, primarily in the scientific sphere, with Ukraine. And mostly... Years ago, we started working with archives after the former KGB and later also with the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance. The result of this cooperation is thousands of pages of documents. This year we published 2 volumes, over 1,500 pages of documents from security archives concerning the development of CNS and UPA structures by security in Poland. The promotion of this book took place in Ukraine. Polish and Ukrainian Institute... Over the years, such a form of conversation, dialogue of historians was the Polish-Ukrainian forum of historians. This forum has now been suspended. This was due to the fact that... We suspended them for a time, until all the records of these discussions were published by Polish and Ukrainian historians. We suspended it after... We saw that unfortunately the Ukrainian side has such a free attitude towards the facts. E.g. on the Werecka Pass they placed a commemoration in which they informed that there were 600 Ukrainians murdered by troops of the Polish Army, while there was no such fact at all. This shows the climate in which these conversations took place. And most historians were involved. Well, there's no... At this point we must stop, publish what we have done so far, these books from the Polish-Ukrainian forum meetings, and wait. And we'll see. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only form of activity. We have very good relations with Ukrainian archives. A few months ago, we signed agreements with archives in Odessa, Chmielnicki and Vinnica. We will receive hundreds of thousands of documents concerning the terror of the 1930s, the Polish operation. And we'll have a joint exhibition in a few months. We're doing it. We always say that the spectrum of the Ukrainian scientific community is different. We're trying, we're choosing these subjects... and that's always been our opinion, the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance: we can't... Somehow we understand that the Ukrainian side is unable to admit this truth about what happened in Volyn and in Eastern Małopolska. Okay, we're not gonna see each other here. Because, as I say, in the way of no half-truths, silence will not go. But we choose other topics, and this is what we proposed to the Ukrainian side: 1920, the alliance of Petlura and Piłsudski, 1939. And let me say this: this is how our new search and identification office in Ukraine started working. We searched for graves, remains of our compatriots, legionnaires from Kostiuchnówka, soldiers from 1920, from 1939. There are hundreds, thousands of unburied soldiers. And, most importantly, among the fallen are also Ukrainians serving in the Polish army, from 49th Hucula regiment. Well, there's that cemetery in Mościska. And so were the victims of 1943 and later... Well, a great work in Ostrówki, looking for and commemorating, a great long-standing work by Dr. Leon Popk, who now heads the Department of the Bureau of Search and Identification of the Institute of National Remembrance. And at some point it was blocked. It was completely blocked by the Ukrainian side. We weren't even allowed to search for the victims of the 1939 Wehrmacht. This was argued in such a way that the Ukrainian side does not guarantee the safety of our employees. But this point, which, as I say, interrupted all this, was the removal of an illegal monument in Hruszowice, a monument which, as the Ukrainian party thought, commemorated the UPA members there. This monument glorified the Ukrainian Uprising Army and individual UPA fucks that had no connection to this place. The Institute of National Remembrance held such a position: let us exhume there, let us see who lies, and remember it accordingly. If there are UPA members there, the grave with the simple, modest inscription UPA member does not bother us. Right? There's a lot of graves like this. But there's no permission to glorify the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. And it took months for that impasse to go on. We could not continue our work in Ukraine and did an exhumation in Hruszowice a few weeks ago. It's Professor Brother-in-law. And what did it turn out to be? That there are no human remains under the concrete tones, no UPA members, but there are older graves before 1939. So, in fact, this commemoration was absolutely inadequate here. This caused the Ukrainian party to change its position at this point. We were actually thanked for solving this case. I had previously sent a letter to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture, where I proposed 10 places where we could start searching. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian side is that there have been many words, right, and we are now waiting for concrete actions, concrete steps. There are places on this list from 1916... We didn't understand why we couldn't look for our legionnaires under Kostiuchnówka. They're from 1920. Our soldiers have often fought against the Bolsheviks alongside the Ukrainian soldiers. Or 1939 or 1943. But I still haven't gotten an answer on that yet. And it shows that these fields, our cooperation or activities Of course, I'm talking about the Institute of National Remembrance itself. In some fields it is better if these contacts are normal and on others they are completely blocked. I've always called for a distinction. At the beginning of July there will be... That's what the National Remembrance Institute is organizing. I am very pleased that we have obtained the patronage of the Marshal of the Senate, Mr. Marshal Stanisław Karczewski, over an international session, which I invite you to On Marshal's Street, our stop History, session. There will be scholars and professors from Ukraine, from the United States. The topic of the session will be Polish-Ukrainian relations during World War II. There will also be the subject I was talking about here. Mr. Senator? [[Third question, about Polish-Jewish relations after the war.]] Oh, yes, you asked... Well, it's, it's... I've always emphasized that there are very sensitive and difficult relationships here, because it's hard to get some symmetry here. Right? What the senator asked, that is, the participation of representatives of the Jewish people in the communist security camera... We have already published publications on this subject 10 years ago that illustrate the percentage share of security officers of Jewish origin in security apparatus structures. So this was the topic that was present in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. I agree with the senator, actually speaking of... These are very difficult topics and many people are afraid to talk about it. Take 1920 or 1939. There were Jews who stood and fought alongside our soldiers with the Bolsheviks, with the Germans, then died together, but they were also, which is natural. - No, the attitudes are different. Some who welcomed the Bolsheviks welcomed the Red Army and later were in the safety camera. Well, that's a fact, ladies and gentlemen. You might not notice that, but that's a fact. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And you ask Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u303	Mr. President, the environments that... here I am. These environments, let's call them bordering... I'm from Opole, and this is the place where these people have necessarily been brought in. Our ancestors were brought from the East, from the Kresów, and were settled there. There's a lot of them out there, but they're naturally dying, leaving. These are the people who still remember the resettlement. And I would therefore like to say that this is the first government to do something for them, which is doing something important for them, which said something about their tragedy, which he said about genocide, which does specific things. But it is also a government that, with the vastness of things that he has already done, sometimes hangs out somewhere and for unexplained reasons stops in this origin to the truth. What am I talking about? A week ago a conference was to be held in Lublin, organized by Professor Włodzimierz Osątczego. The state as IPN has supported this initiative, you have been a co-organizer for a very long time, and you are retreating in the last week. These gestures are not very understandable. It's the same with other conferences. There is a group of historians, undisputed authorities, who have academic titles of professors. Professor Ewa Siemaszko, Mrs Lucyna Kulińska, Professor Partacz, Professor Zapalowski are functioning in this space, and at some point one or the other gentleman from the IPN comes and hangs it somewhere. Why is there no unanimity here? In fact, we're just talking about history, let's not involve politics. We are talking about history and unanimity in explaining this matter. And second question. I already asked them in writing, but the answer was so vague. We are dealing with specific masters, e.g. The one who guarded that obelisk at the cemetery in Hruszowice, which you spoke of. It was an obelisk in the cemetery. It wasn't some statue outside, it was a monument in a cemetery. They were gentlemen who were exes... The man who guarded it was a former UPA soldier. Why as part of the functioning of the Polish State We know it was a criminal organization. There's no de facto mention of chasing these ex-soldiers, officers, murderers? And they're recognized by name and surname. We know which networks they can connect to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u304	Thank you very much. Perhaps you can ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question, and then the president will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u305	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to ask you about the cooperation of the Institute of National Remembrance with the European Solidarity Centre in Gdańsk. In the report, it's not recorded, or at least I didn't find it. Even the abbreviation of this institution, ECS, does not exist here, but the ECS performs many functions that are similar to the activities of the Institute: educational, scientific, exhibition function etc. It seems natural that there are levels where this cooperation should be obvious, understandable and useful, but I did not find such information in the report. Can you tell if there is no such cooperation, or is it simply irrelevant and there is any way to improve the situation in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u306	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u307	Mr. Senator, the Lublin issue, that conference in Lublin. Our scientists participated in this conference. My knowledge, but I can give you an answer in writing about why there was no patronage of the Institute of National Remembrance, is that it was only for organizational reasons. From the knowledge I have, it is clear that the organizers have changed the program of this conference every once in a while. We weren't exactly familiar with the shape of this conference. So we can't... This is the practice of any conference. We are willing to give patronages, but it must be, so to speak, presented to us a specific programme: who is present, what are the titles of the papers, what is the undertaking. In this particular situation there were changes every few days and the director of the Institute of National Remembrance in Lublin decided not to give patronage. But that didn't mean we didn't participate in this venture. There was a lecture by Director Marcin Krzysztofik, a lecture by Dr. Leon Popk. And those names you're talking about... After all, Mrs Ewa Siemaszko, a person who is honoured by the Institute of National Remembrance by the title of the Custos of National Remembrance, appears very often in our sessions, in educational projects, meets young people, participates in educational workshops for young people. Last year, when at the Marshal's stop we showed the young people, we showed Warsaw the theatrical performance about Wołyń, very exciting, which we are now showing in various places in Poland and we will show them in September when the school year begins, when we also have planned educational workshops for teachers about Wołyń... Now we don't do it because the school year is over, but this subject is present. There's no record of a name. We're... As I say, the only criterion is the truth and the investigation into this truth. There's no record of anyone here. We're open to discussion, to disagreements. And that's it. The question of responsibility for certain crimes. If such people live, if there are witnesses, they will report such a fact and it is documented... Well, I will say something that merely belonging to a given formation is not an act that is punishable. But if this person has committed a crime, there are witnesses, then I see no obstacle to the Commission's criminal prosecution against the Polish Nationals, but we must have such knowledge. Besides, the law enforcement committee is a body independent of me, directly under the authority of the Attorney General. But looking at practice, I don't see any problems here. In answer to the next question, I will say that cooperation with the ECS exists. We're exchanging... E.g. It's prepped or even signed, and I can answer in writing to the senator too... Mr. Senator, it's continuing, maybe not as wide as the senator would have imagined, but we're exchanging materials. ECS has a very rich audiovisual collection, and we have documents. This was the case with the exchange. Our historians from the Gdańsk IPN division appear at sessions organized by ECS, taking the floor there. Well, he has performed, participated, published in this institution and published in publications published by this institution by Mr Polek, who was elected yesterday to chair the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Far from perfect, but I accept.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u308	Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Mr President. Now I'm next in line... It's about questions. Mr President, of course I will not interfere in your answer, but I would suggest a slightly shorter answer. I think it would be better that way. For you, I'm sure... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Yes, sir.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...because... Yes. Well, in your answer, of course, as I said, I will not interfere. Only sometimes can we answer a little less, so we ask more questions. I have the following... I have a lot of questions for the president. First thing. Mr. President, do you, the IPN, implement and indicate the direction of historical policy? It can't be that you say it's the IPN that doesn't care. You, in political decisions like the bill, don't want to participate or participate. It's also your responsibility. All right. And here's the question: did anyone from the President's office... not the President's, just the Prime Minister consult you on the fact that you had a wreath in Munich last year on the graves of the soldiers of the Holy Cross Brigade? It was a brigade of the National Military Union, but working with the Germans in the last phase of World War II. She withdrew with the Germans, under German protection, then she was trained in the Czech Republic, then several members of this brigade were parachuteed by the Luftwaffe planes in the back of the front. There's no doubt about that. There was another, larger unit of the Polish underground, belonging to the National Army this time. It was a unit under the command of a lieutenant from the Novgorod National Army, from the District of Novgorod. They withdrew with the Germans from this area, but then fought during the Warsaw Uprising in the Kampinos Forests. This fight was very harsh, fierce, and I believe that they have somehow misled this period of cooperation. I'm not going to go into the details of the situation in Novgorod region either. Fighting a Soviet guerrilla... Did anyone from the Prime Minister's firm or the Prime Minister himself consult with you that the Prime Minister of Poland in Munich, in a situation of tension after the adoption of this unfortunate law on IPN, is wreathing at the graves of the Świętokrzyskie Brigade? That's the first question. [[Four minutes already.]] Second question. The materials concerning Archbishop Sławoj Leszek Głodzia appeared, which put him in the best position. These materials were in a restricted collection. First of all, why were they in a restricted set? And secondly, why doesn't anyone from the IPN give an evaluation of these materials? After all, you have specialists who can evaluate these materials, and they are as if in extenso are published and nothing more. I have two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u309	Mr. Marshal, first line. I didn't say that I didn't care about the bill, I just said that we wouldn't speak... interfere in the legislative process of the sovereign parliament, and we weren't asked to express our opinion. Here's another thing. Mr. Marshal, the issue of the history of the Holy Cross Brigade, the soldiers of the National Armed Forces, is very complicated. Mr. Marshal, I think I'd like to present you with materials, publications on the Świętokrzyski Brigade. Yes, these soldiers, retreating from Poland's lands, fleeing the Red Army, engaged in talks with the local German commanders, but there can be no mention of calling these talks cooperation. These are years of communist propaganda, when this formation of young soldiers from Kielce was defamed, from Radom, Polish patriots who reached this unit. Mr. Marshal, if not for their exit from Polish lands by the Czech Republic then, the liberation of the concentration camp in which the Jewish women were also held... They received such a heart in gratitude from these imprisoned women of many nations. Later, they were declared allied by the U.S. Army as part of the Allied army. The American army allowed them to wear the symbols of American units on their sleeves. Mr. Marshal, do you think the U.S. Army would honor Hitler's co-workers in this way? And here's the next thing. Ladies and gentlemen, these are indeed... It's easy for us today to pass judgment or any other judgment. I will not mention what epithets this formation is bestowed on us. But I'm sure if it weren't for the soldiers of the Holy Cross Brigade... It is possible to agree with the political program of this group or not, it can be discussed, but if they had not left Poland then, today we would have been looking for them on the Link, we would have been looking for them in the backyards of security offices. And many people who later got into emigration worked together, created environments, emigrated, supported, mainly in the 1970s, the opposition to which you belonged. I think I'll... present publications, historical studies after you've submitted a wreath. The Institute of National Remembrance issued a statement in Polish, in English describing the history of the Świętokrzyski Brigade, which also served soldiers of Jewish nationality. These are facts that are completely unknown today, and it must be said very clearly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u310	Good. Mr. President, I know the history of the Holy Cross Brigade pretty well. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: I do not question...]] It was the National Military Union, not the NSZ. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: From the National Armed Forces it originated.]] She was born, but it was the National Military Union. I'm not going to argue with you about that. Maybe later I'll take the floor and say something else in my speech, but I'm not going to argue with you as a question. [[It's not an object...]] Senator Ryszard Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u311	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President! Well, very rich, as every year, is the inventory of your actions. There are actually a lot of them. I have three questions. Chapter 9.8 is a public-interest investigation. I'm from Łódź and I've looked at the investigations we're investigating. And it's a little surprising to me that the victims of communist crimes are hidden here under initials that they don't have their names. This is weird. I understand that today you can hide the names of the judges in pending cases, but here... The investigation into the signature S 9.2016 concerns Stanisław D. and Tadeusz P., who were convicted in 1948. The next investigation concerns another Stanislaw D., murdered. Such a simple bread eater can identify these two different people under one name. I think the names of the victims should be given. They deserve to be remembered. I travel around the Łódź Voivodeship and very often meet with people who still remember those cruel times. Sometimes you want to ask them a question, e.g. Stanisław D., but I don't really know who to ask. That's the first thing. Second thing. A lot of materials, a lot of photos are scanned. They are extremely helpful in educational work. Recently, I was asked to deliver a photo from the Lodz tram strike in 1957. I admit I only have two of these photos in my own collection. I reached for the IPN harvest. I thought that, like in the Łódź archive, the photos were available there. Unfortunately, there is still a barrier and many materials cannot be reached. I think we should... They don't have to be big, so, let's say, they don't violate copyright, because that's also a problem today. But it would be good to remember that such a photographic archive should be open. The third issue concerns publishing. There's a lot of them, which is very proud of the IPN. Last year I asked about the IPN Bureau. We used to get a copy of the newsletter, and we could talk about it. Last year, one of the gentlemen told me that it was downloadable electronically. Well, I've been trying to download it lately, but it's just a list of contents, it's not all there. And on this occasion of publishing... Not long ago we celebrated the anniversary of the creation of the voivodship library in Łódź, a lot of librarians arrived, and since I handed over my own books, which I bought in the Łódź IPN, for library collections, I was asked if I could ask you or the staff involved in education at some point or library Only 17 of them could not receive a copy, as it was once said, mandatory. Today some copies arrive via podlaska library, because there is a repository of mandatory copies, which you give to the National Library, and they do not keep everything at home. It's three little things.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u312	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u313	So the question of investigations, initials, names... I'll put it in writing, Senator, why it is so. Second thing, access to the archives. He is certainly not perfect yet, but last year we did a revolutionary thing, i.e. there is a search engine on the Internet Archive inventory IPN, 1 million 700 thousand archive files, which means the query can be done at home. This makes it extremely easy to find. A huge effort from the National Remembrance Institute Archives, but we did it. And the next thing you know, it's the elimination of a restricted collection. At the end of this reporting period, at 31 December ub. A year, with probably more than 390 current meters remained about 5 meters. We do everything to ensure that these documents, which are a legacy from the security camera, the communist security camera, are accessible and public. The issue of publishing the Institute of National Remembrance. Indeed, over the years, it can be said, from the very beginning, that the distribution of books and publications, which the institute spends hundreds each year, has been a problem for us, and even bigger has become a few years ago, when the structure, which is called the auxiliary farm, was abolished. In order to solve this problem, last year we established the Publishing House of the Institute of National Remembrance. I think the availability of books is getting better. They are all available in the National Remembrance Institute's online bookstore. At this point, you can buy... There is a general problem with mandatory copies, but we send them, we send them, I think we can transfer them to the library... Why is the contents in this newsletter... Maybe it was one of the newer numbers. The Bulletin of the Institute of National Remembrance sells very well, we have a very large subscription, 60 PLN per year, and we make sure that it is bought, sold, and maybe that's why these last numbers have only a list of content available on the Internet and only later it is fully available.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u314	Thank you, Mr. President. Now you're asking Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! That's the subject I'd like to ask you. Namely this year we have a century of regaining independence, but we also have another interesting anniversary, such, say, anniversary and mobile. What do I mean? I mean, 80 years... I think you can talk about the first holocaust here. I'm talking about the order of Nikolai Jezov on 11 August 1937. It was an order to eliminate Poles. Pursuant to that order, a trial was launched between 15 August 1937 and 15 November 1938. From here I'm talking about the 80th, but a mobile anniversary. One can say that the Katyn method was then shot 111 thousand 91 Poles. Nearly 30,000 went to prison and about 100,000 were sent to Siberia... Sorry, Kazakhstan. Those were exports. These activities included the areas of the Marchlew region. It was a Jewelry with Dowby, which was called Marchlew at the time. About that... I graduated from school. I've been trying to teach history a little bit, to be interested in it, but there wasn't much to be said about it. It's quiet now, too. And you could say it was the first holocaust. It's about the Poles. They were eliminated only because they were Poles. It was their one and only fault. Is the IPN conducting any research on the subject? Can there ever be publications? I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u316	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I've talked a lot about it, but you seem to have been absent. It was, so to speak, the main anniversary in 2017, this reporting year. There were publications and sessions. There's a website with the names of 25,000 victims. There was a meeting with young people in Dowbysz. 30 million copies of the post stamp were created in cooperation with the Polish Post Office. There was also a several hundred-page educational project about this event, which reached every high school in Poland. There were workshops for teachers, committee investigations, agreements with archives abroad, publication of documents from Georgian archives. We have sentences from that time and we cooperate with Ukrainian archives in Vinnica, Odessa and Chmielnicki. Finally, in November in Vinnica we will present a large exhibition of documents submitted by the Ukrainian archives. I talked about it extensively in the first part. [[Thank you very much and I am so sorry. I wasn't there. I'm very happy that this case is so wide-ranging and that, I would say, we're catching up on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u318	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Senator... [[I'm so sorry.]] There you go. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u319	Mr President, we also have the 80th anniversary of the adoption of the rights of the Polish Union in Germany. Unfortunately, we have such an eastern tilt in research and commemoration. Meanwhile, in the interwar period Poles under the birth mark resisted Germanization. Many of them paid a great price during the occupation, and after the war they were also persecuted. Some of them were recently accused of some grandparents from Wermacht. This is a very difficult, painful history card, a card that requires testing and showing the heroes of those days. The Senate did so and on the 80th anniversary of the Berlin Congress adopted a resolution commemorating the Five Truths of Poles in Germany. I admit it's the environment that expects us to commemorate those heroes and show them to Fr. Domanski for a whole bunch of great people. This concerns, Mr President, also small towns such as Zakrzewo, called small Warsaw before the war. There's the House of Poland. It's like the Goldens, and so on. This is my neighborhood, so I'm asking about it. That's one thing. Are you planning something? What's gonna happen out there? There's a big anniversary time, and the legacy is, you know, ancient. And it's more up-to-date. Today, during the discussion about amending the law, there were numbers that I think you will be able to give more precisely. How many records, how many statements about Polish concentration camps did you register after the amendment of the law, and how many were there before? How many proceedings were initiated under the amended law, and how many were there before? Because I remember those proceedings were. It wasn't like they weren't responding. They responded, with different results, of course, also without this law. And how did they react to this avalanche after the bill was passed? Well, here we're arguing about how much it was, but anyway, the IPN probably has more precise data and I'm asking for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u320	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u321	Mr. Senator, I don't think it's very good with our message outside. Maybe we focus too much on the work itself because on the 6th of March this year, on the anniversary of this Berlin congress of the Polish Union in Germany, we opened an exhibition about the Five Truths of Poles in Polish and German in Opole. This exhibition was accompanied by a short scientific session, which will also be published. Very solemn was the opening of this exhibition in Opole, it took place I think it's in the city library in Opole. Then this exhibition went to Germany, it was probably in Essen and in other German cities. It is also intended to reach Olsztyn, so that it can be shown in these cities where the Polish Union... [[Why not in Zakrzewie?]] No problem, Mr. Senator, we'll also show you this exhibition in Zakrzewo. As for the statistics, Mr. Senator, that's right now. You surprised me. I won't give you the exact details, but I'll answer in writing. Indeed, even before the introduction of this law, we have established an International Independent Information Section at the Institute, which monitors the press and Western reports as much as it can. Every time we send protests, we send letters, and usually later there are some explanations, apologies. And we did it even before that bill. Last sentence: e.g. In one of the letters in Serbia it appeared that Katyn was responsible for Germany, and we also corrected this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u322	Thank you. Senator Czerwiński is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have one question, but more general. From a certain point in time, the concept has been functioning in the public sphere. And again, after the years 2001-2005, the reparations that belong to us from Germany. There's a parliamentary team on this case. I think it is crucial to estimate our war losses in a way, on the one hand, of evidence, i.e. such that there is evidence, not other figures, those and not other names On the other hand, in a precise manner. Do you think the parliamentary team alone can do this? Is the IPN involved in this work? And shouldn't there be a special cell, some institute under the aegis of a government to deal with this issue? Because she's gonna be like this one day when I know life. And maybe you'll just have to give the exact information that's supported by evidence. And that must be not so much anymore... I mean, it must be credible, but above all, it must be to defend itself, even in a procedural manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u324	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u325	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this team has already been formed and the Institute of National Remembrance has given this team support, our humble logistical support. We're in session. This is a team of about 20 scientists from the Institute of National Remembrance. Professor Vladimir Suleja is the leader of this team. The professor is the director of the Office of Historical Research of the Institute of National Remembrance. In this team there are representatives of science from many, many fields. This report is being prepared. These are historians from the Institute of National Remembrance, from the Archives of New Acts, from other archival institutions, from the scientific community, economists, sociologists, lawyers. All I'm gonna say is that this team's work continues all the time. It must be long-term, too. Give us some time, because these archives are scattered. But how far we go, how far we go when it comes to estimating these German losses... Because the easiest way to figure out how many broken houses there were, how much infrastructure was destroyed, and so on. But there is also a question of how much the Polish state lost because the buildings in question were in the hands of the German administration. It shows exactly how it's done. Schools weren't schools, offices weren't Polish offices, they were working for the German Reich. It takes months, months of hard work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I still have a question for you because you haven't answered one of my questions. Did the materials concerning Archbishop Głodzia, which were published, where he is classified by military intelligence in the Polish People's Republic... It is surprising, the Second Division of the General Staff, i.e. the reference to the pre-war period, it is interesting. He was classified as an unconscious informant. An extensive article has been published on these materials. And I ask: why is this material about the Archbishop in the restricted collection? I don't see any rules in there that would allow this material to be placed in a restricted set. That's one question. Second question: why is there no voice from the IPN? I mean, these are IPN materials. Of course, this case, this publication is certainly very unpleasant. Shouldn't the IPN take the floor and say if it's... Is an unconscious informant some kind of conscious collaboration? How do I interpret this? And one more question. An IPN employee from the Warsaw branch in June, 22 June this year published a Nazi poster calling other nations to the crusade against the USSR and the creation of a German living space, that is to say that the Slavs, Russians, Poles, of course Jews, Belarusians and in these areas have to be destroyed, creating a Lebensraum, a German living space. The same employee publishes in the extremely right-wing Temprum Novum, which praises Léon Degrelle, Belga, who formed the Nazi Belgian legion. I'm not gonna mention his name, but I'm gonna ask you if you're trying to do something about it. Because it's bad for the IPN. So these three cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u327	Mr. Marshal, case one, that is, the matter of documents that were included in the restricted collection concerning Archbishop Glodzie. Mr. Marshal, that's not a question for me, because I'm the president, who... the bill shut down the restricted collection, and I practically declassified it entirely... [[I am asking, Mr President, not why you declassified it, but why this material was included in this proprietary collection.]] But, Mr. Marshal, this is a question for the staff who have so qualified this material. I will remind you that in a restricted collection, ladies and gentlemen, we found materials from years after the war, materials from the disclosure of the soldiers of the Home Army, post-war materials in the Ukrainian language. That's the question. Not the Institute of National Remembrance. Regardless of who was at the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, our position has always been one: the reserved collection should cease to exist. And the question of documents that... Press articles have appeared on the basis of documents that have been in the restricted collection so far. The Institute of National Remembrance prepares a scientific article evaluating these documents. We have always dealt with these issues so that scientists must lean on these documents. And this article, as I know it, is being prepared. As for the speech of an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance, I will answer in writing to the marshal. As far as I know, this is a case a few hours ago. I think it needs to be thoroughly verified. It is not the first such case that an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance deals with a subject, publishes sources or fragments, and then these published contents are indicated as his own. So I'll answer in writing to your marshal when I gather all the information about it. [[Thank you, Mr President, and I expect a written reply.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u328	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Jarosław Szarek has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by senators Rybicki, Bonisławski, Augustyn and Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. And I'd like to speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I want to talk about the I.P.N. Act, about changing this bill. This I.P.N. Act concerns your institution, under your direction. You backed that bill five months ago. A lot depends on your opinion, because you're being listened to, you're the head of an institute that interprets history, an examination of history. Plus, this law was about the IPN of the institution you're running. So you can't say you're not involved in this because it's political. Well, the I.P.N. Act is about your institution! It was a terrible bill, and we talked about it here, right here. It's a terrible bill! We also told you what the consequences would be. These were the consequences that reduced the status of Poland internationally. Unfortunately, they've lowered it. And this notion of death camp, which was to be blocked, has been repeated many millions of times in various media. This caused a very difficult situation for Poland, but also caused an increase in the atmosphere in Poland or an increase in the number of anti-Semitic voices, which further compromised us. So this bill, which has been amended today, is also your job or your failure to do so. You can't let that happen. One must be aware of the consequences of one law or another. And this bill challenged our relationship with Israel, challenged our relationship with the United States. It is not true that it is the Polish authorities who have been fighting this concept for two years. Mr President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassies have, for many years now, implemented several thousand interventions on a global scale and they have been effective. Mr President, good relations are built for a very long time, but destroy them, you can strain them very quickly. And that's what happened. Good relations with Israel were built after 1990 for many, many years, by all governments, by all presidents President Wałęsa, President Kaczyński, but also by President Kwaśniewski and President Komorowski. It was a tedious job, a tedious conversation. I too, when I made foreign visits to Canada, Australia, met with representatives of the Jewish community to talk to them so that I could have contact with them to explain to them. That is also why, to a large extent, we have become allies of Israel, doing so to make such relations on a global scale. Because not only with Israel, but also with the Jewish environments. At the moment, there was a withdrawal from punishment, that is, from the Penal Code. It's good that it happened, but it's bad that it's so late. It is wrong that it is so late and that we have confirmed in this way that Poland is an anti-Semitic country. It's not true, although they're anti-Semitic, but we're going to be explaining and undoing what this bill has done. It is a matter of relations with Israel, with Jewish communities. What about relations with Ukraine? Mr President, it was not the IPN that began cooperation with Ukrainian archivists. From the Archive of the SBU in 1999, I began cooperation, being the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and these joint, very important works, the source materials that have appeared for a long time have been published since 2000. It is not true that we have not remembered and we do not remember what happened in Ukraine, that the Third Republic... etc., etc., I will not quote you, other politicians. On the 70th anniversary of the Volyn crime here, there was a resolution in this House. But it is not possible for another nation to impose its historical narrative with a stick and stand in the position of an older brother. We did not create, and the IPN did not do it either, another Polish-Ukrainian narrative. We didn't create a narrative about Petlura's cooperation with Piłsudski, it didn't break through. It was a huge mistake. It's not a rule, and it shouldn't be a rule, breaking up contacts and insulting yourself. I heard from you that because the Ukrainians were something, we were something too, we froze the contacts. You and your institution are not meant to freeze your contacts. You're here to communicate, talk and explain, even if we don't agree with the interpretation of the others. This is not the way to proceed, and the IPN and you have supported every resolution on aggravating the situation. Volyn crime? Well, there was a resolution. It's a Volyn genocide, and the next resolution was about crimes of genocide. That wasn't enough, that's genocide now, is it? So what? So what? We have destroyed, destroyed Polish-Ukrainian relations. From a political point of view, not a historian's relationship with Ukraine is, in addition to relations with Germany, the basis of our policy and our security. And that's clear. And the interpretation of this... [[Time, Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...put on extreme forces, precisely those environments you call border forces. These are largely hombre environments. We also had a difficult relationship with others, with Lithuanians. So what? Ex-Ponary? We need to investigate, we need to talk, we need to investigate... [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] ...and not try to impose your own interpretation. You have to come to an agreement. I repeat, you cannot use the baton to teach others your own interpretation. In Hungarian-Slovak relations some Slovak heroes... no, otherwise, some Hungarian heroes in Slovakia are referred to as criminals. And yet these two nations, these two countries, they work together.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u330	Mr. Marshal, time's up. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm going to ask Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! We're even though some of us are a little lost. In point: Information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 I'd like to get back to the subject. We had the opportunity to read the information in writing and listen to your words. It seems to me that first of all we need to be thanked for what has been presented to us, and in particular for what has been done, and this is an impressive, broad educational activity, and above all for the work of restoring memory. I think the overwhelming majority of us, the senators, are the people who have experienced this terrible operation you mentioned, the amputation of memory. Many of us, even having some residual family messages about what was going on and what was mostly about our parents, grandparents, but also earlier times involving the Commonwealth, with patriotism, with the struggle for independence... At that time, when it entered the areas reserved for censorship and in some other way prohibited, many experienced that this information was individual, only residual. And often even in families, because of the fear that caused all the risks associated with talking about it, we simply did not talk about it. Because of this, many of us do not know anything until today, or know very little even about those things that concern us almost directly. You also spoke of local heroes who are restored by a good name, a good memory. It's something that deserves the utmost respect and gratitude. I think that what you have presented, this activity, also involving the use of modern technologies, on going to young people through new attractive ways of reaching, is extremely important. Well, if we don't do it today, especially with the hands of the institute, we'll be a nation that just won't have a story. I do not know if you know, but in the years of the cultural revolution in China there was a reform of the letter. These Chinese pictograms have been simplified in such a way that subsequent generations have virtually no access to what was created before, they cannot read it. The whole cultural, historical and literary achievements are available to them only in the form of some kind of adaptation for children and young people, and of course this applies only to what was decided to adapt. We found ourselves in a very similar situation. But thanks to your activity at the last minute, at the last moment it is possible to undo it. On the one hand, it is a question of restoring memory to us, Poles, here, in Poland And that's probably the most important thing. On the other hand, it is the restoration of Poland's good name, the restoration of Poland's good name, and the restoration of the truth about which you also spoke. Because the Institute of National Remembrance is not an institution that should run politics. She should bring the truth back. I was very moved by what you said, among others. about relations with the Ukrainian side, about the fact that you are looking for areas where this cooperation is possible, and where it is not possible, we are simply waiting for the possibility of cooperation based on the truth. On the question of truth today, the Prime Minister argued with some of us, too, and said that no relationship could be based on some sort of half-truth, supposedly-truth, because the truth is one. There aren't many laws, there's one truth. And your activities give you a chance to restore this one. The truth. Thank you so much for that. In the past, the institute was mostly associated with illustration, and today it is associated with restoring the truth to the inside, to us, to Poles, and to the outside, so that others also know what our situation is. In fact, that's why I asked for the floor to say thank you. I think that this series of very many questions, as well as a brief discussion, needs to be completed. When we read this report, this information, we simply need to appreciate what you are doing. By the way, I'd like to... I can't help but apologize for my previous speech. I'm sorry about the border environment for the invectives that came to them. It was something completely unacceptable, you can't call it homage or extremes. These are people who have experienced terrible things and who deserve to be respected and restored to remember their loved ones. Memory of them was tried completely to deprive us, and these families were in a completely dramatic situation for decades. It was completely unacceptable. I was outraged by the words that fell on this subject. Finally, the last point, just a little bit beyond what was mentioned in your report. I think today is a good day. A good day, which repaired not so much something that was wrong, but something that, for several months, as Prime Minister Morawiecki said, was very intense. I'm talking about an IPN bill that was revised early this year. Today we've moved on to stage two. The best proof that it all consists of a good whole and a certain logic is what happened this afternoon, tonight, the joint declaration of the Prime Ministers of Poland and Israel. It's not true that the bill destroyed anything. She has prepared the ground for cooperation based on truth. It's really important, it's worth noticing, and I'm happy about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u332	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Zbigniew Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I, too, would like to express my thanks to the President for this very extensive, comprehensive study, which illustrates how much work, how much effort the IPN has put into carrying out the function to which he was appointed. Also, as a practice that often confronts these issues, sometimes even on the other side of the judiciary, in various types of cases where IPN prosecutors are present, I would like to express my appreciation for the very good preparation and integrity of IPN prosecutors, for this contribution of work, very solid work, which is best demonstrated by the fact that 87% of the courts share the position of prosecutors in illustrative proceedings, which, in my view, is quite a success, given that the prosecution's prosecution's material is a completely different type of material, different from the one at the prosecutor's disposal in the indictment. The prosecutor in mirror proceedings does not act as prosecutor, only as public-interest spokesperson, and does not have such simple It's pretty simple. As in any other criminal proceedings, the work of this investigative unit deserves a very positive assessment. I would also like to stress that the huge credit of the IPN is the mass of publications, publications that present a high level of content, as well as a large number of conferences. I would also like to stress this. Which IPN organizes, on topics that were often deliberately forgotten, and at the moment they come out and allow us to determine often the truths hidden or falsified. Hence my full appreciation for the activities of the IPN under the direction of President Shark. I would like to congratulate the President and wish him further fruitful work in directing the IPN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u334	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I, too, would like to join in with the thanks that came here from this podium. I believe that the institute led by you is doing a very good job for independent Poland. This is the only institution that can do this job. We were the authors of the decounization law, decounization of public space, and only the IPN could be the institution that could categorically solve the question of whether a given name is compatible with that law or not. Imagine who we'd point if we didn't have an IPN. Courts, administration? There's gotta be an institution. And it is good that you have played this role and that you will, I hope, continue to play this role. Next issue: relations with Ukraine. I believe that this strategy or this tactic is more appropriate, namely to look for common research areas that do not cause controversy so far. And gradually raising, so to speak, the Ukrainian side and bringing it closer to the truth... We cannot allow, in my opinion, the building of an independent Ukrainian state to be, firstly, based on a lie, and secondly, to have as heroes these organizations, those people who have genocide on their hands. IPN has a very important role to play here, precisely in these inter-neighborhood relations. Because we don't require an IPN to be politically correct. You often have to touch on those topics that are on the verge of political correctness, which are politically sensitive, but that's when we demand only one of you. ! reliability, reliability and once again integrity. I don't want to read about relationships. Polish-Jewish post-war publications. I want to have it in the form of an IPN study, because then I believe that it is true that you do not black out, do not cover up some facts, and on the other hand you do not expose those that are more politically correct. It is only on the truth that true friendships, possibly neighborly interests, can be built. And the fact that the IPN will be needed for a long time is evidence of the problem of reparation. It is among you that there are scientists who will certainly be able to develop this issue in a reliable, objective and evidence-proof manner. Poland should have done this a long time ago. This is another omission of decades after the war, and this omission will be for us all the time. Sorry about the colloquial expression. Bounce back with hiccups. To be sovereign, we need to show what we lost during World War II, where we could be if it weren't for World War II, and what else. They owe us, not necessarily materially, but certainly morally. The IPN should take a clear stand on these issues, it should lead to an estimate of our losses during World War II, be in the forpost of these organizations, those who will deal with it. Like I said, I.P.N.'s gonna take a long time. Any attempt to express even just a position, because there were such announcements that the IPN will be liquidated, they are coming, I hope, just out of ignorance, what role this individual, this institute plays in the development of our latest history, but also in our everyday life, in public life. I hope those who have expressed such a thing will withdraw from it. And at the hands of the President, I would like to express my thanks for the effort and work put into the work of the Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers was exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President like to take the floor again and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? Yes? Mr. President, I would like to invite you very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you so much for the words I heard here. These are the words of thanks to 2 000 300 employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, who carry out every day the mission of work at the Institute of National Remembrance, in an institution that has in its name these 2 words of memory and nation. However, I would like to refer to the words of Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry that you said those words about the stick, about the imposition. Mr. Marshal, you are a legend of the great freedom movement of Poles, Solidarity. For the Institute of National Remembrance, the memory of this great movement of ours, about the Solidarity... Minister Radziwiłł The Independent Student Association, Freedom Movement and Peace, Mr. Marshal March '68, December '70s and this big strike is a picture of you coming out in a group of people with John Karandzie with loaves of bread... Mr. Marshal, why weren't you at the 40th anniversary of the establishment of Free Trade Unions? We invited everyone. There were activists of Free Trade Unions from the United States, from Germany, from Poland, often people already ill. They could have met for the first time. This is also the role of the Institute of National Remembrance. Last year we remembered the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee. Everyone came to Cracow from such, on the other hand, the political barricade. It was the anniversary of ROPCiO and there were also all, there was still living Emil Morgiewicz, was Andrzej Czuma, was Bronisław Komorowski. We organize meetings for people, there are no workplaces, but the Institute of National Remembrance wants to be a place where they can meet because we owe these people freedom. Mr. Marshal, it's Solidarity that's called for memory. After all, it was you who participated in 1978, in 1979 in those first manifestations on 11 November in Gdańsk, who walked from the Basilica of Mariacka to this famous monument of John III Sobieski. This monument came to Gdansk from Lviv. Mr. Marshal, I must protest. Those words you said about boundary environments, the use of... I will repeat the words of Minister Radziwiłł, I will join this vote, but the president of the Institute of National Remembrance cannot remain silent. Talking about homies, talking about radical environments... Minister, Kresa of the Republic is not our imperialism, but this is our cultural heritage. We will not understand what Polishness is without the memory of the Kresów, and the Institute of National Remembrance also does a lot here. I didn't say that. By documenting this legacy, bringing young people there to touch this story. Because when there's a family reunion in one of the families And this is a story heard during one of the meetings in the Historic Book of the Year, where these publications were nominated... One of the authors of such a publication spoke of the Kresów. And one of the young men spoke... because they turned to him, saying, "You are from the Kresów." And that's what this young man says, but no one in our family comes from this town. Well, this is where you can see this cultural element of illiteracy, which is also present and which will not be approved at the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr. Marshal, it was the solidarity that restored our memory, restored our identity. In Lviv, on the ruined Lviv Defenders' Cemetery, on those columns where only this inscription in Latin was left, they died so that we could live free. In Latin, because the Soviets did not know Latin, this cultural heritage was a chalk written by the inscriptions: "Solidarity." So talk now And that's because of the person who was the legend of this movement. I'm talking about these environments, about this legacy in this way... Mr. Marshal, this is very sad. You can't talk anyway because these people have suffered too much. These people were thrown out of their homes, they were thrown out, they had to go into a foreign world, they lost everything. It is our duty to remember, not in the name of imperialism, but in the name of our culture, to understand what Polishness is. That's why the Institute of National Remembrance has always appreciated them, because these people in the Kresów are our national memory curators. This year we awarded the Polish People's Theatre in Lviv, the Association of Pieniecka Hut, not to build hatred, but to remember, because without it we will not understand each other. And, Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry because you've hurt hundreds of thousands of people with line roots with those words. The most beautiful thing, Mr. Marshal, always grows in dispute, in difference. And in this melting pot of many cultures, many religions were born the most beautiful in culture. How many great Poles... Now we're going to be like what happened 100 years ago, but there wouldn't be that independence without these people from there without their actions. The Union of Active Fighting in Lviv, Boy Scouts in Lviv, Lviv Orlęta... We have to remember that. So, Mr. Marshal, you can't... Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u338	Thank you very much. [[Correction!]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u339	Mr. Marshal, I want... Mr. President, I'll tell you why I didn't answer your invitation and I didn't come to the health and safety room. Because a meeting was held earlier in this health and safety room, the ONR meeting and this room was thus corrupted. And you didn't protest! And you know what ONR was before the war and what role he played. So I'm explaining to you: this case doesn't mean I'm avoiding discussion. I discussed in ECS with Krzysztof Wyszkowski, so I am not afraid of such meetings. But thank you for reminding me of my role in Solidarity. I'm not gonna say another word... But you must be aware that if something like this happens, that in the historic health and safety room they meet extremes... And you can't deny that this is an extreme organization. And since the IPN, which is the guardian of the historical narrative in Poland, does not speak, I apologize, but I have to react. And that's how I reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u340	I would like to thank the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Shark, for presenting the information. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Thank you.]] I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 841, and the report of the Committee in print No 841 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u341	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present the report of the meeting on 19 and 26 June on the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. It amends the rules on the manufacture, marketing and supervision of medicinal products, as well as certain rules relating to the prevention of conflicts of interest. In addition, the Act: extends the prohibition on a single trader to conduct several economic activities in which he may purchase medicinal products; removes the obligation to provide information on the availability of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices through an integrated system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products. I'm gonna focus on a few parts of this bill, I think, quite relevant. The Act provides for changes in the clinical trials of the medicinal product. Currently, the procedures for granting the test permit are quite complicated and, in my opinion, prolong the process of issuing the test permit. Currently, an application for authorisation to conduct a study may be submitted once contracts have been concluded with the researcher and the research centre to carry out the study. The law requires the submission of a brief description of the financing of a clinical trial, the submission of information on financial transactions and the compensation paid to participants and researchers or research centres in which the clinical trial is conducted for participation in a clinical trial and the submission of a description of any other contracts between the sponsor and the research centre in which the clinical trial is conducted. In addition, the Act extends the catalogue of activities which cannot be combined with the operation of a pharmaceutical wholesaler. The prohibition to combine the operation of a pharmaceutical wholesaler concerns: to conduct or apply for a pharmacy or a pharmacy; to deal with the marketing of medicinal products; to apply for entry in the national register of intermediaries in the marketing of medicinal products; to pursue a medicinal activity or to apply for entry in the register of medicinal agents. An important regulation is the suspension of the obligation to transmit certain data through an integrated system for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products by 30 September 2018. Such abolition shall be introduced by 30 September 2018. For entities that did not fulfil their reporting obligations. The need to postpone this deadline shall be justified by the fact that it is not possible to implement that monitoring system before 30 September 2018. During the committee's work, the topic of illegal drug transportation abroad was discussed. Well, that was the clou of the whole bill. We know that many drugs are illegally exported from Poland, which are then missing from pharmacies. We know that the prices of these drugs are much lower in our country than in Western Europe. In order to eliminate this possibility, there is a ban on the operation of wholesalers and medicinal products at the same time, as this allowed, to a greater or lesser extent, the so-called "surgery." storage shifts, to such a form of accounting that allowed them to flow away, to sell these drugs abroad. During the committee meeting it was also raised, mainly by the legislator, the thread of the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution, and this concerns the limitation of a certain form of economic activity, albeit Article. 22 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland allows the restriction of economic freedom only by law and only because of the important public interest. This bill seems to be doing it right. The majority of committees propose that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. There was also a minority request that you will present to Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u342	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very short. This proposal concerns only one issue. I signed up for a debate in which I would like to talk about the positives of this law. However, among the various restrictions on conflicts of interest, and precisely restrictions on the possibility of other than inspection activities by inspectors of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, among the various forms of taking such work, which is precisely preventing simultaneous inspection of... This catalog also includes the function of the pharmacy local authority. It seems to me that this is completely unwarranted. I'm skipping the point of justice, because it only applies to pharmacists, and other professions are not, but above all it seems that being e.g. the treasurer of the District Pharmacy Chamber and at the same time the pharmaceutical inspector does not argue with each other. Moreover, the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist by being an inspector is the same profession as e.g. running a pharmacy or working somewhere else, and it seems that these two activities can easily be combined. That's why I propose that in the article. 1 in point 34, which relates to Article. 114a, in the mouth. 1 delete point 8, which concerns precisely this conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u344	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, senator. Now the senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's a question. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u345	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm taking the last chance to open my mouth at all, for example, to ask a question. In advance, I apologize that this question will probably go beyond the context of the bill under review... [[Well, I'm gonna take it down.]] And I won't be offended, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome, Senator.]] It concerns the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist. I'm interested in this issue. If the rapporteur doesn't answer, I ask the government for an answer. If you are working on such a possibility that the pharmacists, of course those with confirmed qualifications, can write prescriptions. This could be done as a model in other countries, and at the same time would aim to relieve the burden, say, of health services understood as clinics, hospitals, etc. Given the fact that the pharmaceutical profession today has been acquired due to its status... [[Mr. Senator, there was a question. It's not a discussion.]] Well, the question is, aren't they working on a solution like this, the government and others?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u346	Yeah, but it's really not a question that should be asked right now. The Minister will probably answer them later. I'm gonna lift that question, and the Minister is gonna answer it, okay? That's what we're gonna do. Are there any other questions, related to this item, to the Senators of the rapporteurs? No. Minister... The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the King's Minister's meeting. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome. Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of the Senators! With regard to this question, which has been repealed, I would say that it is difficult to imagine that we are working on writing prescriptions... since in this bill we are trying to separate wholesalers from direct sales, just so that we do not create what Senator Kraska said, this inverted distribution chain... We're gonna fight it. There's such a presumption here that there's just going to be overuse... Although we're working on something that's called pharmaceutical care, and I think this is the element that's going to be... This year, as far as I know, this is the result of the work in the departments concerned, we want to strengthen the role of pharmacists already in pharmacy and in direct guidance. Only a few more elements, which in this Act are, with a request for it to be proceded and accepted. Here we refer to the elements that arise from the EU directive, to which we must, so to speak, adapt our law. Production of advanced therapy medicinal product, hospital exception, something that has not been in our legislation so far; control of entities that conduct such products... This applies to elements which are already used in Poland, namely products derived from stem cells, genes, other tissues. In the case of burns, we know situations where indeed such needs are very strongly outlined. Mr Senator also spoke here about preventing conflicts of interest within the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, and we also refer to these provisions of the EU Directive. You know, certain people should be working... I've already told you about this reverse distribution chain. As for the clinical trials, because these questions went through both in the Seym and during the debate in the Senate... This is a situation where, at present, in order to conduct clinical trials, you need to prepare a number of contracts with subcontractors. At the moment, we would like to introduce such a provision that only after obtaining this agreement with subcontractors would it be necessary. An additional element concerning the team itself working in the pharmaceutical inspector... We want to increase the number of these people. So far, this recipe is talking about five years of experience working at a warehouse. Given the fact that we have in Poland about 400 such entities, which still have networks in different places, the number of these employees is still far too small to power a pharmaceutical inspection which... We just want this legislation to be liberalised. This also applies to changes in criminal law in this law, where... It was moved here, too. We are talking about doing business, but we have also added that it is not only about doing business, as it is now, but also doing business, which is this element, so to speak, chronologically further. Here it was discussed Integrated Marketing Authorisation System. We're still working to get him to function, even though he should have been functioning for some time. We want to specify here precisely the date when this requirement will be relevant. I will refer to the minority's request. It was reported during work in the Sejm. We agree with what has been reported. Therefore, we will not accept this minority vote notified by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u348	Thank you very much, Minister. Just a moment, because senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute questions related to the scope of this law. Does anyone want to ask that question? Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u349	I think we're on to something this time. The question is about the size of a market that escapes control and is generally called a non-legal or even illegal market. So import, export... And illegal drug export to external markets. And the second question is, did the Ministry of Health report through the coordination system, which it is also obliged to, CBA, to conduct these cases, investigations, or to, let's face it, prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u350	Now, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Okay, thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u351	Thank you. As for the full size, we will answer in writing because I do not have such data here. [[In writing? Okay, I'm the one who has to write this down.]] I can only refer to the general market, which... so to speak, there is about PLN 1.5 billion in turnover. This is so much that here actually different services, not just CBA, are involved. And we report these facts. Here, by the way... There was also a debate in this room about the And then one of the subjects of the discussion was that the person who's going to run the pharmacy, that's the apothecary who only has the ability to do a few... In the case of checks carried out by a pharmaceutical inspection demonstrating this illegal activity, he shall lose his entitlement to carry out his activities. And here we had... Well, it happened. And indeed, for some time it must be possible for the effect to be visible, but we have prevented such situations when various kinds of network institutions registered different pharmacys in different places, especially in small towns, and because of this operation those pharmacys fell. So that such a situation is the subject of notification to different services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u352	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the government representative, the Minister, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator, Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill we're about to adopt has been under investigation for a long time. It is a continuation of various activities... It is so à about what you asked Senator Rulewski, what actions have been taken so far so that these medicines with special care, disappearing from pharmacies, do not leave Poland. The rules have been in place for several years. Well, it must also be said that those who are involved in this activity are simply in some way racing with legislation and action. There is a list of prohibited drugs resulting from the law, published, is monitoring this phenomenon, well, and there are many different actions that have been taken but are insufficient. And I think it's very good that at the moment we're taking another step, which is undoubtedly just an analysis of the phenomenon of the fact that entities that have a distribution body or a wholesaler or both in their structure at the same time. They found an illegal way to export these drugs, pretending that they are being used by this clinic while actually being sent abroad. So what we're talking about here is a step in the right direction. Probably those who are exporting drugs from Poland will be thinking about some new way to get around it, but for now it seems that this initiative is going in a very good direction and at least for some time will stop, and in any case limit, the possibility of illegal export of drugs which are subject to the ban on this export. A very important element of this law, separate from the issue of exports of prohibited medicines, is a whole range of rules governing the authorisation of the manufacture of this particular, innovative type of medicinal products, so-called. advanced therapy medicinal products, so called hospital exceptions; these are treatments such as gene, cell, tissue therapies. I think these rules are heading in the right direction. It is important to be aware that producers of this type of products they are most often not large international companies, but small entities, so these regulations must look different. But I think on the margins of this speaker should also call the Ministry of Health I've already talked about this at the Health Committee's meeting. To reflect on the overall regulation of the types of therapies that are raised by ethical discussions around the world. It seems that Poland in this sense is behind, behind these discussions, because in Poland actually this discussion does not take place. And I think that we should ultimately look forward to proposing regulations restricting such complete and complete freedom in this regard. Because these therapies are also stem cells, including embryonic cells, which raise doubts about gene therapies, the effects of which can be transmitted to subsequent generations, etc., etc. This certainly requires precise regulation and certain restrictions in this area, because such a completely free American woman in this area can just be dangerous. Important rules are those that concern conflicts of interest. They, as the Minister said, are implementing the European Union directive, so it is very important that this happens. I will no longer repeat the argument that I think the rules are going a little too far and hence the amendment I have proposed. Finally, the last question, also very important for Polish and Polish patients, waiting for modern, innovative products, which are available to them in terms of treatment, especially in those areas where they are looking for rape, can be said to be modern therapies in a situation where there are no other available therapies, or important in Poland as a place where clinical trials are conducted. Indeed, we are dealing with the liberalisation of certain provisions in this law, and we can say bureaucratic restrictions that unnecessarily hinder research. However, by accepting and supporting these solutions, I would point out that this is also the opening of a certain chapter, which must continue. Because, as you know, European clinical trial rules, the regulation on clinical trials, and the regulation on clinical trials, which applies directly, will also apply directly in Poland and this requires a comprehensive regulation of clinical trials. I know that work has been going on at the Ministry of Health for a long time. But going in this direction, one very fundamental principle must also be remembered. On the one hand, there is a great deal of pressure, mainly from the pharmaceutical industry, as well as patients, in a sense especially those groups of patients who are in extremely bad, one can say, hopeless situation, to agree to more than is safe. And this is a limit that needs to be taken into account in the work on the new rules, so that we do not become the third world where clinical trials are conducted more easily, but they can be dangerous for those who participate in them. I'm not talking about that bill. This law is well designed in this area. But if further rules are introduced for clinical trials, they must be governed by the safety principle of those involved in the study. That's the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-27-senat-62-1.u354	Thank you very much, Senator, Minister. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there any messages? There are no messages. I would remind you that the session will resume tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. We will begin by considering item two of the agenda, i.e. Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow, June 28th, until 10:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 46.]]
