ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u1	I open the 50th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I will appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. Mr. Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. I inform you that the Seym on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...fifty-nineth meeting on 6 March 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, to the Act on the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, to the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Entrepreneurs and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland, to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Business Activity and to the Law on the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Protection of Animals and to the Law on the Law on the Criminal Code. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the fourth and fifth minutes of the meeting, I declare that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifty-sixth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items one, two, four, five and eight of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act establishing the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. and consider this item as the first item on the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. and consider it as point 14 after the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of point four, i.e. the law on court bailiffs, and the fifth point, the bill on bailiff costs, and considering them as items of the second and third agenda, after the added point concerning the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. I also propose that we consider the present second point, i.e. Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws, as the fourth point, after points concerning the Act on Debtors. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Very good suggestions.]] In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? There you go, Senator Antoni Szymanski. [[Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please complete the agenda with a point on the Anti-Food Waste Act...]] Mr. Senator, I realized we can't accept your motion now because there's no printing. We don't have that option. [[Voice from the Chamber: During the sitting.]] If there is a printing, it will be possible to report it at any time. [[Good. Thank you very much.]] Would any of you like to speak on the matter of order? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 50th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Mr and Mrs Senators, I would like to inform you that if proposals of a legislative nature are not submitted to point one, i.e. Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation, the vote on this issue will take place immediately after consideration of this point. If the proposals are made, I'll announce a recess, the committee will meet and then we'll have a vote. The vote will be the same after considering point one. The point you're talking about is we're planning on putting it on the agenda. At the Senior Convention meeting, we talked about this point and there is a preliminary agreement on this. So, please make such a request at the right time. We will proceed with the review of the amendment of the Law on Water Law tomorrow. Tomorrow's session will begin at 9.00 a.m. with a resolution on the commemoration of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birthday. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote on this project will take place immediately after its consideration. If the amendments are tabled, the committee will meet and then we will vote. Tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., we'll have a recess by 11:30. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. The text of the Act is contained in print No 755, and the committee report In print No 755 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation, brought by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. The Committee on Culture and Media met on 13 March this year. The meeting was attended by a representative of the President's Chancellery, Minister Wojciech Kolarski, and Minister Paweł Lewandowski from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The rapporteur, Mr Babinetz, was also present. The Commission asks the High Senate to adopt a law. Six senators voted in favour, one senator abstained. According to the law, establishing a day of memory of Poles saving Jews is an expression of homage to Poles The heroes who, in an act of heroic courage, unparalleled bravery, compassion and solidarity between people, loyal to the highest ethical values, the commands of Christian mercy and the ethos of the sovereign Republic of Poland, rescued their Jewish neighbors from the Holocaust planned and implemented by German invaders. The Act establishes on 24 March the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. This day will be a state holiday. The bill shall enter into force the day after its signature by the President. Of course, you should be given a brief report on the Senate committee meeting. It was recalled at that meeting that the Sejm passed a law at its fiftieth ninth meeting on 6 March 2018 on the basis of the submission of the President of the Republic of Poland. The project was the subject of work by the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media. The amendments introduced by the Commission modified the title and preamble of the Act. The amendments also changed the date on which the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation was established on 17 March, as proposed by the President on 17 March, it was the day of the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The families of Ulmów in Markowa On March 24, that is, the day the Ulm family and the families of the Jews she rescued were murdered. 399 Members voted in favour of the law in the Sejm against 21 and 2 Members abstained. The meeting of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media dominated two topics in principle. The first raises the question of why the bill submitted by the President in October last year is only being conducted now, in a situation of known turmoil related to the amendment of the National Remembrance Institute Act. Minister Wojciech Kolarski was asked whether the process of this law had this political context and would possibly cover the confusion with the IPN Act. Then this law would be instrumental and even derogatory to the heroes we want to celebrate. In response, we heard that the context is purely the heroism of Polish citizens who saved Jews during World War II, as evidenced by the activity of the murdered Ulm family, as well as the activity of the Żegoty organization, which systematically tried to help the Jewish community. It was mentioned during the committee's deliberations about how dramatic the story of the Ulm family is. After all, it was the Polish navy policeman who reported them. The Polish Underground State, though disabled, passed a sentence condemning him to death and that sentence was executed. I think we all agreed during the committee's deliberations that the law absolutely does not treat instrumental heroism of the savers of the Jews, that this special day, the public holiday, is now needed, and that it should be regrettable that it has not been taken care of in advance to establish such a day. I'll tell you: if we want to do something good, every moment is the right thing to do. The second topic, which dominated the discussion at the committee meeting, was the date of 24 March. They asked if it was possible to choose, for example. On September 27, 1942, the Interim Committee for Jewish Aid was set up. Konrad Żegota, founded by Zofia Kossak-Szczucka and Wanda Krahelska-Filipowicz. It was pointed out that on 24 March there was a national day of sanctity of life in the Catholic Church, which could be created by a dissonance. At the committee meeting, I tried to explain that dissonance was gone. I will merely remind you that the day of sanctity of life was established as a result of the appeal of John Paul II in the encyclical Evangelium Vitae, announced on 25 March 1995. The Polish Pope wrote: "I suggest that every year a day of life should be celebrated in every country. Its primary goal is to build in consciences, in families, in the Church and in the secular society sensitivity to the meaning and value of human life at every moment and every condition. We know that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in response to the papal appeal on 27 August 2004 established on 24 March a national day of sanctity of life. I will admit that I myself also initially had some doubts about the coincidence of these dates: the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews and the national day of sanctity of life. But as we read in the papal encyclical, we have to admit that this idea of the holiday advocated by John Paul II is not only about defending the lives of unborn children, it is not just about celebrating groups, environments, pro-life associations, but it is connected with a wide range of issues related to respect for each life. Let me remind you that the Pope wrote in this encyclical that we should respect each human being, that we should care for the sufferer and the needy, that we should be close to the old man and the dying, express compassion in mourning, as well as hope and thirst for immortality. These are the words of John Paul. II. In this context, these festivals, church and state, speak of human life as something holy. And I will quote from the Gospel of St. John chapter XV, verse 13: there is no greater love for one's friends. So there is no contradiction in this double celebration, on the contrary, there is a mutual complement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, wait a minute. There'll probably be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you kindly. This bill was introduced by the President. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Wojciech Kolarski, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister. Welcome also to the meeting of the representative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Paweł Lewandowski, and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Mateusz Szpytma. Does the President's representative want to speak? Minister? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to represent President Andrzej Duda, the drafter of the Act establishing the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews. Allow me to add to what has already been said by the rapporteur Senator, three things. The first is the context of the legislative initiative. The President announced his will on 11 October 2017 at the ceremony at the Presidential Palace, which was a tribute to the dedicated activists of the Council of Aid to Jews. It was a celebration of the seventy-fiveth anniversary of the creation of this unique, only such institution in occupied Europe, which helped the Jews. Take a look at the context of this presidential initiative. Second thing. Just as the Council of Aids to the Jews, Zegota, has brought together representatives of all political forces from the right to the left. There were Poles with different views, referring to different value systems In the opinion of the President, this day is also a state holiday which is supposed to bring together all Poles who express different views, who refer to different systems of values, but who share the belief that the work of Poles who created Zegota and who showed their help to their Jewish fellow citizens, their brothers, motivated in various ways, whether it's social solidarity, whether it's the love of their neighbor, whether it's the teaching of the Church, or the need, or the civic attitude... that they all deserve respect. This day is to be a day of homage for them, but at the same time it is to be the day on which we show these people as a model of heroism, a model for us today and a model for future generations. The date of March 24 is a symbolic date. Two years ago, the Museum of Poles Saving Jews was established during World War II. The Ulm families, which have rediscovered this dimension of our history, our great history, what is most beautiful in Polish-Jewish relations, and what is extremely important in history... well, just in the history of the world. During the crime of the Holocaust, which was transferred by the German Third Reich to Polish lands, Poles, citizens of the Republic of Poland, who, despite threatening them and their nearest death penalty, were in a hurry to help. By adopting this law, when establishing this day, we pay tribute to those known and unknown, we pay tribute to Witold Pilecki, Jan Kark, Władysław Bartoszewski, Iren Sendlerova, the creators of Zegoty, the Ulm family, the Kowalski family, the Lamb family, but we also pay tribute to those 7,000 people who were commemorated at the Yad Vashem Institute, and we pay tribute to those thousands of Poles who are not known by name and may never be known by name. In the statement of the Society of the Righteous Among the Nations in connection with the work of this law, there is a statement that the last witnesses, the last Righteous, are slowly leaving, and this day will be the day of the witness and the day of remembrance, which will remain forever. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the President's representative. Does anyone want to ask a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this date. I've been approached by life defenders who are a little... Well, they think the coincidence of dates... It's about March 24th. It's about celebrating this holiday. In their opinion, there is some kind of collision here, because under the 2004 Sejm Resolution it is the National Day of Life, which has a dimension not only as if ecclesiastical but also more general. I would like to ask the Minister: what were the reasons why the President originally proposed the date of March 17th? Because this date has changed in the course of the work. This was mentioned by Senator Ryszka, but if the Minister wanted to repeat it, because perhaps the fears that the defenders of life have raised are simply unjustified. So that maybe the Minister would like to explain it to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u7	Thank you very much. One moment, Minister. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u8	Thank you kindly. I would like to ask the Minister if you do not believe that the introduction and adoption by the Sejm, and now by the Senate, of this law on the establishment of this new day is unfortunate. Unfortunate because, in view of the failure of the IPN Act, it is the impression that this is an instrumental step, even though it was previously thought out. At least that's what I think. That this is an unfortunate step to be taken at this point. Thank you. I ask your opinion and whether it was even discussed, taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u10	Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Jackowski. I think that the concerns or arguments put forward by the rapporteur's senator, which concern the substance, i.e. the 24th of March, on the date laid down by the 2004 Sejm as National Day of Life, have been presented. All I can do is sign off on what's been said. But I would also like to explain where the date arrived from on March 17, because I think this will also be the answer to a possible doubt about the deadline of March 24th. The President's intention was to establish a day as a tribute to Poles who, individually, not institutionally, were helping Jews. Motivated in various ways, they made the decision themselves Directed either by social solidarity or by mercy. There were different motivations. The tragedy of the Ulm family seems undisputed or seems to be an undisputed example of the heroism of Poles. On 24 March, the day of the execution on the Ulm family and on the families of the Grünfelds and Didners, the Jewish families held by the Ulmów. It is certainly such a symbolic moment. And the problem with that date was just a calendar problem. At the first moment, when we were working at the firm, we decided that the day of March 24 could encounter some doubts, e.g. life defenders, and that's why it was decided to propose the date of March 17, the opening date of the museum, the date of such an institutionalization of memory. But during the parliamentary work, this date was changed because this was the proposal made by Members. The applicant did not raise any objections to this proposal, considering that any doubts had been clarified during the discussion and during the work. I think that the words made by the rapporteur here explain that these concerns are wrong. It was simply a problem only and only the choice of the date, such a date, which will be a symbolic moment that will commemorate an important event that will illustrate the meaning of this holiday. I will explain that the date of September 27th, which also appeared during the discussion at yesterday's committee meeting, the date of the establishment of the Interim Committee for Jewish Aid, and the date of December 4th... These dates are precisely because these are dates that would commemorate institutions, not Poles, not individuals, who were not taken into account. In addition, September 27th is the day of the Polish Underground State, and the Council of Aid to Jews was part of the Polish Underground State. This date would therefore be a wrong date. And to answer the second question, I would like to say that I purposely started my speech by indicating the date and context of the notification of this initiative. This initiative was prepared to commemorate Poles in the year in which we celebrated the 7th fifth anniversary of the Council of Help for Jews. The project was addressed to the marshal's staff on 11 October. By decision of the Bureau of the Sejm, it was already subject to a procedure at the beginning of 2018. So much for the facts. And as for my opinions, my impressions... This is supposed to be a day that is separated from current politics, just as we pay tribute to Poles saving Jews, there are no party connotations, nor does it involve current politics. That was the president's intention, and that is the intention I am presenting today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to return to the stage of work on this bill that is connected with the President and the Registry. As initiators of this law, you chose the date of March 17th. We've heard the argument. Was the date in the area taken into account at that stage I call it specially "in the vicinity" on December 4th, which is mentioned by you, Minister, the date of the Council of Aid to the Jews? I speak specifically about the surroundings, not about this day, because, as you know, two days later that same year, in another place, not in Warsaw, only in Ciepiełów, on 6 December 1942, the biggest murder in the quantitative sense, more than 30 Poles saving Jews, including the Kowalski family mentioned by you, were killed there. Has the choice of December date been considered, given such motivation, that then this most complete historical reality would be preserved, i.e. commemorated organized assistance and unorganized assistance? The election of March 17 caused that we are only honoring Poles saving Jews, not honoring the Polish state which saved Jews.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u13	Mr. Senator, I should have said, "No, that date wasn't taken into account." The designer's intention was to refer to the event and to the figures that are already known to the public, which have already become a clear symbol for the public, to Poles who, despite the dangers, carried help to the Jews despite German oppression. Hence, from the very beginning, there have been discussions around the tragedy in Markowa about the date of establishing the day of memory. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u14	Are there any more questions? Senator Zdrojewska, and then Senator Wach. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u15	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the estimates. Do we have up-to-date research results indicating how many Poles or Polish citizens saving Jews? Could you tell me what it's like, if this data is consistent with the number of trees in Yad Vashem, if there are differences and what do they result from? I would also like to ask how many people were issued by Poles, i.e. How many cashiers have we had, how many trials have there been after the war? If you'd like to give me this data... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u16	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u17	Dear Senator, I am not a historian. I won't speak as a historian, I won't take bread from historians. These data are divergent. As far as Poles who saved Jews are concerned, there are several dozens to several hundred thousand people. This is an area, well, quite neglected by Polish historiography. For a good cause, such work has only recently been carried out. These are of course pioneering works, such as the book by Władysław Bartoszewski from the 1960s, and this is from my homeland. There are works by Simon Datner, in which one hundred and dozens of thousands are mentioned. But I would like to point out one thing: we should not give in to statistics. Because whether there were several tens of thousands or several hundred thousand Poles saving Jews, we not only pay tribute to these Polish heroes this day, but also show that this attitude deserves respect for the Republic of Poland, that such an attitude is an expression of Polish patriotism, that is a sign for us today and for those who will come for us. And I'm going to say the same thing with the question about moneymakers: this is also an area that is at this point the subject of historical research. There were attitudes worthy of condemnation and attitudes worthy of the utmost recognition. The authorities of the Republic must indicate heroism. The authorities of the Republic, establishing such a day Once again, they show that... They not only reward, not only honor memory, but also indicate that a given attitude is a role model. The role of the state has always been to worship heroes. And these are our nation's heroes, those who saved the Jews, regardless of the differences in respect. These are the ones we give justice to. But also, in establishing this day, we bring justice to all those who have behaved unworthyly, to all those who have disgraced themselves and disgraced the community from which they came.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u18	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u19	Thank you kindly. The Minister was kind enough to answer the previous question that the establishment of this day, the establishment of it now, is to be separated from the current policy. So I ask myself, will it be read like this? I read it differently. I read it closely in connection with current politics. Therefore, I have a very specific question: do you think that I am the only one who thinks so or one of the few? [[Please, Minister...]] [[He didn't answer...]] The simple question is, do you think I'm the only one who thinks... You say that the establishment of this day and the process of this law is now separated from the current policy. And I'm denying it. Do you think I'm the only one or one of the few who thinks so? [[The whole opposition thinks so, you know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u20	Mr. Senator, please calm down. The Minister may answer or not, as you see fit. [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Wojciech Kolarski: No, I don't know how...]] Okay, thank you. Are there any further questions? If there isn't, thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Thank you very much.]] The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Would the Minister like to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. In view of all the arguments previously raised and of the comments made in the government's position, i.e. the appointment of the date of 24 March, the government supports the President's proposal to establish a day of memory for Poles saving Jews. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u22	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u23	Does the Ministry of Culture plan any actions, suppose, educational, informational, in connection with the project establishing the day of Poles saving Jews? What action will the Ministry take? Well, this day is about to be set up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u24	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u25	The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage conducts continuous educational activities regardless of the designated dates of public holidays. We have created many institutions which, so to speak, tell our common Polish-Jewish history, among others. Ulmów family museum in Markowa. We will continue all activities and programs that serve to disseminate the history of Polish-Jewish relations, especially during World War II.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u26	Are there any further questions? [[Yes.]] Yes? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question: did you hear the senator's question, Professor Piotr Wach, which came up earlier? Did you hear them or should I repeat them? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Question about whether he is the only one who is...]] Yeah, yeah. Could you answer them if you heard them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u28	I'm a sociologist, so I'd have to do some research first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u29	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Senator Wach. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u30	In the light of this answer, I would like to ask: could you briefly characterize the discussion of the government meeting on the establishment of this day? As short as possible: was there a discussion, was it broad, or were there also arguments against? [[And what did the Foreign Ministry say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u31	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u32	The draft position of the government was prepared by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and in the form in which it was developed was positively assessed by all other resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u33	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to refer to Senator Borusewicz's question, because I think it was right and your answer did not satisfy me. Namely: is this day, 24 March, if it is adopted, and all this indicates it, present in the perspective of both the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for today and in the perspective of possibly other resorts, not to mention the entities dependent on the Ministry, such as the mentioned museum in Markowa or the Museum of Polish History or indirectly the Museum of Polin? In short, is there a directive that is being prepared or is about to be prepared? From the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage In order that these museums or other institutions, including resorts, would reveal their will to honor Poles saving Jews on that day in a special way and encourage Poles to reflect on it on that day? I'm asking for a deeper statement because the last one wasn't satisfactory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u35	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u36	Thank you, Professor, for repeating that question. I specifically said this at such a high level of generality, to make it clear that we are planning many such activities, including the establishment of an institution. Of course, the Ulm Museum also has educational events on this day. As far as I know, television is going there and certainly all events will be at least reported if they are not broadcast live. As for the details of the celebration, I will try to answer you in writing, because this is within the remit of Minister Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u37	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u38	Actually, the Minister has already answered the question I wanted to ask right now. I just didn't understand the last sentence. Well, we only have 10 days left until March 24th. If there were to be celebrations going beyond last year's... These last year's celebrations in Markowa, before the establishment of this holiday, were quite poorly advertised in Poland and therefore I would ask for information about what is still planned by the government, assuming that this law will pass through the Senate and will be approved by your President before 24 March 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u39	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u40	Like Professor Żaryn, Senator Klich too, I will give you a detailed schedule of actions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u41	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u42	Minister, I would also ask for this reply in writing. Okay? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Of course.]] I mean, the answer you asked Senator Żaryn for. I would like to ask you what opinion the Minister of Justice has expressed on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u43	At the moment, I do not have detailed information on specific opinions, but no one, if I remember correctly, submitted a substantive objection to projects that... [[I'm the one who would ask for a written answer...]] Good. [[...to answer the question of what was the opinion of the Minister of Justice.]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u44	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Mr. Marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u45	Minister, when it comes to the date of this holiday that we are setting, I see a problem, because it is also the National Day of Life, when pro-life organisations organize various initiatives, stand up with posters showing what abortion looks like, what fetuses look like dripping with blood, etc., etc. And such images are shown publicly. Do you not think that the establishment on the same day of this festival of Poles saving Jews, which will also remind us of how many Jews died and how they were murdered, can be misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u46	Please, Minister. [[We are talking about Poles who died, not Jews.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u47	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Ulma was in a very advanced pregnancy the day she was murdered. No, I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u48	Senator Rulewski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u49	I have a question about existing legislation in Poland. Well, this is obviously a big deal. Minister, don't you think there may be some reason for this, I would say, understatement To say no: differences of opinion about determining who Poles were saving Jews? As you know, the current legislation, especially concerning combatants, provides for automatic award of prizes to Poles who have their records at the Yad Vashem Institute, i.e. those who are undeniably regarded by this institute as people who saved the lives of Jews. As you know, the Polish view of the matter is different, wider, and even, I will tell you frankly, more human, because it captures every situation concerning saving Jews, and so also those situations in which it is such, I would say, column optics were made in terms of metrics, given to these people a different religion, a different world view. I am not talking about Polish citizenship without an entry on the Jewish nationality. And that's what my doubt is about. Will there not be a situation in which someone will be honored somewhere, and on the basis of Polish legislation, that it is registered as a saver of Jews at the Yad Vashem Institute, and here it will be... I don't think it's going to be contested, but maybe another person who doesn't have that title can't be referred to as the one who rescued.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u50	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u51	I think most of the people who saved the Jews didn't do it for any distinction or reward. And I think those who will be distinguished one way or another, here or there, will have no problem with being on that list or any other list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u52	Are there any further questions? Thank you, Minister. The meeting is attended by the deputy president of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Mateusz Szpytma. Would the President like to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Institute of National Remembrance, I would like to support this regulation, this law, which was voted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, as well as the date which was chosen for the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews. As the Senator rapporteur mentioned here, there have indeed been such issues as whether there is, well, clumsyness in this combination, but this has been explained here. Therefore, it will be like a fuller... well, it will be a complement to this national day of sanctity of life, because, as mentioned, Victoria Ulma was pregnant and died with an unborn child. Of course, the draft law does not contain a direct reference, it is only a date, there is no direct reference to this family. And it is clear that we honor all Poles saving Jews. Also, the fact that this initiative of the President was presented on the very day when we celebrated the anniversary of Zegoty, when this anniversary was celebrated, shows how widely this matter will be perceived. To answer these questions, which were partly addressed to Minister Lewandowski, let me say that the Institute of National Remembrance in connection with this day Whether or not it would have been established It has prepared a number of initiatives. We want to show you this exhibition about the Council of Helping Jews. Its full version, so to speak, full edition, will be shown on March 20th in the Seym of the Republic of Poland, i.e. it will be visible in a few days. And thanks to the cooperation with the Polish Post, the same exhibition, only in a rounded shape, will be seen in 6 regional branches. Together with the Polish Post Office will also be issued a stamp representing Irena Sendlerowa. There will also be many other projects in the branches. Of course, how they will be done will depend on how this day will be established. It's either a reference to that day, or it's just a reference to the date associated with the Ulm family history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u54	Stay here for a while, or there might be some questions. I will return for a moment again to the speech of a representative of the government to inform the senators that the Minister has committed himself to replying in writing to the questions asked by Senators Żarin, Klich and Borusewicz. Now, senators... [[But there are other questions.]] Wait a minute. Now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. You were the first to sign up for Senator Zdrojewska. Please, I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u55	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the president... Did you hear the question I asked the Minister at the office of the President, or should I repeat it? I understand you want me to repeat... [[Deputy President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Criminal Crimes Commission against the National Polish Mateusz Szpytma: No, you don't need it.]] Yes. Mr... 'Cause I didn't hear the answer to my question that you sent to historians. So I ask you, as a representative of the IPN, as a historian, what are the current estimates, and how extensive research is currently being carried out on the number of Poles saving Jews during World War II. What does it look like at the moment, according to the current state of the study? And whether studies are being carried out on how many people died, how many Jews died, how many people died as a result of moneymaking, reports, murders, pogroms, etc. during World War II, and perhaps just after that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u56	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u57	Minister Wojciech Kolarski is not a historian, but he spoke very competently in this regard. I would really like to confirm what he said, i.e. that these estimates, which speak of saving Jews, depend on how we define this concept of saving Jews. Indeed, estimates vary between tens of thousands... Most often there are about 300,000. But the largest number we are dealing with in the public circulation is given by Professor Jan Żaryn, now the Senator of the Republic of Poland, as he says that these Poles saving Jews could be a million. However, these are unverifiable cases, we will never confirm them, Senator, we will never know how many Poles saved Jews. We at the Institute of National Remembrance have tried for several years to identify such persons by name, so what can be done based on sources and on literature, references in which someone refers to the question of rescue... And after these tests, That could be further deepened. We have 10 and 11 thousand names, so many are identified by the name. But very often... [[Voice from the hall: This is the number of Poles saving Jews]] Poles saving Jews. But very often only references are found, e.g.A man helped us, a man named Adam helped us. So these are just things that aren't verifiable. Sometimes, too, it took dozens of people to survive. But it was also sometimes that one person rescued twenty-seven people. Just like Mr. Socha in Lviv, hiding these people in the sewers, as the film by Mrs. Agnieszka Holland showed, or just like the Żabińskie. So no one will ever answer with all your responsibility and in a clear way to that question. The same is true of the issue of those Poles who died for... sorry, those Poles... those Jews who died at the hands of Germans or... died at the hands of Poles or as a result of reports to Germans on Jews. Now very medial, i.e. He is making an extremely great career overseas and in Israel there are 200,000 Jews who were murdered or denounced and, as a result, were murdered by the Germans... [[By the Poles.]] Yeah, through the Poles. Right now, there is a very strong public debate on this issue in different countries. I was still in Israel this morning and I can say that it is actually very publicised there, it is said in the media. But we spent a few months ago on this... There is an article by Professor Grzegorz Berendt, the same author, in the Israeli "Haaretz" who mentions that so many Jews could not be killed at the hands of Poles, because the escapees from the ghetto were not 250 thousand, as estimated by Professor Jan Grabowski from Ottawa, also associated with the Polish Academy of Sciences, only about tens thousand Those who sought refuge. Some of them could actually have died... died, surely died, at the hands of the Poles or died on the news. We can't deny that. Every time I talk about it because there were these dark sides... We must always point out, everywhere, that this individual responsibility for these crimes is borne by those who contributed to it, that is, this Pole... the one who reported it, but in general the responsibility always rests on the one who caused World War II to Germany. Why am I talking about this? This is also due to the law. You may be surprised by the senators, but there is the Hague Convention, adopted by Germany before the war, which says that every country that attacks another and occupies its territory as occupied is responsible for the rule of law in this area. That, of course, sounds... Well, that sounds unthinkable in this context of Germany. Right? That the Germans come in here and keep the rule of law, make sure nothing bad happens to the people... But that is the rule of international law, and we must remember that too. If in 1938 someone had done any harm to a Jew... to a Pole of Jewish origin, they spoke differently about themselves; many Jews considered themselves to be Poles of Jewish origin, they would have dealt with the Polish state police and would have been chased. Back to that number, what I'm saying is that we're not able to determine how many were... We can give these estimates for the number of rescuers and rescuers. I often give the findings of a historian who is hard to suspect of bias, because he is not a Polish historian, Gunnar Paulsson. He wrote a book about hiding Jews in occupied Warsaw several years ago. In Warsaw, 28 thousand Jews were hidden before the Warsaw Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a town, it's just unbelievable. These 28,000 Jews, according to Gunnar Paulsson's estimates, helped between 70 and 90,000 Poles, and there were 3 and 4,000 goldsmiths. Look at the difference between 70 and 90 thousand and 3 and 4 thousand. Of course, you have to remember. It took a lot of effort to help, and in order to report someone, you could just... One informant could have spent a lot of Jews. 'Cause what kind of effort is that? It's just to figure out where someone lives and force money or report it. So we need to know that anyone who was a painter was a huge threat to everyone. While remaining with the numbers, it is slightly different to estimate the number of Poles murdered for helping Jews. Thanks to the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, because we have been focused on this for many years... This work has been conducted for many years with the Foundation of Strategic Studies, headed by Anna Szymańska-Klich. It was for the time of President Leon Kieres, and especially for Janusz Kurtyka's time. As a result of this work it was found that at least a few hundred Poles were killed for helping Jews We estimate about a thousand. The names fully verified are about 700. Part of the confirmations are single source. And so on. In the chapel in Toruń there are 1 000 100... but these confirmations are one source. It is highly likely that it was really death for helping the Jews, but it is not 100% sure. [[If, Mr. Marshal, I may ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u58	Ask around? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u59	Thank you very much. Because you gave me this number, which, of course... And it is good that you justified it, because there are many more Poles who saved Jews than 11 thousand whose names we know, you said. And for me, all the reservations you made are obvious. I'm also familiar with research... Except Paulsson's research is really archaic about the progress in history in the meantime, but also about the fact that there is an Institute of National Remembrance... And this institute. As I understand it, he is involved in explaining things not only about saving Jews, but also about publishing Jews. So let me ask you, how many of the people who gave them up do we know by name? How many guys do we know like that? After all, there were trials after the war, and I think we know the exact number. But is there any research going on right now, because I know they're huge... Well, I've read the publications that tell you about research in different villages, where there are witnesses today, who remember who published and so on. Not all of these people were convicted just after World War II. And if you were to zoom in on those numbers... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u60	That's what you say, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u61	We can't give you numbers like that. These tests are ongoing. But first of all, I will start with this, Senator, that if we are investigating the issue of Poles saving Jews, then we always do the question of those who took a different attitude. If we investigate the case of those who died for helping the Jews, we see that it happened that they died as a result of the report of Poles. The Ulm family has been cited here many times. I'm from that town where they lived, and I know they were handed over by a navy cop. His nationality is difficult... I was looking for it myself because I was cornered by the Gazeta Wyborcza when it came to the nationality of this policeman. It's unmistakably impossible to determine, but he could just feel like a Pole, and I wouldn't be surprised at that. Regarding the research of the Institute of National Remembrance, we have been studying and studying Polish-Jewish relations in individual regions, powiats for some time. We have, for example. The work of the Rzeszow branch of the IPN on the extermination of Jews in the Gorlicki district. And in it there is a part dedicated to Poles saving Jews and there is also a part dedicated to those who had different attitudes, so there is a wide range of... Of course, we are associated with the fact that we are showing these positive attitudes. This is related to the educational activity, because this is what the Minister was talking about as the President's intention to point out... We assume that in educational activity, bearing in mind the broad spectrum, we need to show above all positive attitudes in order to shape the future. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I might say that colloquially, but we don't do museum galleries just dedicated to failed works of art, but we show above all outstanding works of painting. And that was the intention, for example. in the case of the museum of Poles saving Jews. Of course, we are showing the whole issue. So we also intend to investigate these issues, but we know that other centres in Poland also investigate these issues and do so from public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a historian and I must say that there is no other country that would finance in such a way, even in such a range of financial resources, researching every attitude, and especially negative... any behaviour of Poles towards Jews. It's happening in Poland. For these studies there are some reservations in the sense that, as I read the reviews that appear, the work on this subject, I conclude that the picture that is outlined in these works is not complete. But I'm saying that historians are discussing it. I don't know if... Speaking of which, Senator... I think I answered them, but if I don't, I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u62	Thank you. You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u63	Doctor, I greatly appreciate your knowledge of these important, but also extremely difficult things from the past, your books and articles, which is why I want to ask you about the methodology. This methodology in the case of verification, those questions that are raised in this Chamber, but also in the public debate, is absolutely crucial. Yad Vashem has a methodology to determine to whom he grants the title of the Righteous Among the Nations, and, as we know, she is described very precisely. In those studies that you referred to and which I think, with scientific caution, you've lowered the number of records a little bit, limited to the one hundred percent... [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the National Polish Mateusz Szpytma: People, because there are more records.]] People, yes. ... 100% certain... This is where you used a slightly different methodology. And yet another is the working methodology associated with those who will be regarded as helping the Jews during the holiday, because it will be a broad category, starting with those who have helped their neighbors, neighbors, fellow residents with even one gesture, and ending with those who, together with their families, have made the highest sacrifice, just as the Ulms did. My question is this: what methodology will apply in the case of qualification, I do not mean the number The Polish heroes who helped the Jews during the Nazi occupation when it came to this holiday?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u65	Mr. Senator, as far as this bill is concerned, I would disagree with the senator because this bill is, I understand the intention, in general, of celebrating Poles saving Jews. She doesn't say what criteria... [[To a certain extent.]] To a certain extent. She doesn't say what criteria... This isn't a bill about this... It's not like the V.A. Act. The Veteran Act tells us what conditions must be fulfilled to be a veteran. Right? It's not here, there's no such thing, and there's no such thing. It is simply scientific research and it will be the result of scientific research that tells us who was Pole saving Jews and who was not. There is no stamp of the Polish state that this person was a Pole saving Jews. It would have to be another law, as is the case with Yad Vashem, that it is shown that there is worship, that there is Righteous among the Nations of the World, such as the law on combatants, it would have to be the law about Poles saving Jews saying who is according to the definition of Pole saving Jews. Then, according to this criterion, the administrative decision of the President of IPN would confirm that this man was a Pole saving Jews. And this law doesn't provide for that at all, no, no, this is a different degree of generality. [[Sure.]] Speaking of which... I'm gonna answer that question you asked the senator because it's important, too, it's a question of methodology. It was Professor Grzegorz Berendt, who led our work, and now unfortunately is already on unpaid leave, who adopted such a methodology that in order to be able to include someone in this group, there must be two confirmations, from different sources, then someone is considered a Pole saving Jews. Like me, too. The museum I was building in Markowa... There were such cases, because we also accepted such a methodology, that... on the wall which is in this museum, there is, now I do not remember exactly, but about a thousand names of people from Podkarpacie who saved Jews. And very often there was a lot of resentment of people who came there, why they didn't have their parents' names, their grandparents' names. And there was only the testimony of this person, their relationship. I tell them: if there is a source confirmation, for example, correspondence with the Jewish family of Israel, who thankes, etc., in conjunction with this relationship, we will put that name on the wall of the hall. There was a lot of grudges, a lot of grudges. Also if we had published this list of 10 and 11 thousand people in the IPN And she will one day, as God will give, be on the monument of Poles saving the Jews who prepare the social side It would certainly also be pretentious, on the one hand, that there are those who are not the Righteous, and on the other hand, those who speak my parents, my relatives saved the Jews, and they are not on this board.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u66	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to refer to one of the questions of Senator Zdrojewska. We know that a significant part of the evidence, or not quite the evidence, concerning the bad attitudes of Poles comes from the so-called. Augustówki, i.e. a special criminal act from post-war trials conducted on the basis of a decree of 31 August 1944. And I have a question about whether the IPN is currently preparing some solid monography, methodological. If so, it would be possible to refer to this monograph as a guide to these criminal matters. Such non-workshop learning from files, with bad methodology, and putting as evidence everything that was in them in Stalin's years, would be an obvious mistake for a historian who would thus read these materials. As far as I know, the Institute of National Remembrance has not so far indicated in its own publication how it is appropriate to approach this very important piece of art. If such a monograph is not in preparation, I would very much like to ask the chosen historian to do such a job. There are a lot of historians in the IPN who could do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u68	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u69	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't be so optimistic. This is a difficult department and it needs a really high specialization here. Indeed, there are specialists in these cases in the IPN, but unfortunately there are not enough of them. Individual articles relating to this source... There's already a few articles like that. Perhaps this is a really good postulate that in the monograph, which will one day appear, about saving Jews and about Polish-Jewish relations, there is a large part devoted to this issue. These are very difficult sources. I'm talking about the August decree. But only some of them are contaminated. Although they were created in Stalinist times, only some have Stalinist raids. From my experience, a large part of the documentation was conducted, I'll say colloquially, just as well. More and more problems are related to the collection of materials from that period. I wrote an article based on Augustówki about what happened in Markowa. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the heroic case of the Ulm family. But two years earlier, there were situations where the people of Markowa were looking for Jews who were hiding from Germans. If I ended up there, I'd give you a very incomplete picture. Because if we look at everything in such a way that people who were hostages were forced to search... This is the concept of the universally unknown issue of hostages during World War II. People associate that hostages are those who have been restricted to freedom, and here they were just people who were appointed. There were 10 houses, people were told that if they didn't go there, they wouldn't follow the Germans' orders, they would be murdered. They were forced, i.e. They were ordered to search for Jews under threat of death. And these inhabitants went and searched. Some searched for it so they couldn't find it, others searched for it. Of the more than 50 Jews who were hiding there in December 1942, almost half of them were found. The next day the Germans came and shot the Jews who were hiding. This is a matter known and described. But this shows even greater heroism of those Poles who saved. After this search, however, there were still eight families who were still hiding Jews, except the Ulm family, and 21 Jews survived. The day before yesterday, I had the privilege of giving the award to Mr Abraham Isaac Segal in Haifa, who, as one of the 21 Jews, survived the German occupation in Markowa. In this way, for example, the President is lying, though not directly, to those claims that often appear in the literature, that all Jews were murdered in Markowa after the death of the Ulm family. And such things are said by those who have great authority in Israel, Canada and the United States.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u70	You're asking Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Minister! I would like to start by thanking Minister Kolarski that he so strongly, decisively and decisively said that the Polish state is obliged above all to pay homage to heroes, heroes, national heroes, especially Poles who rescued Jews. The President has just joined this opinion. I have to say that I know the testimonies of my parents, I think most of us know what World War II looked like, how Poles behaved. My first question is this. The President here has given some figures concerning Warsaw. Could the President give some estimate, approximate figures concerning the whole area of the Republic, whether before 1939 or after 1945, an approximate number of people who saved Jews, those who did the opposite in this regard, i.e. either reported on them, or some other bad deeds they did, and also give the number of this large group which either acted passively or was not active? Because lack of activity doesn't necessarily mean passiveness, it was different situations resulting from that terrible time. And the second question, which is a little more difficult and probably runs beyond the work of the IPN, although perhaps not. I must say that for some time I am surprised that in public space it is kind of over-representation of statements concerning those cases which were marginal, i.e. those Poles who were doing wrong. What does that tell you? We hear it today, that there is a lot of inquisitiveness, there are big charges against a phenomenon that was marginal, and about this phenomenon, which was dominant, is kind of less. Does the President have an opinion on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u73	The senator's question is very difficult because, as I mentioned, we do not have such scientific findings for the whole of Poland and it is difficult to speak on this subject. It is also difficult to preserve the population of Warsaw to translate into the behaviour of inhabitants of Poland in general, because e.g. In Łódź, which was incorporated into the Reich, there were different occupation conditions and this hiding was much less than in Warsaw. This is all very incomparable, and unfortunately we must put our heads before our ignorance. We just can't say it. I appeal to this Warsaw respect... [[Feelings, estimates...]] It doesn't seem right for me as a historian to talk about feelings, I just wouldn't want to mention it. I'd say one thing. I once said in a press interview that if you talk so much about these junkyards, these figures appear... These high figures are given by the same people who in one breath say that there were only more than 6,000 Polish Righteous. So if someone like this on the one hand only gives the number of Righteous people recognized as a result of the Yad Vashem medal, and on the other hand throws very high numbers about moneymakers, then I put it this way: so let's do so that for moneymakers we will use the same procedure as for the Righteous, so let's be the process, the exact check, the given name, let's just put it on the Internet and let someone who points that name, defends themselves against the family, prove it in court. Like I said, I'm not a big fan of this. It's such a publicist statement, it's easy to make such accusations one way at a time. And as for this domination in public space... Yeah, the media says what they want. And the media often fail to pay attention to what historians determine. I, ladies and gentlemen, will say that I will return to the 200,000. We found that there could not be 200,000 murdered by Poles, we wrote this in this article. And since these issues have been very frequent abroad in recent weeks, we have made a statement which makes it clear that this is not true. We translated this statement into English and sent it to Associated Press, the Reuter Agency and the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, none of these press agencies were interested in him. The only one who published our statement is our National Press Agency. So this... [[You should have paid.]] ...there's a partial answer to what I mentioned. Anyway, for all of them... Because we have recently made several statements in these Polish-Jewish cases, they are on our website, and we have all translated into English and sent them all to these press agencies. And none of these statements were published, not only, but not even noted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u74	You're asking Senator Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u75	I was encouraged to ask you a question about your statement regarding the educational action of the Institute of National Remembrance. Of course, when it comes to the Righteous, not only those honored, but in general the help shown by Polish citizens to Poles of Jewish origin, Jews, especially these outstanding characters such as Ulmów, like the Bar family, also from Markowa, Sendlerów or Żabińska, as well as the Lviv case... Of course, all this should be absolutely emphasized. This is indeed a pattern for young people. Yeah, but because there were other cases. And the word "case" here may not be appropriate, because at a certain time, for example. In 1941, such situations were of a nature, I would say, quite common in the lands east of the Vistula. Is it at least on school programs... 'Cause I'm not talking about self-pity, but at least there should be a little bit more on school shows. Shouldn't the IPN include this element in its educational action? Because probably two years ago, there was a study of upper secondary school students, which is middle school, and a question about Silk 46%. answered that there the Germans murdered Poles saving Jews, and 26% That the Germans and the Russians murdered Polish officers there. So it already shows some complete ignorance. And I emphasize once again: there's nothing to self-pity about, but you have to know. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u77	I'm afraid if it wasn't for the Institute of National Remembrance, those percentages would be even worse. And it's not just a matter of what the senator was talking about. When you ask your students who murdered Polish officers in Katyn, they usually, if I remember correctly, answer that Germany. So, unfortunately, this knowledge is absent. Maybe this is also the result of the fact that in recent years history has not been taught as much importance as it should be. I am, of course, a historian and always a historian will have high expectations of what he is doing, so that the knowledge of history is greater. But I think it's important that Especially in a country like ours, history was very much present in education. Because if it's not, then we're just in trouble for it later. As far as education is concerned, we're talking about it, Mr. Senator. We're really talking about this. Even in the educational file about Poles saving Jews, there is a statement by Simon Datner, which tells us how one could behave, that it is a choice of four different behaviors in this situation. It was possible to help temporarily; it could be helped for a long time; it could be reported on Jews in accordance with the law of occupation; and it was possible to take an attitude... i.e. they could be neither supported nor helped nor spent. Of course, they're so... As a historian, he tells us what were the possibilities, who behaved, what were the choices. Most were those who did not take a stand on this issue, but I am talking about an attitude, because it has been very different when it comes to declarative issues. If you ask different people, then... some people, those who did not take an active stance on this matter, one way or the other, could be solidarity with the persecuted, doomed Jews, but also those who enjoyed it. I think it is important to show this whole spectrum of behavior, but before we do this, let us also show the role of the Polish state, let us also show the role of this country in exile, as well as that which worked in occupied Poland, because this is something that was not really anywhere. Official factors, those that represented the Polish people, called to the world to do something about this terrible tragedy, with the destruction of Jews, and to the extent of their modest possibilities helped. And as I say, we're showing it, we're showing various examples, just like the senator pointed out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u78	The question is Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u79	Thank you kindly. First of all, I would like to thank you first of all for the very interesting and in-depth answers, such as the conditions, such as rigor, when it comes to asking questions. Actually, I have two questions. First: what are the fundamental differences between IPN and Yad Vashem in terms of assessing the number of persons operating, let's call it positive and negative? What are the fundamental differences and is there a dialogue in this regard? That's the first question. And second question. Don't you think that a certain exaggeration in emphasising negative attitudes is the result of this... Actually according to the Roman formula nemo iudex in causa sua, i.e. Nobody's a judge on their own case, except maybe scientists, except for the kind of limited statements that are credible, the rest is so... Isn't it that it's fierce to take it at such an unfortunate moment, which is now, we're just making things worse, i.e. That it doesn't work in plus and it doesn't lead me to say that it doesn't work in a good way? But the first question is about discrepancies. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u81	Mr. Senator, when it comes to Yad Vashem and the IPN, this is an honorary award from Israel, the highest honor that a non-Jewish non-Citizen of Israel can ever meet. This is the Yad Vashem medal. And as early as 1963... [[But I was actually asking about the fundamental differences between institutes in terms of estimates. That's what I meant mostly.]] As far as numbers are concerned, the Yad Vashem Institute has no clear position either, as many were. Poles saving Jews. They use this term "The Righteous Among the Nations," they give this distinction during the year, and the number is updated in January each year. And at the same time, more than scientific criteria are taken into account, because if we have e.g. such a criterion that in order for someone to become the Righteous, there must be a testimony from a Jew, so that is more than a scientific criterion. Because this person may have a whole range of testimonies, but if no one confirms it from the Jewish side, this man will not receive the award. I don't get into that. Each country has a sovereign right, freedom to establish its scope, who is its hero and how it decides about this heroism. State e.g. They also assumed, when adopting the law on combatants, that the cash benefit was not due to those opposition participants who functioned only during the legal period of "Solidarity." Right? Well, that's the choice of the legislator. Such a choice was made by the State and those persons who acted only during the legal period of "Solidarity' do not receive the cash benefits. And here you can't have any resentment, because that's just the decision. So that everyone determines it themselves. As for us, the Institute of National Remembrance, we cannot give the number of Poles saving Jews. I was talking about different estimates. Those whose names we know are 10,000, so that's about 80... I can't say that from the march, from the head. I'm not a mathematician. What's the percentage, but if there's 6,000 800, and there's 11,000, that's about 80%. ... probably as many names as Yad Vashem has. I'm sorry, I don't remember the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u82	Well, that's actually another form of question: is fixing now, today, is it fortunate? I'm asking, because in this case, we're actually a judge on our own case, and we're, so to speak, watched with a certain suspicion. My position is, in fact, that this is an unfortunate time to proceed on this day. Besides, it's already started, it can't be undone, the Senate will vote... Well, that's what I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u83	No, Senator, there is no such fear, because we can always use this argument. This is a very clear basis. Mr President took this noble initiative in October, when there may not have been any crisis, but some misunderstandings between Poland and Israel, when these relations were in the best possible form so far. I wouldn't see it that way because it's the logical consequence of the President's submission of this project to the marshal's staff. Even if we consider that we should answer and explain why we are adopting such a day, although this is questionable, then we can use this argument that the procedure for adopting this law began before there was any controversy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I have a question for you. Would you like to say, at least in a few points, what was the specificity of the occupation legislation, the German legislation towards Poles who tried to save Jews, in relation to legislation in other countries of occupied Europe? Were there any exceptions, i.e. Was saving the Jews at risk of special sanctions, other than the death penalty? I'm talking here about a 1941 regulation that sentenced them to death for saving the Jews. As far as I am aware, Poland was the only country of occupied Europe in which such a solution was in force. But the question is whether there were other solutions and what it looked like in relation to other countries of occupied Europe. Thank you. [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish National Mateusz Szpytma: Is it OK, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u86	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u87	Dear Senator, it is well known that in October 1941, Hans Frank issued a regulation on the regulation of the Jewish residence in the General Government, in which information was first made that anyone who would help the Jews was facing a death penalty. And this provision was in force, and a year later it was tightened up in such a way that the punishment was also imposed on those who knew about it and did not report it, only that at that time the prison was in danger. So, for the fact not only of concealing, but also of not informing about it, he threatened, for example. A concentration camp. And we know from history that this law has been enforced, and I mentioned here that about a thousand Poles died for helping Jews. But it was not enforced consistently because Germany used a specific kind of act of grace. Namely some of the perpetrators at the request of e.g. They converted the death penalty into a concentration camp or a prison as a result of various cunning. And we know such cases of people imprisoned in Auschwitz-Birkenau for helping Jews. Some of them survived, and some of them died. We also know that you could buy yourself out just a huge amount of cash. But returning to the senator's basic question, I would like to say that it is not true that Poland was the only country in which the death penalty for helping Jews was threatened. There were most people murdered here, most of them were enforced, but such punishment threatened also in Serbia, and threatened also in Ukraine, which was occupied by the Soviet Union. I've been hearing about it lately. But I don't know if it's true, and I can't verify it. It's said that in Norway, too. But I would like to say that there was no such punishment in occupied France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and those who helped Annie Frank, the famous girl whose diary was preserved They were punished for helping the Jews with a mandate. And then they hid the Jews for the second time. And this family, which was hiding the Jews for the second time, the Germans sent them to the concentration camp for recidivism, so even in such a situation the death penalty was not applied. Because it is impossible to compare the German occupation in Poland and in the west of Europe at all. Those were two completely different worlds. And that is the problem with our message abroad, that those who write in Le Monde and other magazines, if they remember the occupation They don't remember, but they remember from the handover of fathers and grandparents. It has a completely different picture of this occupation, it looked completely different there than the one that was in Poland. It was just two completely different realities. Just as there were two different realities when it comes to occupation in Poland during World War I... It is simply that the occupation that took place between 1939 and 1945 does not know the precedent.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u89	In the course of actions that are now taking place From the IPN law to the law from the parties, if you can say so, undoubtedly there are many regrets, tears and various pretensions, mostly moral, political, but also material. And my question is whether the Poles, about whom Senator Ryszka spoke, were heroic heroes, performing after the end of World War II with claims against the Polish state or Jewish citizens, or the Jewish state, Israeli state, but that's not until later. In connection with the hiding of Jews, for the expenses they incurred. And they had to, and I'll give you an example. Such an example is probably a person named Kaczmarek; Ringelblum said that he hid 60 people during the occupation for several years, unfortunately with a tragic result... The question is whether the Poles we are talking about, who we are sacrificing this day, with such efforts were performing and how they ended.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u90	Mr. Senator, there are so many different cases... There are many different stories. There have actually been cases where concealment took place on a contractual basis. I think we even have two contracts written down that were during the war, in 1942 or in 1943. We're gonna hide, and for that, we're gonna be given this money, and that's the amount of money. So it was different. We can't tell how much of it was hiding for money, it's unverified. In the museum that I created in Markowa, I placed a multimedia document like this, you can listen to it. This is a report of Poles from Przemyśl or Jarosław and a conclusion. This is an awkward document for Poles and Jews. Namely, the Jews who came to the Poles asking for help said: Save us, we will give you everything. And it was agreed that for this assistance money and the tenement that these people owned will be provided, if this rescue succeeds, it will be effective. And then what happened after the war? After the war it turned out that the Jews had transferred money under this contract, but the tenants didn't. And there is a request made to the Jewish Historical Institute, in which those Poles who rescued the Jews, ask for intervention so that these Jews carry out this contract. So there were very different situations. Very different. [[Minister, I'm not interested in helping, I'm not interested in helping, I'm just... of course I'm interested in who is... not helping, just helping... It's about creating infrastructure and getting resources to maintain, maintain health, store...]] But in what way? Did... [[Storage.]] [[...it was necessary to build...]] No, but in what way... Did anyone demand anything? And for what? If you'd just... [[Were the Poles performing in a heroic manner, as was said here, carrying out this storage... Because this involved costs and some infrastructure, necessary if those stored agreed to it. Well, it's about daily living, food, stuff like that. That's all it is.]] Oh, that's the thing. Maybe those cases were... I wouldn't be surprised if there were, but I don't know them personally. Well, the thing is... well, it was also that the Jews put money on their livelihoods as long as they had enough money. Well, they had to be fed, and that was actually a huge cost. And even if there was such a situation that the Jews had put on their livelihood, but there was no extra remuneration for those who provided this refuge, then Yad Vashem, apparently, grants a medal. And if there was something extra, with extra, or just maintenance plus something extra, then the Yad Vashem Institute by definition does not grant the title of "The Righteous Among the Nations of the World." [[I understand, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u92	Mr. President, we were just talking about education and how it's being conducted right now. I think that an extremely important theme of the work of IPN and other institutions within the framework of education is the collection of these certificates, which were not formally recognised by the Yad Vashem Institute, those certificates of people rescued from the extermination, which speak about the aid granted, the support they experienced from Poles, Polish citizens. Is this the kind of thing the institute is doing? Does he collect such information? And if you don't Of course, I encourage you to do so. Do you see the possibility of such a library, this type of documentation to start running? As a minister years ago, I had the pleasure of dedicating one of the ladies living in Israel for the testimony she shared by publishing in a bond fantastically describing support from her neighbors, peers and Polish families for herself, and later for the sisters who kept it in their monastery, so that she survived. It seems to me that such certificates of survivors, even if they are not of formal legal importance, would have a great educational and promotional importance if only they were collected by the Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u93	I agree with the senator 100%. Such cases should always be recorded, recorded. Unfortunately, this was very different and we have not worked out what the Jewish side has done. Yad Vashem records huge numbers of people. The Steven Spielberg Foundation did it on a large scale, but we did it very little. The IPN is trying to do that. We record these people, although there aren't many of them. Today there are about 160 people awarded a medal to the Righteous Among the Nations. Of course, there are more people we are talking about as saving Jews. I know that it's not just the IPN that's taking this kind of action. This also begins to be done by the Museum of Poles Saving Jews, and the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude was set up in December last year, so we know that this is done. It's a little late, but better late than never.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u95	Mr. President, you're back from Israel today. [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the National Polish Mateusz Szpytma: Yes, I left at 5:00 p.m.]] Therefore, I have a brief question: have you spoken in Israel, e.g. with Yad Vashem or with other factors, government factors, about this law and the law on IPN? That's the first question. Second question: why did you, as vice president and President Sharek, see it on TV in public? Did you support that law on amending the IPN Act? Or else, did you send any signals, any warnings to the creators of this bill, to the government and to the Members? This law was about your institution and your position was crucial. Have you warned what that law can bring, what its consequences will be? [[That's not the bill.]] [[This has nothing to do with this bill.]] [[It's not about anything at all.]] [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Crimes Commission against the National Polish Mateusz Szpytma: Mr. Marshal, should I answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u96	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u97	As far as the senator's first question is concerned, I wasn't authorized to discuss this bill. I wasn't the applicant, so the subject wasn't raised. As far as the National Remembrance Institute Act is concerned, two weeks ago, when I was in Israel, I was a member of this legal-historical dialogue team, and we talked to the Israeli party and explained it to her. Well, actually, it was explained by lawyers from the Ministry of Justice. About the bill to amend the National Remembrance Institute Act, which the senator asked about. It was this big deal. We were asked for an opinion in 2016 and the then president of the Institute of National Remembrance, Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, supported the amendment of this law, with some reservations, but it was a positive assessment. As far as our speeches are concerned, I do not follow all the speeches made by President Shark, but I think that, like me... that we didn't defend the strict sense of this bill as much as we explained how the questions were... Journalists didn't actually ask us if we were in favour of this bill, because we usually answer that we are not the legislator, we are the applicant, we are the legislator, we are the government officials who are supposed to implement the laws, whatever they are, and if we disagree with these regulations, then we have only one way, we know which way. Me, for example. I've been asked all the time by journalists if this bill is against the rights of scientists. According to what's in this bill, that there's a countertype, there's an exclusion, in this situation I explained, I said that it doesn't apply to scientists. That's enough, as I say, it's a matter of another law. In a situation where we discuss such a noble subject of honoring the Righteous, I would no longer return to that matter, especially since very often these arguments which... that all arguments have already been heard everywhere, arguments on both sides.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwiński, and then Mr. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, without denying at all the meaning of this law and the need for it to be passed, I have 2 comments of a more general nature. Both from your careful presentation, but in some ways limited, as well as from other statements, it appears that we are still investigating World War II and will do so for a very long time. We're kind of behind schedule. That's one thing. Perhaps once there was enough propaganda, not reliable research. And you can see how important the role of the IPN in this area is now, because it has a very strong responsibility as a state institution. You have a double responsibility: because the state has appointed you, the state is funding you, but also because you are interfering... maybe you are not interfering, but you are investigating matters closely related to the country's historical policy. And no one else will. And you said here yourself that the occupation was different. Somewhere else, and some of us, in my opinion, are the only ones who can investigate our occupation. The question is, do you not think that... Because, as I say, I have the impression that we are talking a lot about the martyrdom of the Jewish people, and rightly so, but we have neglected the martyrdom of the Polish people a little bit. Isn't it time to deal with World War II, the martyrdom of the Polish people, e.g. also building a museum in the centre of the state, in Warsaw not World War II, as in Gdańsk, only a museum of Polish Martyrology? We have concentration camps, extermination camps all over the country, but we do not have one place to focus, where we would show our losses, also for the educational purposes mentioned here, also to educate those who come to us and have not heard of such an occupation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u100	Mr. Senator, as far as the first part of your speech is concerned, I feel the same way as the senator. Namely, it is such that the issues of research into the history of the Second World War are, however, very neglected and there was no proper commitment here. It's like I can even throw a pebble in my own backyard here. Because when the Institute of National Remembrance was created, the intention was primarily to focus on communist times. It was unexplored, we knew very little about the safety apparatus, we knew nothing about the structures, so the vast majority of the forces and resources that were in the IPN, over the past dozen years have been devoted to these matters. So today, as the Institute of National Remembrance, as a Polish state, we are really well-informed in these matters, we can discuss this at a high level of professionalism, but as far as World War II is concerned, there is still a lot to explore. We thought these cases were being investigated during the communism period... Well, they were, but not exactly enough to make it really... to make it a step enough. About the memorial... This is already a matter of the Ministry of Culture, how it will approach commemoration in the form of museums. I think that a step in the right direction is that, finally, after many years of breaks, the construction of the Museum of Martyrology of Polish Villages starts again. The construction of this museum has been stopped for many years, and now it seems that funds have been granted from the European Union, there are several million for the permanent exhibition, and I know that there is a tender for a company that will prepare this permanent exhibition. After all, in the world we know nothing about the fact that during World War II there were almost 800 pacifications of the village by the Germans. And it's just that... I can tell you right here that I even allowed myself this phrase when there was a meeting in Israel, in Tel Aviv... Because it was a question of whether or not the charge was brought against me by the lady who represented, among other things. Yad Vashem that we are trying in Poland to equalize the victims of Poles and the victims of Jews during World War II. I answered that every life is just as valuable, but of course we know that the Jewish people were as a nation in a much larger, unimaginably larger scale murdered, except that, as I said then, we have the impression that the state in Israel does not know at all what the situation of Poles was, i.e. that Poland and Poles were also victims of World War II. Of course, they denied it, they said it wasn't, but reading the Israeli press clearly shows that this knowledge is not there enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, the question is in two parts. Did the State of Israel give any gratification to Poles saving Jews? And the second part. Did Poles saving Jews demand some gratification from the State of Israel for their actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u103	As far as this first issue is concerned, I am making such a reservation here that I do not quite have it checked, I am not quite sure of my speech, but at 90% I can say that such a benefit to the Righteous is paid not directly by Yad Vashem, but there is a foundation, perhaps an American, that pays several dozen dollars a month to those who have received the Medal of the Righteous Among the Nations. Something reminds me of talking to the Righteous. And as for Poles saving Jews to go to Israel for gratification, I do not know this case That doesn't mean it wasn't there, it's just that I'm not familiar with the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u104	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish Mateusz Szpytma: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u105	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Mr. President! The National Day of Remembrance of Poles Saving Jews is not an attempt to cover the confusion associated with the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. And we're not trying to force anyone to believe that when we amended this IPN bill, it wasn't our intention to block research into the history of the Holocaust. It's just that in Israel and some of the American environments, either they didn't understand or they didn't want to understand. That as a Polish nation we have the right to defend our dignity against saying that we are accomplices to the Holocaust. But there is no bad thing that doesn't work out, Felix culpa, blessed wine. Whatever to say, now abroad is greater awareness that the extermination camps built on occupied lands, on the Polish lands occupied by the Germans were not Polish, but German. Moreover, if someone writes or says otherwise now, he will not only be ignorant, a liar, but also in accordance with the provisions of the IPN Act we will meet in court. Like he does, for example. Jan Gross, preaching false information that Poles murdered 200,000 Jews, which would indicate that Poles murdered more Jews than Germany. Well, if he continues to preach, then of course we'll meet in court. That's one thing. Second, when establishing the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews, we deal with this supposedly common Polish anti-Semitism. Our current historical narrative has already come to the West, shows what it actually looked like. German occupation in Polish lands. With some pain, so to speak, we are making up for these historical negligence, because, as it turns out, the Western world associates occupation in Poland almost exclusively with the extermination of Jews. Even the Warsaw Uprising is often confused with the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. What are we supposed to do? Nothing else, but to struggle with the truth, to speak and write that Poland was the first to oppose Germany, that during the war the Polish authorities in exile alarmed the Allies, talked about what was happening in concentration camps, that in our home It was the only case among the countries occupied by the Germans that the Polish Underground State was operating, and in its structures since 1942, there was Żegota, and that only in Poland for helping Jews was the death penalty, and in the softest version. Sending to a concentration camp or to a heavy prison, where most people died anyway. It is regrettable that so far Poles saving Jews have only been spoken of by the Righteous among the Nations. There were individual names: Ulmów, Kowalski, Irena Sendlerowa, Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, Witold Pilecki, Jan Karski, Polish ambassador Konstanty Rokicki and Henryk Sławik. Historians estimate that such heroes were hundreds of thousands, because in order to save 100,000 Jews in the Polish lands occupied by the Germans, there had to be several times a larger network of help. It is time to show the community not only international, but also Polish, as this discussion shows, these hundreds of thousands of Polish names, the names of real heroes, which we owe honor and memory to. At least they partially saved the Jews from German genocide. All these Polish Righteous Among the Nations are disproportionately greater than merely helping a neighbor. Therefore, these more than 6,000 trees in the Yad Vashem garden for honoring Poles are far too little. I agree with what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said, that there is one big tree missing from Yad Vashem for the Polish people, because it was the Poles who saved the great majority of the survivors in the face of the threat of their lives and their loved ones. We have nothing to be ashamed of in the Polish past. Which of the European countries has captain Witold Pilecki? Yes, we should be ashamed that for 73 years since the end of World War II Poland has not found time to honor the heroism of the Righteous. Finally, I would like to mention the initiative that was born in Toruń in June 2012. Namely in the Sanctuary of the NMP Star of New Evangelization and St. John Paul II was founded the Chapel of Memory of Polish Martyrs. Until the construction of this vote, until 2012, no one in Poland celebrated Poles saving Jews on such a scale. Thanks to the cooperation of the listeners of Radio Maryja and Television, Trwam was able to collect tens of thousands of testimonies and then commemorate in this beautiful chapel the names of heroes - martyrs, who in this hell of hatred behaved as they had to be, i.e. they were angels of true love. All senators recently received an album entitled "Remembrance and Hope" about a thousand hundred Poles who were murdered for saving Jews and were honoured in this chapel. This is the album that shows the heroism of Poles in some part. Returning to our bill, I would like to say that it is absolutely impossible to agree with those who say that this law is being passed at the wrong time. Just today, right now, when this international raging is going on, the hunt for Poland, when the truth about World War II is being manipulated, it is necessary to tell the world, as well as what some Poles, including the senators and Members, should know about the history they should know. Right now is the best time, because the world has opened its eyes and ears to what is happening in Poland, to the problems Poland has with Israel or wider With Jewish backgrounds in the United States. It is time to say this clearly, clearly and loudly: the Jewish nation was not the only nation of victims during World War II. If that were the case, if we agreed to do it, it would mean that we were the perpetrators of the victim, too. Our sacrifice is as great as our heroism, which is also great. I am convinced that the day of memory of Poles saving Jews, which is to be celebrated on the anniversary of the murder of the Ulm family by the Germans, as well as the Jewish families of Goldman, Grünfelds and Didners hidden by them, will certainly contribute to a better understanding, as well as a joint study of history, drawing heroic names from her, but also branding heroic names, as Mr. President said here. Those who behaved then, to put it mildly, unworthy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion we are having today would not have been so profound if it had not been for the amendment of the IPN Act. And don't tell me that today's bill doesn't fit into this discussion, even if it was filed earlier. But he's on the agenda right now. Of course, you have to do research... And I expect that the IPN will prepare and implement such a research project concerning the whole of Poland within the then borders of the Second Republic of Poland. Because since we're complaining or you, Mr. President, are complaining that this research isn't so detailed, so deep and so wide... Well, it's your fault. Polish history has made progress here, but I think the IPN has remained behind. The IPN wants to investigate and commemorate mainly those Polish citizens who saved Jews. And I do not agree with the principle that Poles who saved Jews were representatives of the Polish people, and those who spent them were not representatives of the Polish people, they were not Poles. It is understandable that in this terrible situation of the Nazi occupation The most was the attitudes of those who were afraid and did not involve themselves in any help. First of all, because they were scared. But there was a group of people who carried such help, despite fear. In turn there was a group of people who were earning in this situation, and not only for ideological reasons, but received gratification for it. The painters received money from the buying Jews, but also, if the Jew did not redeem himself, of course they received money. Some money, other different food services. From the German authorities of Hitler. Are we good judges in our own cause? I would prefer such a bill or resolution to be passed in the Israeli Parliament. That would, of course, be a different situation. Is that impossible? I don't think that's possible right now. But in the future? If these tests, ours, but also theirs, move forward... This would, of course, be the best situation. Because no one's a judge on their own. Władysław Bartoszewski told me that it was saved here, in the territory of Poland, then Poland, about 40,000 Jews. I also know from research that 120,000 people escaped from the ghetto. If we subtract $40,000 from $120,000, that leaves $80,000. What happened to them? That's the number we should be ashamed of. There are also a number of other numbers of 150 thousand that escaped, and 50 thousand that were saved. But the proportions are the same. These are the issues, so to speak, statistically, and statistics in this situation are a terrible thing. But you have to look at her, too. Of course, the most important are individual decisions. And they need to be tested. But in the procedure recognized by Yad Vashem... the Poles who are the Righteous among the Nations are 6,000 700. In the post-war trials conducted under this decree of August and under another procedure, those who were tried for embalming were about 12 thousand. The Ulm family murder case is very important to us. You can see it as in glass magnifying various attitudes of the Ulm family, which paid with the life of saving their Jewish neighbors, and a Polish navy policeman... [[It wasn't found.]] ...who reported and caused the death of this family, as well as our Jewish brothers hiding in it. That was the reality. She's the one you have to talk about. And you should have written about her. You should have written at least half a sentence about the fact that there were different attitudes. We thank you for your heroic attitudes. When we show other attitudes, we extract and illuminate heroic attitudes. We illuminate them with light, which should fall on Polish citizens saving Jews. This bill doesn't do that. She shows that we should remain complacent. And that if we fight in the chest, it's in someone else's chest. That is why I am proposing an amendment that speaks about Polish citizens who are helping Jews. This is a broader concept than the Poles. Polish citizens are also Ukrainians or Belarusians who were helping. They could also be Jews who helped Jews and were Polish citizens. I don't know why there's a limit to ethnicity. There is another important issue. I do, and I want to... I propose an amendment concerning the introduction to the recital of the passage, which should read as follows: "Remembering the millions of Jews murdered in occupied Polish lands, which did not receive aid, is the day of Poles helping Jews. Such a sentence should be found here, because there is no day in Poland for Jews murdered in Poland. There isn't. We establish a day of Poles who helped Jews, but the day of the murdered Jews is not there. [[Holocaust Day.]] I think it is necessary to create a balance here. Finally, the Senator of the Republic of Poland Władysław Bartoszewski was a Żegota activist. It's worth remembering. And it is worth remembering that during the anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising at the Powęzkowski Cemetery he met whistles and hostile shouts. I'm talking about making those who did this feel ashamed. I would also like to say that a group of senators, despite my procedures and my translations, went on trips to a South American activist who was included, in a family group, with certain suspicions of embezzlement. Even though I told them about it, I also told them that he was not a good tourer of the Senators of the Republic. They went there. I remind you of it with regret and pain. And this also shows the attitude of some to this terrible tragedy that took place on Polish soil. And this is also a clue that... If we reject any doubts and say, Poles were only good people, they were honest people, then this type of action will be accepted. High Izbo, once again, I hope that the IPN will carry out comprehensive research so that we can, based on these comprehensive studies, know more. These studies, which are limited, partial, confirm my conviction that I should have said what I said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ad vocem. I'm sorry to start with this, but in response to what you said, Mr. Marshal, about Mr. Jan Kobylanski, without mentioning his name, although it was known that he was involved... Remember, before you speak publicly on this matter next time, that the investigative officer of the Institute of National Remembrance at the time was investigating the suspicion of this gentleman about embalming or possible reports on Jews in the Auschwitz camp and this was not confirmed. Therefore, for today it is merely a discourse. In this regard, it is also stated that people's visits to it show that they agree with the attitude that it is not known whether it was. Please be careful of these bunk inaccuracies stylistic, linguistic, but also material inaccuracies, because... although we may offend people, but why? If we want to live in the truth, it's better not to. But that's by the way. Just so we're clear. I don't know what the truth was. I don't know what the truth was, but neither do you. [[But how do you know who it is?]] Sir, because I'm a man, not a monkey. That's why I know. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, all the joy of polemics with you... The polemics with you are a great hope for the future and the development of the Senate. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, it's more serious now. I, of course, thank the initiators very much, above all, to Mr President and Mr Wojciech Kolarski, who represents the President here today, because this National Day of Life is of course... because this National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation will be a very important celebration and celebration which, I hope, every year will gather many, many Poles, hundreds of thousands, millions of Poles around this topic. For once a year, I'm sure that's what these people deserve. But I also want to say that I'm feeling some personal satisfaction. Although I hope that it is not only personal but also environmental, and since it is not entirely known, I will gladly share it. Well, this satisfaction is related to the fact that I was one of those who started out in the mid-1990s. As much as we were able to do at the time. Research on Poles saving Jews. Of course it can be said that we did not start them, because they, of course, were also conducted in the period of the Polish People's Republic. Mr Władysław Bartoszewski, mentioned here many times, is of course a pioneer in this research. But in free Poland, my environment was probably one of the first... Of course, it wasn't mine in that sense... I mean. I wasn't the leader there, I was just one of the young scientists going into that space. It was the Committee for the Remembrance of Poles Saving Jews 'Cause that's what we called ourselves in the mid-1990s. It was created on the initiative of Ms Anna Poraj-Selector from Canada, Polka. Very well deserved, by the way interesting, people were members of this committee: Mr Andrzej Rottermund, Stanisław Broniewski, Janusz Durko, Tomasz Strzembosz, later his brother Adam Strzembosz, who is today the chairman of this committee. And from the beginning, this committee had two goals. One goal was to build a monument in Warsaw, finally at pl. Grzybowski. And this list, which Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance was talking about today, those 10 and 11 thousand people verified, double-verified on the basis of two sources... This list of Poles saving Jews is being prepared so that this monument can finally stand. And thank you very much, Mr President, that you have publicly confirmed the existence of this list. The second goal of this committee is to collect files, archives. To this day it is approx. 900 files, which are located in the Archive of New Acts. I am the host of these files as chairman of the Historical Commission of this Committee. And I have to say clearly, of course, on the basis of this little experience, that in the 1990s and in the early 2000s nobody was really interested in these files. I mean, there wasn't a power in the historical environment that would make someone want to be interested in this collection that we've collected. Today, for scientists who deal with Polish-Jewish relations during World War II, it is much better because this collection is known and simply people reach out to it as one of the obvious, one of many collections that can be seen and examined. I am talking about this because of this, of course, it shows a story in fact of deep shame from the fact that there were some decent Poles who were saving Jews. I know it sounds awful, but we really were in the 1990s as a society terribly trained to be ashamed, while at the same time we had a huge chance to gather as much knowledge as possible, messages about family messages... And these family messages among Poles, I do not want to say that most families, but they are definitely present. And that confirms a lot of conversations, sources, books, relationships. They are. In almost every Polish family we will find someone who has just saved Jews Of course, it is primarily in the form of emergency aid, not permanent aid. In the history of our Polish families during World War II, in many stories of specific families, this part of the theme of the Second War, which is saving Jews, is also written. And we, as a Polish society, have certainly done too little. I agree with all of these votes. To honor this part of the Polish Fighting Party, i.e. Poles saving Jews. It is all the more good that such a National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews will be celebrated. Of course, that's not the only reason And here I would like to refer to the statistical issues, that there were these deep omissions, we do not know exactly how many Poles saving Jews there were. Well, Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance pointed out a number of workshop issues, methodological issues, and I don't want to repeat that now. That make us never know how many Poles were saving Jews. I will only point out two new issues that I will leave to you to consider. The first one is obvious. Namely, the Third Reich defined who was Jewish during World War II, and these were racist criteria. Of course, the Council of Helping Jews in this connection accepted these criteria and helped all Jews who were considered Jews by the Third Reich. Remember that, because it's an objective fact and there's no reason to contest it. But the second point that I will remind you of or point out for the first time may give reason to contest. Historians, who deal with the Second Commonwealth, say that in 1939 there were about 3 million 400 thousand Jews or Poles of Jewish origin, as if entering the new monstrous ground of World War II. But historians ask not only this question, they ask many other questions. One of the questions that are justified in the case of Poles saving Jews is the question about the degree and effects of assimilation of Poles of Jewish origin in the Second Republic of Poland. According to these most careful statistical calculations of Poles of Jewish origin, who assimilated themselves, there were about 200 thousand. What does it mean in the context of Poles saving Jews that 200,000 Jews were de facto 200 percent Poles? They themselves did not feel that they belonged to the Jewish nation or to the Jewish religion, because they were Poles because they assimilated on the level of the first, second, third generation. The process of assimilation was different. Suddenly, in 1939, it turned out that they were Jews. Emanuel Ringelblum wrote a very nice sentence, trying to answer the question of what it means. And he answered that in Polish tradition the family is so great value, that if there is one person of Jewish origin in the Polish family, and all the others are the worst anti-Semitics, then this family will not release this Jew. Remember that. Emanuel Ringelblum, I understand, is an authority for us. This is a certain opinion, of course, a certain assessment, unverifiable as all the assessments that concern this issue, but it is a very interesting hint if we are considering this fundamental question: how many Poles saved Jews? In the case of this definition, we have a lot of problems with sub-definings. Who is the Pole of Jewish origin? What does emergency and organized assistance mean? And what is this heroism about? Is he common, or is he something special? It's not that simple to answer that question. Because, contrary to appearances, it can be said that some Poles saving Jews proved to be a huge heroism, and some Poles saving Jews with just decency. So this rescue isn't just in the word "heroism." Since the Natanson family, who was a member of the underworld of the National Party, was assimilated as Poles were considered Poles even 200 percent... But also everyone knew the Natanson family. 'Cause you'd have to be a fool not to know the Natanson family in the Second Polish Republic and, as you know, no one ever spent this family. And was it heroism or just decency? During the war Jan Brzechwa went to the same pubs as before the war, especially demonstrating his courage, but, of course, none of the Polish writers who knew him before the war gave him up Mr Urbanek, author of the biography of Jan Brzechwa, writes very nicely about this. Was it heroism on their part, or was it decency? That's the kind of question I can ask a lot about, because it shows how much we're doomed to multiple numbers on the one hand. And that's why these numbers start at tens of thousands... But now, for example. Yad Vashem Institute in the Book of the Righteous writes: of course we know that 6,000 600 are not the right number of Poles saving Jews. Professor Gutman says it's up to 200,000 in his opinion. Other historians say 300,000. I say there were up to 1 million of them, recognizing... Or even more, I don't know. But my estimate is that 1 million is a very likely number of just multilateral aid, both of which was definitely more, I say to be clear, such as this symbolic slice of bread... But it wasn't like that slice of bread didn't work either. We have German documents saying that in the sentence of the concentration camp it was written that the sentence was for a slice of bread. So it's not just a metaphor, it's a reality. So this incident aid was very important, too. So let this National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation be a tribute to many. But at the same time, it's worth asking yourself a question, Mr President, it's mostly for you. Is this really the most appropriate choice of date? I'm directing this to the Minister, too. When I asked the Minister, I reported this question, whether it would be better to look for the December date, so as to combine these two ways of helping Jews, i.e. this phenomenon, which hides the opinion that at that time the organized aid of Poles was simply the help of the Polish Underground State and the Polish government in exile. Because, in other words, since December 1942, aid to the Jews has been included in the Polish state's agenda. There was no second such phenomenon in Europe, in the world, in order for the state to consider that this is the purpose of helping the Jews. We were unique in this respect, and the ignorance of this uniqueness creates just the kind of trouble that we are eating today, nolens volens. Hence the question whether the date is appropriate, since it can be by the enemies of Poland And it must also be said that we have used them to say, well, yes, they were Ulm, they were great heroes, but they are merely confirmation that such Poles were very few, and the rest of them were gassing together with the Germans or with the Nazis. ♪ I'm scared, I'm scared ♪ Although I would very much like this day to fill this educational gap, which is extremely important in the space of Poland and the world... [[The Vice Marshal signals that the speaking time is running out.]] Now, yes. ...In the space of Poland and the world As I say, I'm afraid that bad people, if they want it, they'll still turn this day into an anti-Polish holiday. It seems to me, however, that, of course, we should, in particular, be satisfied and, of course, I will vote in favour of setting this day up to be clear. And I'm gonna vote because I'm gonna vote As President Mateusz Szpytma Knows As much as I was able, I also helped with Markowa's case, being the chairman of the programme council for the construction of this museum, and this is a very, very close place for me on the map of Poland. Let us try to realize that by adopting today the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews, we are doing a lot of good, but at the same time I fear that neither this good will be properly understood by all, nor will the educational process change the authentic enemies of Poland and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, watch your time, because 20 minutes...]] Yeah, Senator Secretary's been a little distracted, but now we're gonna keep an eye on him. Minister Bobko. There you go. [[I'm a little awkward because the importance of this discussion is great, but I'd really like to ask you to follow the rules.]] [[Lectures are...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we are leaning on a very specific project, a project that will have political significance, which is a reference to the part of our national heritage that we should and can be proud of. Polish history, like the history of each country, has its strengths and weaknesses, the former are a cause for pride, the latter are a cause for shame. Today we are talking about this first dimension of our latest history, i.e. those people whose attitudes we can all be proud of. They have indeed been forgotten for many years. I remember Professor Gutman's letter, whose authority was invoked by Senator Żaryn, to Professor Bartoszewski, when the latter informed him that the Book of the Righteous Among the Nations would be translated into Polish. It was probably 2008, when Professor Gutman replied in this letter: Dear Władku, it is very good that you took such an initiative in Poland, just tell me why so late. It was 2008. In 2009 for the first time a book was published in the Polish language, including the Polish Righteous. Previously it was published in dozens of other languages, yes, in dozens of other languages. This is the Polish paradox. One can say, without questioning absolutely all the achievements of the 1990s, that half of the previous decade is the beginning of both symbolic and scientific increased efforts to commemorate those who behaved heroically, who might be a role model. Let's hope that they never have to, that they won't have to, that we won't have to, or that our children won't have to behave in such a heroic way that there won't be such challenges. So that this commemoration that we are discussing today is not superficial, but deep, we need a few things. Very reliable scientific research is needed so that it can always be described, documented, also interpreted, but according to scientific methodology, support any thesis that is expressed in the discussion. Well, I am generally opposed to talking about numbers, about how many Poles there were, how many other Poles there were, but this is what the audience expects of us, that is what our voters expect. Therefore, I am satisfied with what Mr Mateusz Szpytma was talking about today, which is about the 10 and 11 thousand people identified. However, I would like to say that within the framework of this programme, the program of "Index', which you yourself referred to, Mr President, has been identified about 8 000 450 cases of repression. 8,000 450 cases of repression of various kinds. When I talk about repression, I mean not just death for helping the Jews. I also mean sending to a concentration camp or prison, and other circumstances, e.g. acquisition of property. This is what you've worked out. And these repressions involved 3,000 800 people, it seems to be exactly 3,000 801 people. So this number of a few hundred people that you're calling for is a confirmation... I take it it it's verified in such a 100% methodical way? The important thing now is that scientific research goes further, so that they are not suspended somewhere, but that they go further, so that this scope of knowledge can be expanded, because only knowledge is able to help commemoration. Otherwise, we're going to look at this important thread of our history like a keyhole, and we should be looking at it as a whole. This holistic approach also requires what I asked before. Namely, we need certificates of our lawyers, certificates of all those survivors or their descendants who say: yes, indeed, our parents, grandparents have experienced support from Polish citizens of other origin, Polish citizens of non-Jewish origin. It is vital that such certificates are collected. And they can't be collected by random institutions. They must be collected under the patronage of the state. The State must take the patronage, its offices must take the patronage of the collection of such certificates, as it is also about the reliability of these certificates. Moreover, it is also about the possibility of using these certificates in the public debate. And in order to look at these things, not just through the keyhole, education is also necessary. I mean very precise knowledge, very specific education, namely education about co-existence for centuries of the great Polish element and great Jewish element on Polish lands. It is about commemorating or actually showing, especially our children, grandchildren, how these two elements crossed over centuries of our common history, and what a drama it was for our country to tear apart those ties that connected the Jewish and Poles throughout the centuries. It's extremely important to show this story together. It is also extremely important to show the Jewish heritage in Polish lands, because years do their job. It is also the duty of those public institutions who take care of and will take care of commemoration of those who were the Righteous. Finally, I will put an end to the amendment to this particular bill, because it mixes two orders in its preamble. And it's worth not to mix it up. And it is worth talking about Poles who helped Jews, as it is written in the article. 1, Article 2 of this bill, or it's worth talking about citizens. Speaking of citizens, then... Both the Jews who died and the Poles who helped them were citizens of a common state such as the Second Republic and its continuation, the Polish Underground State. So since at the beginning of the first sentence we are talking about Polish citizens, in the second part of this sentence we should talk about Polish citizens of Jewish origin, not about Jewish neighbours. Either we move at an ethnic level, or we move at a political level. It's not good to mix these two things up, 'cause bad things can come out of this. These things can really come out of the wrong stuff. Once again, the Second Republic had different origins. Polish origin, Ukrainian origin, Jewish origin. With that in mind, I'm proposing this amendment. I believe that, since we are talking about tribute to Polish citizens, the second part of the preamble also needs to be mentioned. about Polish citizens of Jewish origin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! I would like to begin by thanking the President for this initiative, which was taken in a very significant time, because, as far as I know, the draft law of the President was submitted to the Sejm on 11 October 2017. I'm sorry. And this is where we regret it. The work on this very important project did not take the time to accelerate it until January. I am talking about this because, of course, the discussion about this project is part of a more general discussion about the revised Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. Secondly, I would like to thank President Szpytma for explaining the sanctions concerning Poles helping Jews. The fact is... And here's a valuable statement from you. The occupation in Poland was completely incomparable with occupation, e.g. in some Western countries. There is such a famous joke that the English asked what if the Germans had succeeded in the invasion of Great Britain, they would have said: they would have come out of us because we wouldn't have sold them bread. And this shows a mental attitude and a misunderstanding of this drama that is happening in Polish lands. I would just like to remind you that the orders of the occupation authorities, and in particular the General Regulation of Governor Hans Frank of 15 October 1941, provided for the death penalty for any Pole who would give refuge to a Jew or help him in any other way. In practice, the range of punishments applied to those helping the Jews was wide. He covered a fine, confiscation of property, battery, imprisonment, sent to a concentration camp and death penalty. In view of the principle of collective responsibility applied by the occupiers, families of carers and sometimes entire local communities were the victims of repression. I'd like to remind you of a few situations like this. In the winter of the turn of 1942 and 1943 the German police conducted a wide-ranging repressive action in the region of Ciapielowa to intimidate the Polish population and discourage it from helping Jews. On 6 December 1942, 31 Poles were shot or burned alive in the villages of Old Warpieli and Rekówka, mainly from the families of Kowalski, Kosiorów, Obuchiewicz and Skoczylas. Two Jewish refugees were also killed. Twelve children under the age of 18 were murdered. The youngest victim of the massacre was 7 months old, about 70 years old. Two days later, in the nearby Świesielice, the police murdered Marianna Skwira, who was involved with her husband in helping Jewish refugees. The specific culmination of the action was the murder carried out around 11 January 1943 in the village of Zajączków. At the hands of the Germans, the widow Stanisława Wołowiec, her 4 daughters from 6 months to 12 years old, her brother-in-law Józef Jelonek and the priest Franciszek Zaborski died there. Crime was done in retaliation for helping Jewish refugees by the Volov family. The series of executions of the listed villagers from the vicinity of Ciepiełów was one of the biggest crimes committed by the Germans on Poles who helped Jews. Another example: at least 6 repressive actions aimed at Poles helping Jews carried out gendarmes from neighbouring Leipzig during this period. On 14 December 1942, in the village of Okół they murdered Franciszek Osojca, his wife Angela and their 2-year-old son Zdzisław. In December 1942 and January 1943, the Polish MPs carried out three repressive actions in the colonies. Fields near Solc nad Vistula, during which they murdered 10 people from the families of Kryczków, Krawczyk and Boryczyk and 2 Jews hidden in the grove of Francisek Parola. Another large-scale manhunt against Poles supporting Jews was also carried out in the vicinity of the Paulin village in the Sokołów district. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, would you mind a marshal... [[Calm down, please.]] [[She reads nicely.]] Thank you very much. The direct cause of the repressive action was the activity of a provocative agent who, pretending to be a fugitive from transport to a camp in Treblinka, got information about villagers helping Jews. 24 February 1943 Paulinów was surrounded by a strong criminal expedition from Ostrów Mazowiecka. As a result of the pacification 11 local Poles were murdered. Three escapees were also killed using their help. And there's at least a few more that could be called up. I would like to say that, unfortunately, I agree with Professor Żaryn and with those speakers who said that this problem was too little and too late to be covered by the action of documenting, commemorating and gathering evidence in the case. Hence, among others. it is one of the largest in the so-called. the policy of historical negligence of the Polish state after 1989 Against this background, two projects are exceptionally positive, which I would like to talk about right now. First of all, the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm families in Markowa. This is a really good museum. This spectacular murder, carried out throughout the whole family, is some symbol of this huge drama, which took place in Poland occupied by the Germans. But I would also like to mention the second initiative, which was created in Toruń, about the Chapel of Remembrance of the Righteous, located in the Temple of St. The Blessed Virgin Mary of the New Evangelization and St. John Paul II. It is a unique international monument created by the desire to commemorate Poles who risked their lives and their families saving Jews during World War II. In creating this chapel, and at its opening were representatives of the State of Israel and important personalities of our state life. A great deal of research work has been done. In the course of it, about 20,000 people, both Poles and Jews, gathered their statements and statements. About 1,000 500 photographs, over 11,000 pages of documents and many e-mails came in. Very many documents have never been published before and are not in any archives because they have been made available from family collections. The dimension of this action was just that it was a social action, that is, people asked, if they had such documents and knew about some facts, they were sending material about it. In addition, in Poland a query is conducted in various institutions, among others. at the Jewish Historical Institute in Warsaw. Work continues, new applications are accepted. In connection with the creation of a unique archive at the Memorial Chapel in Toruń, international centers of study on the Holocaust, including the Yad Vashem Institute from Jerusalem and the Holocaust Memorial Museum from the USA, expressed their interest in cooperation. The Chapel of Remembrance is in the church a vote of gratitude for St. John Paul II, is also a unique international vote of gratitude. That's all I'd like to say. I would also like to say that, of course, I am in full support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Invited guests! Dear Senators! That's a start. Judging by the phone calls I've been receiving from my friends from Israel and the United States since last week, we're being watched very closely because of what's going on with us in the Seym and the Senate, and any such frivolous statements are not very well received. It's worth remembering. I would like to give a brief overview of these matters on my own private side, as is the case with most Poles. Well, in the pre-war period, my grandparents ran a very large farm, reaching about 100 morga, and its functioning, to ensure high efficiency, required that the right professional people work together. Two Jewish families, Seideman and Aizenzang, cooperated with the grandparents' farm. Some of them were in the grain business, others... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. ...During other products. One thing has to be said: it all worked out fantastically, and for many it could be practically an example of the fact that for several hundred years the Polish people and the Jewish people lived in the territory of the former Republic of Poland and probably how nowhere else there were relations between them. And there's the war. What's going on? As long as these two families were able, they weren't poor there, but when things got bad, in 1941, they came for help. Our family has decided to hide them. This was in a good place because a few years before the war a farm had been purchased that had already fallen, but the buildings remained. There, what was needed was arranged, and 14 people made up of these two families were hiding there for 2.5 years. And now I'm gonna say what my mother always said. If someone is telling himself something, whether on the one hand or on the other hand, all they have to do is offer him one: 14 people a week to support and feed. For some time they had their resources, it was about six months, they were able to shop, but then everything remained to support their grandparents' farm. They all survived. What was their future? Well, two people died in the years 1944-1946, because, as it was said at that time, they became involved in politics. The rest scattered and some live in Warsaw at the moment It belongs to them, among others. one of the famous actors; these are already descendants Part of Argentina, part of it's in Israel. I have the pleasure of visiting them sometimes. And I'm going to tell you about something that tells you about the great normality that used to be, not the way we talk about it here today, as most people say... One of those stored young men married my mother's cousin. They live in Ścinawa until today. I don't know if it's changing that way. It's north of Wroclaw. It's a pretty big family. All this indicates that if there is a culture of intercourse, if there is a certain sensitivity between people, it really does not matter what origin, from which nation we are from, because we can live well among ourselves. I think this historical sequence should be preserved. That is why I am misreading all the statements that they opt for us to dig ditches between these two nations today. It's hard to find a town today. or even a large city where there would be no remnants of Jewish material history. They used to say, Jews said: dry bread, only in Poland. And that's what we need to remember when we're talking about things related to the difficult times of the Holocaust. And it is. I would very much like to support Mr. Marshal Borusewicz here. We should commemorate those who suffered the greatest sacrifice at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This statement by Senator Hare to weigh words very much is very close to me. A few hours ago, at the meeting of the Law and Justice Club, I talked about considering whether such resolutions should not be adopted by acclamation, and earlier preceded by a thorough and good discussion in committees. The point is that the wording of this meeting is very clear, so that what is so important today we are talking about the most heroic of heroic Poles -- it sounds as it should sound, i.e. as strongly as possible, and that it is not included in resolutions of such sentences which do not correspond to everyone, which are controversial. What we're probably going to accept, because I'm pretty sure it's 100%. The senators present today will support this resolution, it requires not a restriction of discussion, but a calm consideration... We make such important resolutions every now and then. The point is that we should think together and that the Senior Convention should take some suggestions on such matters, without changing the rules of procedure, of course, but understanding the importance of what is happening... I would first of all like to refer to the date, because this date was discussed today. We know that the date proposed in the presidential document was different from that proposed by the Sejm. There were also different dates in the discussion. I think there could be many other proposals for dates on which it would be worthy and appropriate to honor the Polish citizens who saved the Jews. But not only Polish citizens... Jews who were not Polish citizens could be rescued And so were they. Each solution has its own good and bad side, but it is good that we accept this law, good that already this year I don't doubt it. We will be more meaningful, more clear to remember that such a large group of Poles sacrificed everything to save their fellow citizens. We say that on March 24th, this is the date indicated by the Sejm It's the National Day of Life. I have a resolution of the Sejm of 27 August 2004 signed by Marshal Józef Oleksy. This is what we read in it. This day should become an opportunity for national reflection on the responsibility of the state authorities, society and the public for protecting and building respect for human life, especially for the smallest, the weakest, and the help of others. This day should also be a motive for social solidarity, an incentive for all actions to support and protect life. Would we find in this resolution a word that would be contrary to the proposed law in which we propose to honor, as I said, the most heroic, those who were the heroes of our country? Definitely not. This resolution also takes this in its entirety. I'm the person who once opted for National Day of Life to take place. I'm glad he showed up. For many years I have co-organized many different events related to this, this year the family congress will be devoted to the issues discussed here, and I think that those who have so far engaged on the National Day of Life will be willing and understanding to accept that this year in a special way we will honor Poles who, under dramatic circumstances of war, saved Jewish fellow citizens. So that I do not expect it to be the kind of party that was discussed in the discussion, i.e. that there may be pickets that will show the problem in such a way that it is not worthy. I don't expect that because I think we're adults, sensitive people. And there will certainly be no such situation from family organizations. So that I bowed my head to Poles who decided to save from people like Mrs. Sendlerowa, who clearly made this decision and did it on a huge scale, or from people like these people who didn't dare close the door when they were knocked on the door, and like those who went into the woods and brought food there because they were afraid to take these hidden people into their home. I'm bowing my head to all these people. And I know there were a very large number of them. I'm so glad we're gonna talk about this in public, that we're gonna honor them. It's very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u118	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! We're about to go to the committee meeting and we're going to consider the amendments that have been tabled because Senator Klich and Marshal Borusewicz have tabled the amendments. And we will probably talk about some aspects of these issues. But there's one thing I'd like to address here. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I understand the attitude of e.g. Senator Ryszka, who says: let's talk about what was good in Poles during World War II. I understand this aspect. Many other senators also touched on this: let us talk about good things and show good examples. And this is certainly important because people have to have positive examples, they have to have characters to refer to. But the stigma of evil is equally necessary, it is kind of the same action, i.e. Evil must simply be called evil. And we have some shortcomings and one aspect and the other. I mean. We didn't call it evil everywhere. And that's what we have... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: So what do we do?]] ...to be converted. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that both commemoration and research should be parallel and equivalent. Why? Maybe it'll convince you that when we talk, for example. about the attitudes of moneymakers, about those bad attitudes that were during the war, about these pogroms happening, about situations such as in Silk, we are talking about situations in which Polish citizens died. Jewish, but they were Polish citizens. And we have an obligation for these citizens to explain these matters. It's pregnant and on the Institute of National Remembrance, and on all of us. It's not just for us to remember, it's for us to remind, examine and settle these matters. There can be no such situation, ladies and gentlemen. And as we know from the research, there are cases like this. Perhaps there are still people who spent to the death of other people, other Polish citizens. That's what I'm paying attention to. Of course, it's not that saving... so that we don't separate, because so normally, in Christian terms, from an ethical point of view, it's just as bad to report on a Pole, a Jew and a Frenchman, that's the same evil. And the same equal good is saving the Pole, and the Jew, and the Frenchman. Since we pay so much attention to investigating unexplained murders, crimes committed in communist years at the moment, And it's very good that we're doing it, that IPN is doing it. We should also explain the crimes that took place during World War II on Polish citizens. And I'm paying attention to that because that's a distinction. Of course, we must never, under any circumstances, take responsibility for the Holocaust, which took place in a large part here, in the Polish lands, unfortunately, for our misfortune, due to geopolitical reasons. But when it comes to Polish citizens who have been spent or killed by other Polish citizens, we are obliged to explain such matters. May I remind you that In fact, many senators have mentioned this here. Since we have lived on the same earth for several hundred years, we cannot today share those sacrifices that were, in such a way that it is worth showing good Poles, and it is not equally important to remember the evil that has been done. That's all I'm paying attention to. [[The bad guys are the ones who remember.]] Who are you, Mr. Senator Bonkowski? [[The enemies of Poland.]] What kind of people are you talking about? I'm addressing you. Please stop talking about the people. That's what I'm talking about, so it doesn't have to be "oni." So that we do not talk about the Polish people, so that we remember that they were Poles, just as good Polish citizens like you or me who lived here before the war. And not any of our brothers, but our brothers, since... so said John Paul II, so remember this. [[Yes, I agree with you.]] Because it's important to you. [[They still want to punish.]] And please remember that we have such a duty, the Polish state is normally obliged to explain all cases of moneymaking in these small Polish villages. We have a duty to do this, and this... Fortunately, scientists are doing this for the time being, but I hope that the IPN will do so in parallel to commemorating these noble cases of saving Jews. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u120	Thank you very much. Senator Hare for the second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u121	Excuse me, just to fill in... After all these war events, 2 people from the family, namely the brother of the grandfather Vincenta Maciejewski and my mother's brother Adolf Maciejewski, became Righteous among the Nations of the World. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First ad vocem do ad vocem, i.e. to the statements of Marshal Borusewicz and then to Senator Żaryn about Mr Kobylanski. Indeed, Mr Kobylanski was not acquitted in the IPN proceedings, but no evidence was provided that he was involved in moneymaking, so this issue must be closed. However, there is no doubt that Mr Kobylanski is an extreme anti-Semite. I stress: extreme. A decent man should not shake hands with a racist and anti-Semitic, but the pilgrimages to this master continued. And in that sense, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was absolutely right. Now I'm getting back to the subject. Unfortunately, we are discussing the matter on this day, this date in such a situation rather than another. This law. everyone has already said it....has been in the Sejm since October. It's a simple bill. This is not a law that needs to be highly debated. Honoring heroes because that's the kind of people we're talking about here, it's a duty. Since the president brought such a bill in October, it should have come out of the Sejm in November and be in the Senate in December. Meanwhile, she was lying down. Why? We don't know that. Now there is a rapid acceleration, because we are so to say, in the fire of battle, and this is caused by us. Now you have to add an argument, show it outside, although it seems that it will make a small impression on the outside. And inside, in society, that we have heroes, and we need to remember them. What I'm trying to say is it's not like there's been no mention of these people for years. The fact that there are almost 7 thousand Polish trees in Yad Vashem is a thing commonly known in Poland. We've been proud of it many times. And I'm afraid that's what I'm feeling. I'm just saying it, and I'm gonna end it. But all of this is instrumental. It is of course a good thing that such a day will be established. But it's bad, absolutely bad, that it's going to happen in such an atmosphere and that it's not going to sound as bad as it should have. That's one thing. Second, March 24th, which means in a few days, there will be a ceremony. Mr President and Prime Minister will surely go to Markowa, perhaps to other places. Maybe there'll be other celebrations. Very good. But I would like to say that the credibility of these actions can only be confirmed if the same officials appear in Silk on July 10th. They haven't shown up yet. I remember what happened when Alexander Kwasniewski apologized in Jedwabne. I was there at the time. What a mess that was! The question was, in whose name, and why is he doing this? And then there was silence in this case. This government has been operating for over two years. There are celebrations in Silk every year, but no official shows up. [[That's not true.]] Right. [[Sir...]] That's right, that's right. [[What you're saying is not true.]] Then tell me who's showing up there. There you go. Tell me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] No, no, I'm sorry. Gentlemen, I'm not talking about the IPN. [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski:...I am a minister at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic.]] I'm not talking about you, no, no. [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: I was in Jedwabne...]] No, no, I'm talking about the premiere, I'm talking about the president, and there was a time when the president showed up. That's who I'm talking about. I am very sorry, but if you want to win the whole case concerning the situation of Poland under occupation, the matter of heroism of Poles, we must also show that we know about those events and condemn them. And it has to be the same people, it can't be that the President and the Prime Minister will be here. 'Cause I'm sure it will be, absolutely, 'and there, yes, will be a representative of the IPN or a representative of the President, with all due respect, of course, and not the President himself. And unfortunately, that raises this question, which I asked President Szpytma, about education. You said it was actually a little neglected, but the IPN is doing a lot on this. Well, what I'm saying is that in a program that's in schools right now, Silk is mentioned as an incident. And that's it, that's it. In fact, you don't know exactly who, what or how. Well, if we hide it in some way, the young generation will not be aware of it, and at some time there will be such an uproar as the one that is happening today. Someone's gonna say something, somebody's gonna tell their own story, and that's gonna happen to counter and so on, and so on. That is why I am very sorry, but in a situation where the Minister of Education speaks of the Kielce Pogrom or Jedwabne as he says... Well, all indications are that she doesn't have such a conviction that this subject has to be presented honestly. Finally, the President regretted here that the statements which the IPN sends are not further published. Well, that's sad, of course. It's sad, but you'd have to think about why. Well, President Szarek was kind to question the results of the research on Silk carried out by the IPN at his own time. Yeah, he said the Poles weren't there, that the Germans did it. Well, that went into the world, didn't it? It's gone into the world, and unfortunately, it's reduced the credibility of the IPN in these cases. Maybe not in others, but in these cases it reduced our credibility. So don't be surprised, then, that, as such statements appear, statements in these cases, agencies take this with reserve. To conclude: I will, of course, vote in favour of this bill, because there is no doubt that all those people who presented... Well, I'd call it extreme heroism, 'cause you know what it looked like back then. They need to be celebrated, they need to be reminded of, but I stress once again: balance is needed in these matters in order to maintain credibility. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u124	Thank you, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Aleksander Bobka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, unexpectedly, my voice will be different than I planned. Namely, it will be a polemic voice in relation to the last vote of Mr. Marshal Borowski. The starting point is good. I am glad that we agree that this bill makes sense and that we will vote for it together. So there's something we have in common, and it's very important. However, I would like to do so spontaneously in a polemic way, because of what I just heard. To respond to this symbolism of Silk. Symbolic is important. I share, Mr. Marshal, also this view that symbolism is important, symbolism referring to the presence of important people in places is very important. Showing, boasting heroism or rewarding heroism, you also need to That's what Senator Zdrojewska was talking about. To stigmatize or show evil. Yeah, well, about that, it's totally okay. Only in my opinion is it very important to maintain a certain balance, balance and, as a last resort, common sense. What's it like with Silk symbolism? Ladies and gentlemen, President Kwasniewski's words have gone into the world. It's not true that we forgot Silk, we're hiding it. Poles are not afraid of the truth. The truth works, I say it with all conviction. It's in our favor. We can afford it... Many times the presidents of our country, President Kwasniewski or President Kaczyński, showed, expressed that we are ready to admit what we are not proud of in our history. I was not so long ago for the second time in the museum of European history, in the House of European History in Brussels. I ask you, what is the icon in this House of European History in Brussels, in the part that speaks of World War II, the totalitarianism of World War II, what is the symbolism of Poland's presence in those events that took place in the 20th century? What's it gonna take for someone to walk into that house without knowing too much about the story? What's it gonna take? What will Poland associate with him? What is the symbolism about Poland's presence during World War II during the Holocaust? Will he find out anything about what we're talking about today, what some of you are talking about here... Perhaps some rightly confirm that in our market... on our territory, on the ground. Polish we talk a lot about it. But what does the world know? What will a European person entering the House of European History see? Well, he's gonna see a big sign. The icon of Poland's presence in this area is the words of President Kwasniewski about apologizing for Jedwabne. It is the symbolism of the presence of Poland in the history of Europe of apology for Silk. I'm in favour of apology. I think it's better to apologize three times than to forget to do it once. But did you... I don't know if I need to further develop it. I mean, for God's sake... Well, if our contribution to the history of Europe of the 20th century, to the fight against totalitarianism, from World War II to 1990... The emblem of Pope John Paul II can be found somewhere there, but it is the greatest... If he's doing a good job of digging, you can see that something like this is coming up, but it's the size of... And the main inscription associated with Poland is the words "sorry about Silke... I'm not gonna go any further. I'll leave that to you... I'll take that under advisement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I am briefly, in one sentence. You said the Ulm family was reported by a polish navy cop. No one has been identified, no one has identified the nationality of this police officer. Like you said about Mr. Kobylanski... As Professor Żaryn said here, the case was dropped because it wasn't proven. I don't know if I understand you correctly because you've made a pretty long argument... You've made such a calculation that 120,000, 80,000... maybe 40 grand couldn't be saved, and we have to apologize for that. I'm really sorry that so many people died. They shouldn't die. They were our fellow citizens, they lived in Poland. Well, what are we supposed to apologize for? That many of our brothers couldn't save us? Is that what we're supposed to be apologizing for? How many we've saved, how many we've managed to save... We can't apologize forever. We were in the occupied country. Same in Silk... ♪ If you don't ♪ ♪ If you don't 'Cause it's not quite proven. The Poles did it, and they did it under the supervision of the invaders. So that Poles themselves did not murder. Just like the moneymakers were, and different... This was also done under the barrels of German, German rifles. So we can't apologize forever. Well, we don't think the Second War caused it. The situation in Europe was not our fault. The Germans called her. The Germans were the perpetrators of everything that's been going on and on every side... Whether there were bad people on the Polish side or Ukrainian side or Jewish nationality... It wasn't their fault that that was the case. The Germans created this system. And we Poles cannot apologize forever. We were also victims, we had our Holocaust of Polish citizens. For there was no Israel. They were Polish citizens of the Jewish nationality. And three million died, but they were our citizens. The Poles also lost $3 million. Those holocausts were a few. The nation of Israel and the Polish nation were nations who were harmed. We weren't a nation of perpetrators, and we're always sorry for something.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u128	Thank you, Senator. But unfortunately, on the way to the replica, I answer you that either you were listening wrong or you didn't understand what I was saying. [[It wasn't a Polish policeman.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I still have five minutes.]] You're welcome, Senator... [[No, no, you don't.]] [[What do you mean, no?]] Borowski. [[I know Mr. Ryszka doesn't want to see me again...]] Yes, Senator Borowski has five minutes left. [[I'm gonna let you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u129	I would like to refer to what Senator Bobko said, because he raised a very important topic: that the role of Poland during a difficult, difficult period, during the occupation period is, in general, underestimated. We know that. And the subsequent accomplishments... We're talking here, for example. the overthrow of the Berlin Wall. In history, you can say, modern-day it all began with the overthrow of the Berlin Wall. The solidarity is somewhere in the back, so to speak, scrolling. Well, let's just think about it for a moment: and what we Poles have done in the consciousness of citizens of different countries, especially European ones, but also of the United States and others, from all over the world, to perpetuate such phenomena as "Solidarity," its role in a complete change of the political system in part of Europe? Well, if we look at the last few years, we will learn that the Round Table, which led to the first, not yet free, but partially free elections, then expanded to other countries, so-called. Socialist, socialist camp, the movement began in those countries, and there was also a change of system, and finally there was a change in Germany, the GDR and the overthrow of the Berlin Wall... Well, this Round Table is today by a significant part of the political forces And present here, in this Chamber, also treated as national treason. It's how. We're trying to convince the world? What do you do with Lech Wałęsa? Traitor, agent. If this is how we deal with our heroes, with events that we have led to and which have resulted in huge changes around us, then let's not be surprised that in the various Dutch, Belgian and other museums we will only have what the senator was talking about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u130	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit it was the first time I was dragged out into this podium, and it was by the voice of Marshal Borowski. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that only the words of the truth will fall out of this podium. The truth. And the truth is borne out, for example. documents, not whether or not someone has such an idea of the truth. We can't afford the Senate to lie. This is the first major case. [[But what was he lying about?]] Two. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very patiently to this discussion. Only from this side of the room on the occasion of such an important resolution... of such an important bill, I apologize, perhaps unambiguously, for the words of the paintsmiths, but only in one context. Well, how can you mess up everything... [[Exactly.]] ...even by pinning the award of merit, soaking it in the mud... Why? Well, why are you doing this? You're saying it's for the truth? Mr. President of the IPN, I have a favor to ask of you. Explain the truth about Silk. Do we really know the truth about Silke... You can still speak from this podium. [[We don't.]] ...or the exhumation wasn't left. Hold on, and we don't know the truth? Because the truth is the most important thing. We're not afraid of that truth. We're really not afraid of the truth. And as for the substance, I believe that the bill is very much needed. It's just a shame this discussion went in that direction. I have to say And I am, so to speak, a fresh parliamentarians, a fresh senator. I'm a little embarrassed about some of the voices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u132	Thank you, Senator. No more speakers came forward. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the senators: Żarin, Klich and Borusewicz. The discussion is closed... [[Voice from the Chamber: Still legislative proposals.]] A, legislative proposals. I'm not closing the discussion yet. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Borusewicz and Senator Klich. The discussion is closed. Is the government representative... [[And the IPN.]] Do the President's representative, government representative or IPN representative wish to comment on the proposals put forward in the discussion? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. I'm about to announce a half-hour break. After the break, there will be a vote on this bill. [[Is there an O.R.?]] You're welcome to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u133	Meeting of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the handling of requests made... [[Again.]] [[I can't hear you.]] [[What's going on?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Isn't it working? Maybe that's where it's gonna work. I'm gonna move, okay? [[You can, you can, you can, you can. Please again...]] Good. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of requests submitted to the Act establishing the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u134	Dismissed until 3:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 49 to 15 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u135	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 755 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] As your Marshal has just said, the Committee on Culture and Media met at a break in order to consider the proposal for a law without amendments, and in the event that a proposal for an amendment was rejected. The proposal to adopt the law without amendments did not obtain the required majority in committee. The committee therefore asks for amendment 1 and amendment 3 to be adopted with the self amendment. Amendment 2 was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u137	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Yes. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u138	Concerning Amendment 1. I suggested it, and the committee supported it in the article. 1 and 2 instead of the concept of Poles use the concept of Polish citizens, which is much wider. Because Jews were saved not only by ethnic Poles, but also by Belarusians, Ukrainians who were then Polish citizens. I therefore believe that this amendment is justified, all the more so because the Sejm applied this kind of concept, improving the law, but it did not do so in 3 other cases, i.e. it did not apply in the article. 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: Two and a title.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u139	Thank you very much. And the second applicant, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Art. 1 and Article 1 2 use terminology that has been accepted in literature for years, i.e. Poles saving Jews. This is the ethnic order we understand. However, in the preamble, two orders, ethnic order and political order, are mixed and therefore in my amendment I proposed to adopt this political order, i.e. to talk about Polish citizens, as it is said here, and therefore citizens of different origins, who rescued Polish citizens of Jewish origin, i.e. to introduce instead of the concept of Jewish neighbors the wording of Polish citizens of Jewish origin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u141	Thank you. Marshal Borusewicz has something to add, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u142	Yes, because I didn't have time to report my second amendment, which is much more important. Well, I think this bill will cause another wave of problems, another international problem. Therefore, I am giving you a raft of rescue and I propose to add to the recital about people who rescued Jewish neighbors from the Holocaust, etc., and so on, by remembering the millions of Jews murdered on occupied Polish lands. Because pointing out those and speaking of those who saved, it should be mentioned that millions of Jews were murdered on these occupied Polish lands. Otherwise, I'm really worried about the next international storm after the chaos related to the IPN Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u143	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. [[It's a formal application.]] [[What do you mean?]] A formal conclusion? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u144	I know, Mr. Marshal, what this should look like, but given the importance of the bill, given the moment when we decide on the bill, I would ask the Marshal to consider voting on the amendments first and then the law without amendments. [[You can't.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u145	Mr. Chairman, you said you knew what it all looked like. You know what the rules look like. [[Please.]] That would be against the rules. I can't do this. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 14 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation. We proceed with the second agenda: the law on bailiffs. The text of the Act is contained in print No 740 and the report of the committee In print No 740 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u146	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Are we going to proceed at the same time over 2 points? I'm asking because they're very similar. [[No.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present the report of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on the Law on Senators 740 and 740 A. The committees were sitting yesterday. Amendments were accepted as a result of the deliberations. The amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau and were taken over by the Senator, Chairman of Mammothov. The committees are asking for amendments. Amendment 1 states that in Article. In paragraph 19, paragraph 19 is replaced by the following: 1 After the words "financial deficiency," the words "depreciating funds subject to documentation for activities not intended for use" shall be added. Amendment 2... I will not read them all here because you have received a list of amendments. Of course, the amendments are included in the report. As regards the general information on the law on bailiffs, this is the law which was sent to the Senate and which is to replace the existing law of 29 August 1997 on bailiffs and executions in terms of the system and rules of service by the bailiff. Of course, it was also about fees and bailouts, although it would be more included in the second law. There were a lot of circumstances in favour of preparing a new bill. We, as the Legislative Commission, considered one of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which concerned the bailiffs' bill. There was a lot, a lot of talk at the time. I'm talking about all the people attending the committee's meeting. That there is a need for comprehensive solutions, and that is precisely the comprehensive solutions we have received. As I said, the bill on bailiffs and judicial executions is replaced by the bill on bailiffs and the law on judicial costs, which will be considered next. Of course, there were many indications in favour of the drafting of such a law, e.g. the need to restore confidence in the bailiff. As we well know, trust is this value, you can say, universal value, without which it is difficult to take anything. If we do not have any trust in such an important institution as the bailiff's institution, the bailiff... it is difficult to imagine such an institution's legitimacy in the law, such a power in society, in the public opinion, to restore this trust. Either there's trust or there's no trust. However, the series of various events that have taken place over recent years has caused confidence in the bailiff's institutions, the bailiff, to be shaken, to be challenged and, of course, our task is to restore this. Of course, our task is also to eliminate the various irregularities that have arisen, and the fact that irregularities have occurred indicates, among others. The document we have received is an impact assessment where it is concluded that the scale of irregularities in the area of disciplinary liability bailiffs has increased and it should be pointed out that during the 6-year period the number of requests for judicial bailiffs to be held liable has increased from 30 in 2010 to 102 in 2015. There's clearly an upward trend here. Of course, what we observed earlier about the bailiff's institution was such an attempt to move away from the civil bailiff's status, an attempt to bring him closer to the status of liberal professions, such as the profession of attorney, legal counsel. However, it is difficult to imagine such functioning in the bailiff's profession when the bailiff exercises public authority and carries out the tasks he receives from the court. Previously, there was a discussion about whether there should be a professional government here. Well, of course, the local government should be, but when it comes to official activity, it certainly shouldn't be left. At the committee meeting yesterday, Minister Patryk Jak was present at the moment, who spoke for a very long time about the axiological side of this law, about the legislative arrangements introduced there, and I will now briefly want to inform you about this. The committee was attended by a lobbyist, but as the lobbyist proposed an amendment to the bill on bail-out costs, I would like to inform myself more about the expectations he had when we moved on to discuss the law on costs. With regard to the purposes that the Act wants to implement, Just as the Minister presented yesterday This is, among other things, the case. liquidation of the so-called Chamber wholesalers. It's just that there's been a lot of these cases in the bailiff's warehouses over... Even about 10,000 cases could have had one warehouse. Now, according to the article. 10, which has been introduced in the law on bailiffs, 1 law firm may not have more than 5 000 cases. In general, the trend is that these are small law firms, where the bailiff will perform the tasks that the district court president has ordered him to do. These tasks will be carried out either directly by the bailiff or by the assessor in a situation where this assessor is being prepared to perform the job of bailiff. So, of course, it's going in that direction. As far as the bailout costs are concerned, these costs... We've received information. This was also the case in the current law on bailiffs and executions, that they once amounted to 15%. , another time at 8%. Currently, the same levy, the same amount, was introduced at 10% for execution by the bailiff. And that's what we have in the article. The 27th bill, which is talking about bail-out costs right now. [[You're discussing the second bill, aren't you?]] No, the first-- Ah, of course-- [[Two.]] ...it's until the second act. Yes. That's where... Yesterday we were sitting at a joint committee meeting in such a way that we were simultaneously discussing both laws. When it comes to making the bailiff more civil servant and less businessman or entrepreneur, that's what the article says. 33 and 34, and in particular Article 34 thereof. 33, where we find a record that says that the bailiff is not an entrepreneur within the meaning of the rules governing the taking up, pursuit and termination of business, that the bailiff cannot conduct business. So that we have here, expressis verbis, literally stated that it simply cannot conduct business. But also art. 34 somehow corresponds to this article that I just mentioned because he says that the bailiff can't take additional employment. So, of course, this is very important and very specific information. Of course, attention was also drawn to the active role of a police officer. Here is the example of the tractor, the neighbor's tractor. It was just a problem that the public was very interested in. Since a cop wasn't able to actively engage in an execution... And now we have, among other things. the entry in Chapter 12 of the Amending Regulation in Article. 761, which states that the enforcement authority may require the participants in the procedure to be heard. So there's going to be more activity during the execution. It is also very important what the Minister said, what we find in the law, and what concerns informing the debtor about what his rights are. Debtor... We're talking about a code of civil procedure that's being invoked... art. 7631 says that the bailiff instructs the parties and participants in proceedings in the case without a lawyer, legal adviser, patent attorney or attorney of the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland about the manner and timing of the appeal and if these persons are not present... So that a debtor who acts without a proxy, a defender, will not be left to himself. Of course, there will be restrictions on execution. The execution will be possible. And it should actually be, but it wasn't exactly formulated so far. Only of the things that are the property of the debtor. Inspections of chamber firms will be carried out, as referred to in Article. 168. Administrative supervision activities will be undertaken in the form of inter alia. control of bail-in firms. The bailiffs have been supervised. This supervision can be divided into 3 categories. The first one is judican supervision. This is surveillance. not over the bailiff, but over the actions that the bailiff does. This judican oversight is judicial supervision, you can say. In addition to this supervision of the bailiff's activities, i.e. judic supervision, administrative supervision is very strongly defined here. This is one of the things that goes on here. about what I have already mentioned, that is to say, control over the activities of the chamber firm. This administrative supervision This is, of course, the supervision exercised by the Minister of Justice, but also by the Presidents of the General Courts, it is the district court, the court in which the bailiff, the district court and, of course, the appeal court, as far as the next one is concerned, I would say, the handouts. There's still surveillance, which is very important, so internal. The corporation of bailiffs, that is, the bailiff government, carries out this supervision, has the authority to suspend the bailiff's disciplinary penalties, etc. So these are the three types of surveillance. This supervision was devoted to the entire chapter 9 of the Act. Of course, the Minister of Justice, which is also written here, will have the right to invoke, appeal... the institution of the assesaurs is also regulated. Something that hasn't been introduced so far. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 is referred to the appointment and dismissal of bailiffs. As regards the conditions to be met by the bailiff candidate, the obligation to complete higher legal studies in the Republic of Poland was introduced, which has not been the case so far. .. or foreign law studies. It hasn't happened so far. Well, it seems obvious that, as part of improving the quality of the bailiffs' work, such an obligation should be introduced. The committee was attended by Mr Buda, who was rapporteur at the parliamentary stage. The bill consists of 14 chapters. These chapters present very specific solutions. I would like to ask you to adopt a law with these amendments that I have tabled here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. Are there any questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[Senator Rulewski.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u148	Mr Senator rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, in support of the need for such a comprehensive study of this subject, you mentioned, among other things. An argument, I'd say, so hoovesy. It's a hoof that's already known for the ministry of justice... Well, someone ate something they shouldn't have, dressed up in the wrong panties they should have, and so we're doing a comprehensive reform. You also used the argument that someone had taken a tractor and that you are therefore making this transformation. Was that really reason enough to make such a revolution in the field of bailiff law and costs? And there are also announced changes in court costs. Now I'm going to have to ask more serious questions. Undoubtedly, this law takes one more sentence of the introduction of the bailiff system under the authority of the State, or, in fact, the Minister of Justice, as mentioned in the article. 1 (2): The Minister of Justice shall implement the State's policy on the tasks entrusted to the bailiffs. As we know, the state has different policies in terms of bail-out obligations or obligations implemented by the bailiff. Does this mean that once the bailiff will take more, and another time he won't enforce any debts at all? Well, that's the policy of the state sometimes. I'm particularly interested in the fact that, as I understand it... Well, there are three mistakes in that one sentence. State policy on the tasks entrusted to bailiffs? So who's buying these jobs? Will the legislator or the minister put these tasks on the table? Will the Minister, regardless of the bill, assign any tasks? And now I'm moving on to this philosophy of keeping bailiffs on a collar. In other words, it is debatable, but I would not like to comment on it, which assumes far-reaching consequences in the form of bailiffs being suspended even when they were accused, even if it was an involuntary offence, in the form of hanging them up and conducting them on costs and deadlines. I think it's a little dangerous. So far I have been able to choose a bailiff from all over the country, and from now on I will have to take one who will be assigned to the court of appeal, so there will be no such competition, there will not be what we are dealing with in Warsaw... Well, Mr President, even in the OSR, it is said that in Warsaw the bailiff earns on average a month... Some make 220 grand, and some make 400,000 on Wola. Well, then I'd like to get a bailiff from Bydgoszcz who makes 20 times less. Unfortunately, the minister, through this interference, through this government project, is taking away that right from me. I'm not talking about the fact that there may still be others... In other words, what led the committee when it took the solution that the bailiff would stick to the collar? Maybe I'll add another argument. There will also be restrictions on the law firm. Well, I kind of like them, not just the bailiffs, all the law firms I like, because if there's no bailiff, he's sick or suspended, the next bailiff can replace him. That's gonna be a problem. Those are technical issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u149	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The bailiff's got his jurisdiction, and he's on the district courthouse. As far as supervision of the bailiff is concerned, I have already mentioned that this is judic acid supervision. [[That's what I'm asking.]] With Judaic supervision over the bailiff If possible, by analogy, I will try to show it to you as with the supervision of the voivodship over local governments. Self-governments are free to conduct their activities, may adopt resolutions, but at a time when it starts to argue with procedures, i.e. with existing law, the voivode intervenes of course. And so it is when it comes to bailiffs. As long as the bailiff doesn't violate the laws, the rules and procedures in force, the court simply won't take care of him. That's what this is about when it comes to courts. The Court of First Instance shall deal with the activities of the Court of First It's not a bailiff, it's a bailiff's job. On the other hand, the latter supervision is administrative supervision. This is already the supervision of the Minister, the President of the District Court, the President of the District Court and the President of the Appeal Court. However, the Minister of Justice or the Presidents as administrative control authorities will not interfere when the procedure is not infringed. There is still, as I mentioned, supervision of the professional self-government, supervision of the chamber of bailiffs, this is internal supervision. And, of course, this supervision also applies to a situation where a bailiff would abuse procedures or something like that. So that the bailiff is free to do business. [[I'm sorry, I know I may have been asking too general questions, but they were also detailed...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u151	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u152	Mr President, with regard to the article. 18. He's the Minister of Justice. Not the court or even the bailiff's government suspends the bailiff if the bailiff is being prosecuted for an involuntary crime... [[On purpose, on purpose.]] Excuse me, I have here in the text "involuntary." Art. 18 point 1... point 2... [[There are two similar points.]] [[Voice from the room: Intentional.]] Yeah, point two... It's clearly written like that. I can show you. [[And in my print, there's a deliberate.]] No. It is also deliberate, Mr. Chairman... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, wilful... It's not obvious either, because it's said there's been a proceeding... [[It's in my mouth. 1 point 1?]] I'm talking about it, look at the print... [[Oh, so it's in the mouth. 2.]] For an involuntary crime prosecuted by the prosecution... [[Thank you. After printing, you know what's going on. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Isn't the minister's conduct going too far? It's not just a crime, it's an organization. He's putting up with it, like you said. ...well, actually, the clerkship of these offices is limited. Well, isn't this interference in the principle of bailiff self-government or the right of the bailiff to an economic initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u153	Mr. Senator, this is a very detailed question. I think the government representatives, the minister or the state who are with him, will explain it exactly. I don't want to speak out in general because it's exhausting, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u154	Are there any more questions? [[I've got a question for you. It's the last one.]] Oh, there you go. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u155	Yeah, those questions were... Mr. Marshal, I apologize to you and your colleagues... There'd be a lot of them, but I can see that... Why are those over the age of sixty - five discriminated against, denying them the ability to serve as bailiffs? What kind of argument is that? If a person of this age can drive a truck, operate a crane, then why is a bailiff at that age, performing services, well, let's say, from behind a desk, deprived of this possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u156	Mr. Senator, at the committee meeting, as I recall. The President of Mammoths is also here. This issue was not raised, it was simply accepted as an obvious fact. It was not asked about the issue of the lowest age, i.e. it being raised by two years, from 26 to 28 years old, nor was it asked about the decrease in age to sixty-five years old. So I'd have to come up with arguments for you right now. [[I'm not gonna be mean because I wasn't in this meeting...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I'm sure you've been watching on the Internet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u157	Good. As I understand it, you'll ask the Minister, Senator, right? Thank you, Senator rapporteur. There are no more questions. Thank you, gentlemen. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill presented? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u158	Dear Marshal, High Senate! We bring to you, to the High House, a comprehensive bill on bailiffs. This is the first such project since 1997, re-establishing the system, model law firms, way of business, relationships between the bailiff's capabilities and the state, ordering many cases and many pathologies that have grown around the execution activity of the state. High Senate! The most important elements of this presentation, to which I would like to convince the High Senate. The first case is bailiff status. The Act clearly states that the bailiff is a public officer because he uses a stamp, on behalf of the Republic of Poland he conducts executions and in private and public entities, and in private institutions. Plus there is That's what we call it. A public authority. And that's clear. As far as bailiff status is concerned, let us also stress that the bailiff... that the bailiff can't do business. We also define only a very narrow range of other powers, which may have a bailiff or other professions... i.e. the time that a bailiff can use for a job. We limit it practically exclusively to scientific work precisely because of the professionalization of this profession. And that was the first element. The second element is the model of the bailiff's law. According to the 1997 Act, what does the traditional model look like at the moment, I must stress that almost 50 times amended? Namely, one of the main elements of pathology, large merchant shops... Some statistics indicate that there are up to 130 commercial wholesalers whose turnover was over PLN 2 million. As the Senate knows, for some time, one bailiff took up to 10,000 cases. It's been 5,000 cases for some time, but given the fact that the old bill also provided that the bailiff should perform every activity personally... Well, as he has so many things and as it is commonly said It's simply impossible, physically impossible. And they suffer from the effectiveness and quality of executions. That's how it is today. In addition, because there are these huge bailiff wholesalers, small bailiffs, young, well-educated, who enter the market, often simply do not stand a chance, i.e. They can't find each other. So here's the situation: there are young bailiffs who have a few hundred cases, and big bailiffs who aren't even able to handle every case exactly, but they have a giant turn. And that causes a really big mess in the entire enforcement system in the state. That's how it is today. And what model do we propose? We offer a holistic, egalitarian model where every law firm... i.e. We'd like to see more law firms that have two and a half thousand cases so the law firm can have up to two and a half thousand cases. Not like it used to be, that 10,000 and then 5,000, just up to 2,500 cases. Why? Because our research shows that such firms are the most effective and best quality. This will give equal rules to everyone on the market, including young, well-educated lawyers. We'd like that to be the model of a law firm. Another element is the professionalization of the bailiff's profession. Today is about 30% of the bailiffs That's what we estimate. There is no legal education, and about 10% When we were making this bill, they didn't have a higher education. A little less now, but in general higher education... Today, as a rule, we will prefer what the President mentioned, namely legal education. In addition, we will end up serving assesors, which in the case of some law firms was a common practice, i.e. The bailiff generally didn't go anywhere, he sent an asessor everywhere. And how it ended, you have seen in many publications concerning executions, such as executions in Łódź. In addition, as part of the professionalization of the profession, we create special sections and departments in courts that will only deal with execution. We're going to have specialized judges who will only deal with this area. This is also the case in many countries around the world. We are convinced that this will improve the quality of execution. So this is the third element of the status, the professionalism of the profession, the model of the law firm. The fourth element is humanitarianism, so to speak. We want this profession to be humane, which is why as a rule we introduce recording of all executions conducted in the field. The bailiffs, carrying out executions in some apartment, were very often taking advantage of the situation, that people or family to whom executions were being executed did not know their rights, were poorly educated, did not know if they could appeal to whom they could appeal, what possibilities they had to prevent executions. In this bill we change it, that is, we say that each bailiff will be required to present a standardised form to the person to whom he is executing, and in this form it will be written, what rights this person has, will also be accurate information, to when and where he can appeal and from what. This is the second element. Now the third element of the so-called humanitarianization of this profession. There was a situation, Mr President, the senator mentioned it, a famous situation, probably with a tractor, which I think the policeman explained: well, I saw that something was wrong, but I couldn't do anything, because I have a duty to always stand by the bailiff's side, even as I see him breaking the law. That's why we're introducing a rule that allows a policeman to play an active role, that is to say, if a police officer sees something happening, he'll have the right to record this situation and immediately ask the court to stop the execution, as well as to include it in the protocol of what's going on there. In addition, as part of this humanitarianisation of professions as a rule, we state that executions cannot be carried out from other objects than the property of the debtor. There have been many scandalous cases that you've heard about. We also publish a catalogue of items that are not subject to execution, such basic use: washing machine, fridge, etc. So this is the fifth element of humanitarianism. The sixth element of the elimination of pathology. I've already mentioned the first case on the elimination of pathology, this is about the bailout wholesalers. The second issue of the elimination of pathology is the reduction of trade in debt. At the committee meeting, I spoke for a very long time, arguing with the lobbyists, what this is all about, and how this law is supposed to prevent it, how it is supposed to prevent the rolling of debts. Unfortunately, in Poland, High Senate, it is often so that if a person gets into problems in life, and so happens... It happens that there is a family and e.g. My husband gets my family into trouble, my wife doesn't know much about it, but the consequences are everyone's. But in a few years, this person wants to get out of this, gets a job or something. It turns out that, I don't know, there was a sick child, but it's already healthy, we've managed to get out of this disease, and this person wants to pay off the debt. And it turns out that this debt has grown to such a size that this person simply has no chance of getting back on his feet, because in Poland, unfortunately, the practice of rolling debts was widespread. It's called, I'm sorry for the colloquialism, but it's just that even though the creditor, the company that focused the claim, knows, is fully aware of the fact that nothing can be enforced by person X, he's making multiple applications to the bailiff to make the costs rise, grow, grow, grow, then sell it to someone else, he's repeatedly directing it to the bailiff, all the costs go up again, grow, grow, and for example. If someone borrowed $30,000, when they want to get back on their feet, they have $300,000 in debt. That's an example. We want to end this once and for all, and it will be used for this. Article 2 29 lips, perhaps. 5 of this law, which states that if the creditor wishes to apply to the debtor again, he will have to pay a final fee of PLN 150 in case of unsuccessful execution. So companies that buy debts in bulk to turn them around, if they want to do it, I don't know, a thousand times, they're gonna have to include these fees in the cost, they're gonna have to think about it. This practice has been dealt with in Europe a long time ago, and unfortunately we still had a problem in Poland. The liquidation of the old Commission... This is already an element related to wider amendments. We want auctions and generally all tortoise activities to be electronic. To make sure that all auctions are simply to be electronic, widely available, so that everyone can see on the Internet, what, how, who, etc. So that's the sixth element. Seventh element: control. Well, here it's going to change almost everything. Everything has to change, because unfortunately too much pathology has grown for many years. The bailiffs usually controlled the bailiffs, the bailiffs. And the quality of that could be seen by anyone. That is why we are introducing the supervision of the responsible President of the Court. That's the definition. So in his own area, every court president will be responsible for the bailiff's activities. While the powers of the President of the Court have so far been strictly limited to the submission of a disciplinary application, his powers will now increase significantly. He will have the opportunity to submit an application for expulsion, to withdraw from his duties, even to keep a service list. He'll feel like he's responsible for the executions on his turf. Because bailiffs actually execute judgments. Preventive control within these elements of control... preventative control of the Ministry of Justice will be possible. There will be mandatory checks of the law firms once every two years. It will be an obligation for the President of the Tax Office to participate in the audit. This is the answer to some of the press releases the High Senate probably heard about, that money was lost in the bailiff's offices, and it's very big. Here's another piece. That was seven, that's eight now. Transparency of fees for creditors and debtors. Today's point is that there's generally a lot of bail-outs, they're divided into different actions, little does the creditor understand, little understands the debtor, often there's such absurd situations in general, that when someone wants to pay the bailiff, then if they do it electronically, they'll pay 7%. But if he comes to the bailiff and pays him, he'll pay 15%. . And this sort of thing... No, 8% I'm sorry. And it is often the case that creditors have to hire additional companies to understand this enforcement system, what it is, how it is to be counted, etc. We have two basic bail bonds at the moment. One is 8%. ,the other is 15% . On average, as we figured out, the main fee is over 12%. That's why we've decided to stop and we're introducing one linear fee, 10%. It's just that. And we believe they'll all benefit from it. It will be easy to count and by the creditor, and by the debtor, without the help of specialist companies. As a result, the debtor will benefit from it, the more so that as a principle... We have already, fortunately, also the judgments of the courts in this regard, but as a rule we include in the Act And we want it to be that way. That VAT shall not be added to the basic fee paid by the debtor. What else is there to change? Here's another thing. We're not just talking about the debtor, we're not just thinking about the debtor, although we think it's a group that's been extremely unfairly treated, disproportionately treated. Oh, that's a better word. By bailiffs in general in the whole of the Third Republic, disproportionate to their actions, therefore we are very much helping them. But we also think about creditors, about economic turnover. We therefore promote effectiveness. And we say, if there's a bailiff's office... As a rule, the law firm can take two and a half thousand cases. But if some bailiff's firm exceeds 35% of its effectiveness, it could take more than 5,000 cases. Then there's the motivation to search for wealth and effective action. Well, there's a lot of changes, but I think these are the most important ones. I'm at your disposal, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u159	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative... [[I'm trying to take a seat because I'm too old...]] ...related to this item on the agenda. Is anybody checking in? Senator Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u160	Mr. Marshal, it's the only way I'm going on duty. There will be more questions. Because the Ministry of Justice has indeed prepared a very extensive work. It has to be admitted that in these 2 laws two, because the second one will be the big part of the work. Therefore, the first question will be how the bailiffs respond, as you and the rapporteur say that there will be discipline here, i.e. greater control of the state and not only that there will be a reduction in most fees, costs, more control, especially of the Minister, in terms of various sanctions, that there will be restrictions on freedom of activity, especially what I have already said... But let's start with a case we have in common, Minister. You know, during these two-year reigns of the PiS, the extortion of the bailout, its effectiveness has been reduced. Yes, if you'd like, I'll send you the right handwriting. She fell. That's right, the bailout's down from about 22%. up to 17%, but in particular, Minister And that's what we have in common. A maintenance service. Alimony charges are down. Besides, it's very low, as you know, because it's on the level... Well, it's different, that's from 12%. And the collection of alimony to the fund only takes place on a commercial basis, not on a judicial basis. And that would be one question. Do I ask a question in this law? Is there something good about women who have to keep their children away from their fathers, away from other obliged, mostly women, but also men? [[There's been a bill recently...]] No, no, no. We're talking about the bailiffs... Now, let me get to the details. Why did you enter yourself, Minister, such an imperial role in art. 1, according to which the Minister implements state policy on the tasks entrusted to bailiffs? What are these tasks? The tasks are in the law said by you. They are legally defined. It's supposed to be an independent person from you, from me, from the debtor. No, with the exception of those obligations The creditor, and you do the job here... And that's what you're consistently developing, for example. You're dedicating because of your age, which is because you're 65 years old, and many legal professions, I'd say, that's when it blooms. Well, a lot of old lawyers show exceptional qualities. Why, Minister, do you suspend the bailiffs' actions against which an involuntary crime has been committed? It's an art. 18. Let's add that also intentional crime...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u161	Thank you. [[Yeah... what?]] Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Let's divide this series of questions into parts, 'cause maybe somebody else in the courtroom is gonna want to ask. But of course I'll go back to the senator. You'll come forward, Senator. [[Well, that's what I thought.]] Good. I want to turn myself in, too. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u162	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Senate! As for Senator Rulewski's first question, how the bailiffs respond... I'll say very euphemistically: they're not happy. When we created this bill, the average earnings of the bailiff in Poland, which we had counted, according to data from the Ministry of Finance, amounted to 50,000. Medium. [[It's not enough, is it?]] A month. [[Isn't that enough? Is that what you're saying?]] That's 50,000 a month. [[How much?]] Fifty thousand a month, which is how easy it is to count, it's more than... well, it's more than one and a half times more than the president of the Supreme Court earns. Yes? And as far as I understand that the bailiff's activity is not an activity that involves some estimate and a bailiff should generally earn a little more than a beginner's lawyer, then... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[A little less than the executioner.]] I didn't hear you, Senator. I understand that, but it's also about maintaining the right proportions. Because let's remember that we're dealing with a professional group that's made these giant money often at the expense of the weakest people who've been so driven into debt spirals that they've never been able to get out of it. Today, the bailiffs' situation is worse than when we started working on this bill, because many activities, including ours, have led to the end of the Wild West. When I came to the Ministry of Justice and took charge of the bailiffs, the first week, I don't know... The applications for suspension or removal were really full. But suddenly it turned out that in the next year there was peace, there were not such great scandals as those connected with accidents in Łódź, with this unfortunate tractor, the 3 million that disappeared in Wrocław, etc. Suddenly it turns out that you can civilize it, just someone is supervising it. That's the answer to the first question. The senator's second question about effectiveness... [[No, the second was the question of these tasks, that you would determine the tasks of the bailiffs.]] No, the task of the bailiffs determines the bill and the task of the bailiffs determines... [[No...]] The task of the bailiffs is defined by the bill and let's remember... I mean, it's not even a bill that defines them, because the bailiff executes the sentence on behalf of the Republic of Poland. The bailiff always executes the court's decision, that's his job. As far as alimony is concerned, Mr. Senator, you have false data. E.g. Thanks to the changes made by the Ministry of Justice, I apologize, I will say it immodestly, we have to show it because this is the highest growth in the history of the Third Republic, thanks to the changes in the article. 209 of the Penal Code on child support has increased by 100%. [[But it's not about.]] No, that's absolutely about it. I think that's also the answer to the question... [[No.]] ...senator, because the senator was kind enough to mention that she fell. In addition, the bailiff, the independent person... there was such a dilemma that the bailiff would be an independent person. No, the bailiff is a state officer. I absolutely disagree with that. It has a stamp and acts on behalf of the Republic of Poland. He has all the power of the state, he receives it to enter someone's house in police assistance. Therefore, with such power and power, he must be held accountable and the state must watch over him, because this country gives him part of the realm of the empire. And if someone receives part of the realm of the empire from the state, it must necessarily be controlled, in a nutshell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u163	Okay, Minister, and if the bailiff made a mistake and took something that doesn't belong to the debtor, who answers? Does he answer or do you answer materially?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u164	It's a material answer, as I understand it, the state. [[Not a bailiff, right?]] However, the state enforces his personal responsibility from the bailiff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u165	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the requirements that the bailiff should meet. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 is the entry "Polish citizenship'. But in recent times, e.g. when it comes to judges, it is required to have only Polish citizenship. Why did you stay on this record so far? Because I understand that the point is that in the case of judges, i.e. state officials, this exclusive Polish citizenship in a sense is more connected with the way and with the state. Why is it different for bailiffs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u167	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u168	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! I understand that it is the word "only," because here is the record of "Polish citizenship," and in U.S.P. There's a record that he has... Here is a record of Polish citizenship, and in u.s.p. It has only Polish citizenship. Why is there a word there? I'll be honest with you, I'd have to... [[No, but what are you...]] Honestly? I am almost convinced that this is the date that was in force in the previous law. But if the senators wish, I will consult with the judges who are sitting here, and then I will answer your question comprehensively, because I would not want to mislead the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u169	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u170	You said, Minister, that inextricably... that I didn't want to brag about the increase in the efficiency of the maintenance system. I commend you, sir. Yes, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] But that doesn't mean that this is the result of the bailout system, i.e. The risks, of course, of the criteria you have introduced, which you are the author of. Yes? But we're talking about situations. And that's what I'm asking you when you have alimony, and the job for those who aren't paying is to get those alimony back from the bailiff. And I'm talking about that fitness. And this efficiency is decreasing, unfortunately. But I wouldn't want to go through with this, because I understand you'll still be a knight of the good cause, an ally of the good cause. But it's slowing down. I've got data that says she's falling. Well, now it's a little harder to get your alimony back because people are abroad and so on. But you haven't answered such simple questions, Minister. Why do you want to or even have to suspend a bailiff if an involuntary crime has been committed against him, or And maybe that's what I'm gonna say, worse about a deliberate crime? And why don't you like people who are over 65? I don't think it's because you're under 30, right? That, in my opinion, is discrimination. There's no reason to believe that a man who's 65 can't be a bailiff. And there is also the question of citizenship that Senator Czerwiński raised. Can a stateless person be... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...a bailiff if he had previously had Polish citizenship? Why this criterion, that the bailiff, who is chasing only in Poland, issues documents, European acts... i.e. take action in the field of prosecution on the basis of European documents... Why is there such a requirement that only Polish citizenship... But that's a less important question. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u171	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u172	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! The law contains a precise record of Polish citizenship. Therefore, to answer the senator's question, he must have Polish citizenship. [[Good.]] As far as age is concerned, it has indeed been discussed at the legislative stage. First of all, we were convinced by two arguments. The first argument is the caselaw cited in the explanatory memorandum to the Act. E.g. The Supreme Administrative Court in its judgment of 9 March 2011 pointed out that the age of 65 concerns both women and men and is a term of substantive law. The expiry of the term of substantive law shall have legal effect in the form of the expiry of rights or obligations of a material nature. There is therefore no possibility of extending the job of the bailiff. In general, here, in the explanatory memorandum, this is widely explained from the point of view of such purely substantive law. But there is another practical argument that emerged in the discussion. It means that the bailiff is doing his job in the field personally, so... well, he's just gotta be a good person. I understand that this is a less important argument, but such an argument also appeared that this also needs to be taken into account. Did the senator ask you anything else? Excuse me... [[Yes, art. 18... about the fact that for the initiation of an intentional or involuntary felony...]] Oh, yeah, actually... [[...you have to suspend the bailiff, and you don't know for how long.]] Dear Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, we are obliged to suspend the bailiff if he commits a deliberate crime. This is our duty, and this is our duty, which is already in the bill today. If the bailiff e.g. He's going to commit murder, it's our duty to suspend him until this case is resolved. But if he commits an involuntary crime, it's exactly the same. So that's like, uh... If the bailiff were involved in a traffic accident, he'd run over somebody. Sorry about the colloquialism. It would also be an obligation for us to suspend him until the case is cleared up. And this obligation is also described in today's wording of the law. [[Mr. Marshal, the question is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u173	You want to ask, don't you? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u174	First of all, it's a general form. You put it very hard, you rephrased my question... i.e. The answer to the question. Well, he killed... But wait, we're also talking about involuntary crimes. We're not talking about him passing or not passing, we're talking about the case being initiated. So you don't know who ran over yet. And, as you know, sometimes the victim passes by. I'm talking about sticking to this more unpleasant situation for me, a few people, and it may happen that this bailiff will follow, after others. How come the minister's urge to suspend this bailiff isn't known for how long? And yet this bailiff doesn't have the means to live anymore. Because, as stated in the next provision, the minister allows him to work in another professional activity. So we're leaving the bailiff and his family here without a means to live.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u175	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, it's not like that. Of course, I used an example here to illustrate what kind of problem we are dealing with. Well, crimes like the High Senate and, as you know, may be of different character. And if anyone's charged with intentional or involuntary crime, we have a duty to initiate disciplinary action. But, of course, the extent of his responsibility, in this case of criminal law, will be decided by the court, and the extent of his disciplinary responsibility will be decided by the Minister of Justice with the bailiff.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u176	Thank you. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u177	Minister, you mentioned an increase of 100 percent in maintenance executions. Could you give me the numbers? How in absolute numbers does this look like 100%? ? And after adopting an amendment to a law that poses a threat to a restriction or imprisonment... Were they initiated by the prosecutors... How many cases were initiated? And, eventually, how many convictions were there? I understand that when it comes to judgments, this law in this form has recently begun to work, but I am particularly interested in how much there was in this case about cases initiated by prosecutors. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Sorry, Mr. Marshal, if I may, I just want to ask... 209? Yes?]] Oh, persistent... For persistent evasion from... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: From the payment of alimony?]] ...from paying alimony.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u178	Mr. Marshal, Your Senate, Your Honor, if you'll allow the Marshal... I don't have that kind of data right now, I'd have to ask the D.A.'s office for it. But if you want a marshal, we'll answer in writing. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[I'm the one who would ask for a written answer. Good.]] Of course. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u179	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Since there isn't, I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to giving a written reply to Marshal Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senator Mammoths spoke on the record. I'm closing... A legislative amendment Mr. Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond? Is that a complex amendment? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the third item on the agenda: the bill on bail-out costs. The text of the Act is contained in print No 741, and the report of the Commission In print No 741 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee and then to present a proposal for a minority of committees. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I am pleased to present the report on the proceedings of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in print No 741 A, on the bill on bail-out costs contained in Senate printing No 741. The committees have decided to adopt the law without amendment. Senator Piotr Zientarski, who could not come today, tabled an amendment that had not been accepted, and submitted a request from a minority, let me read this request. In Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 28th paragraph 2 The minimum fee is PLN 200 and replaces the debtor with a rate of 5%. the value of the benefits thus enforced. The minimum fee is PLN 200. I am obliged, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The third sentence of the second sentence informs the senators in the report that a person who performs the tasks of the lobbyist was involved in the deliberations of the joint committee. This person is Mr Dariusz Sikora performing lobbying activities under the registration number MSWiA 00251. The lobbyist has tabled a proposal for an amendment to the committee. This proposal has not obtained the status of amendment. To get the status of the amendment, she would have to be taken over by a senator. It wasn't taken over. The proposal for an amendment was sent in writing, but was also drafted. It brings this into line with the Law on Judicial Costs in Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 give the following wording to point 3: where enforcement proceedings have been initiated before the expiry of 2 years after the enforcement title has become valid. Justification: The formation of the enforcement title does not have legal effect, as this is only the case once the enforcement has been enforced. It should be pointed out that the debtor is entitled to appeal measures which could consequently shorten the period referred to in Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 5 (3) of the Law, given that the debtor could benefit from such measures in order to distribute at the time of the entry into force of the legal document, such as the final enforcement title initiating enforcement proceedings. So much for the gentleman who volunteered for us as a lobbyist. As far as the law is concerned, its purpose is to regulate bail-in costs, their rules and procedures for dealing with those costs. This is regulated, as I said earlier, at the previous point, by a separate law. The new rule is here, among others. fixing the amount of minimum, maximum and fixed fees in a quota manner and not, as has been the case so far, in relation to the level of remuneration in the national economy. I have already mentioned the payment of enforcement fees for the bailiff. There's only 13% left. and 8%. There is one amount of 10%. There was also a discussion on a fee of 3% when the debtor made the fee earlier, before time, but no one had tabled an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much. Of course, I'm asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u181	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Please... [[Nobody wants to speak.]] Nobody came forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 748 and the report of the Commission In print No 748 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee... I don't see the minister in the courtroom, but I'm sure he'll be with you in a minute. In that case, let me present the bill and the work of the committee a little more comprehensively. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at its 100th meeting, the Commission considered the law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments in Senate Printing No 748 and recommended that the High House adopt this law without amendments. I would like to point out that the committee adopted this recommendation unanimously, so here we have the full support of all the senators of the Committee on Budget and Finance. It's a very wide regulation, one of the largest volumes we've ever dealt with, if not the largest. The MiFID2 directive itself and the MiFIR regulation related to this directive, the implementation of which is the present law, are more than 1300 sides of the regulation that the Sejm had to deal with. I would like to pay great tribute to the Members of the Committee on Public Finance, because the work on this regulation they have made has been very titanic. The subcommittee of this Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance has particular merit here, which, very quickly working, has made a high quality implementation of this directive into the Polish legal order, so good that our committee has not found the need to amend the law adopted by the Sejm. This regulation is one of the biggest regulatory changes in the history of the financial markets and affects the entire investment process carried out by all financial market participants, ranging from investment research to transaction execution. This directive, as demonstrated by the experience of the earlier functioning of the first MiFID Directive and the experience of the development of the financial market... And we are dealing with a very rapid and diverse development of the financial market and instruments offered to consumers, as well as businesses. The directive and, as a follow-up to it, our law, which implements it, aims to increase investor confidence, reduce financial market distortions, reduce the costs of market participants and increase the transparency of the financial market while ensuring equality of action for all participants, primarily by eliminating the information advantage of the party offering financial products. Our regulation introduces new categories of trading in financial instruments into the Polish system. Once this law is adopted, we will have a new trading platform for bonds and structured financial products, emission allowances and derivatives. This law also defines algorithmic trade and high-frequency algorithmic trading techniques. These are very modern instruments whose presence on our market is not yet particularly noticeable, but we expect that what is happening in the world, the development of these services and instruments that are offered in the world, will also occur in Poland. It is therefore good that we are adopting these regulations at this stage of the development of our domestic market. Thus, as I mentioned, the definition of algorithmic trade is being introduced, the definition of high-frequency algorithmic trading techniques, the definition of direct electronic access in the execution of the transaction, and perhaps the most important thing for our entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is an alternative trading system for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is designed to facilitate access to the capital acquired, sought by small and medium-sized enterprises. As I mentioned at the outset, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance unanimously recommends that the High House adopt this law without amendments, while thanking the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance for preparing such good regulation. On this point I could actually conclude my speech, but I would also like to mention, for the purposes of the protocol, that representatives of all stakeholder chambers attended the committee meeting, were representatives of the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets Management Board, the Securities Exchange, the Chamber of Brokerage Houses, the Association of Polish Banks, the Goods Exchange of Energy, the Polish Insurance Chamber, as well as representatives of public authorities dealing with the regulation of this market, notably the Financial Supervision Authority, the Financial Ombudsman's Office and the Energy Regulatory Office. Thus, market supervisors interested in regulating those financial instruments covered by the Act were present at the meeting, there were representatives of all stakeholders' chambers, entities active in the financial services market. Proposals for amendments to this law have been tabled. These amendments were tabled by the Chamber of Brokerage Houses and the Financial Supervision Commission. After discussions at the committee meeting and after the presentation of the positions by the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission, the representatives of the applicants withdrew from the proposed amendments and considered them unnecessary. This enabled the committee to adopt the report very smoothly, in which we recommend the adoption of a law without amendments. It's exhausting my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u183	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely ask the rapporteurs questions, but in this case... I'm sure there'll be an answer, maybe this way. [[I hope so.]] Would you please explain to me if you... Because you were talking to the senator about high technology entering the stock market and trading in financial instruments. And does this law in any way affect cryptovalut? Famous cryptovalut, bitcoin, etc., which... Well, they're popular in certain environments. Will this issue somehow be governed by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u185	Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, I did not pay attention to this, but we were not particularly concerned at the committee meeting. Yes, this applies to the need to inform about the risks that arise in the case of the investor making such a transaction. Each transaction must now be preceded by a market knowledge survey, knowledge of financial services by the purchaser of these financial instruments. Thus, it is only after the survey that it is possible to enter into the transaction and determine the risk profile of the buyer, the investor. Only establishing the profile of the buyer, the investor allows a reliable offer of different types of instruments. Thus, for those who are not aware of the risks associated with financial instruments, the offer of products which are incomprehensible to them will be linked to the disclosure of the full risk. So this regulation also applies to cryptovalut. That was the question. Mainly in the information section. As I said, the law affects transparency, security and confidence in the financial market precisely because there are important regulations to protect investors, but also, as I mentioned earlier, regulations that make it easier for issuers to sell, especially issues related to facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises to raise capital...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u186	You're asking Senator Kilian a question. There you go. [[No.]] You didn't volunteer? Are there other questions? [[You've arrived, Minister.]] Thank you, Senator, for the report. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. We have Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 752, and the committee report In print No 752 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee and then to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Joint Committees on the Law amending the Hunting Law and certain other laws. Senator print No 752, seym prints No 1024 and 2234. The amendment of the law implements the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014, increasing the rights of property owners which have so far been badly protected. The Constitutional Tribunal postponed the execution of the judgment for a maximum period of time, i.e. by 18 months, which passed on 21 January 2016. This judgment was an incentive for those opposing hunting to apply to administrative courts to exclude their property from the hunting circuit. Each application shall be dealt with by the court in favour of the applicant. Fortunately, no court has repealed the entire resolution of the voivodship sejm, the courts have merely excluded individual properties or repealed individual hunting circuits. As a result, the bill could not be delayed. With regard to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the amendment provides for: the possibility for owners of real estate to submit observations and opinions during the process of creating the division of voivodship into hunting circuits, which will be considered by the Marshal's team forming the draft division and, if they are not taken into account, also by the Sejm of voivodship; the possibility of obtaining compensation if the property is included in the hunting circuit and where this will significantly restrict or prevent the use of it on existing terms; the possibility of making a declaration of prohibition of hunting on the property in question; the obligation of the tenant or the manager of the hunting district to notify the mound, the mayor, the president of the city and the public of the planned collective hunting; the obligation of the mayor, the President of the city to make public information about the time and place of execution of the collective hunting; and the last, the obligation to provide information on individual hunting at the request of the person concerned. The amendment strengthens the supervision of the Minister of the Environment over the Polish Łowiecki Union by stating: the approval of the statute of the Polish Łowiecki Union by the Minister of the Environment; the appointment of a national hunter by the Minister of the Environment from among 3 candidates designated by the Supreme Council of Łowiecki; the withdrawal of the hunter's national by the Minister of the Environment after consulting the opinion of the Supreme Council of Łowiecka; the appointment of members of the Management Board of the General Board of PZŁ by the Minister of Environment at the request of the National Hunting Minister; the annual submission of information by the Polish Łowiecki Association to the Minister of the Environment from the execution of tasks resulting from the article during the previous hunting year. 34 (1) (12) and supplementing it at the request of the Minister for the Environment if he raises objections. In addition, the possibility was recorded: request by the Minister of the Environment from the General Board of PZŁ the resolutions of the National Meeting of Delegates of PZŁ, the Supreme Council of Łowiecka and the General Board of PZŁ and the relevant explanations; request to the court to impose a fine on the Polish Union of Łowiecki or to the Polish Union of Łowiecki for the removal of irregularities if the activities of these bodies are in breach of the law or statute; give notice; request to the court to repeal the resolution or obligation of the above bodies to remedy irregularities. In addition, the bodies of the Polish Łowicki Union, as well as the board of the hunting circle or audit committee persons born before 1 August 1972 who were employees, officers or soldiers of the State Security Authorities during the period from 22 July 1944 to 31 July 1990 may not enter the territory of persons born before 1 August 1972. The amendment strengthens the rights of the Polish farmer. First, a process is in place to estimate the damage caused by game hunting in crops and agricultural fetuses by a three-person committee consisting of the injured farmer, the tenant's representative or the manager of the hunting circuit and, as having a major role, the representative of the municipality. Secondly, hunting wheels will no longer decide the amount of compensation themselves. Thirdly, it is possible to appeal against the decision on the amount of compensation calculated to the competent forward or the director of State Forests in the circuits managed by the State Forest Farm and the possibility to bring an action before the court. Further issues The Polish Association of Hunters takes over the obligations of the hunting circle for compensation in the event of the liquidation of the circle when its assets are not sufficient to cover these obligations and in case of failure to pay compensation by the circle; the participation of the representative of the competent agricultural chamber in the livestock inventory; the entry of a representative of the competent agricultural chamber in the composition of the advisory and advisory team of the Marshal of the voivodship in the preparation of a draft resolution on the division of the voivodeship into hunting circuits; the possibility for the agricultural chamber to terminate the agreement on the lease of the hunting circuit; and the last, establishing priority in the admission to the hunting circle resident in the area of the leased hunting circuit. I would like to point out that the committees have been sitting twice, they have met twice. The first meeting took place on 7 March. The information of the Seym Rapporteur, Anna Paluch, was then heard. The discussion concerned work on the bill that took place in the Sejm. Next, representatives of the social side criticized the provisions on participation in the hunting of young people up to the age of 18, the ban on training dogs and falcons on live animals, the rules in force in the ZŁ and punishment for hindering hunting. Three amendments were tabled at the end of the meeting, but the committee's deliberations were closed on that date without voting on the amendments tabled. The committees then met for the second time on 13 March. Following the discussion, which mainly involved the social side, there were votes on the amendments. These amendments were tabled during the committee's deliberations 8 and 7 amendments were approved by the committee and 1 did not go through the vote and is treated as a minority request. I therefore request and ask the High House to adopt the law in the version proposed by 2 joint committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u188	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in... Senator Spider reporting. There you go. [[And the minority's motion?]] [[It's still a minority motion.]] The senator has already filed a minority motion. [[I've already reported it, yes.]] Now it's time to ask questions. Senator Spider is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have two questions. The first concerns this minority proposal, this amendment. What's it sound like? Because you didn't introduce her. That's the first question. And another one. I think that, like me, a little bit of e-mails came to your senators with various questions about this bill. No, among others. There was a question there. Let's say there's forest cultivation, there's woods in the hunting circuit, and there's, say, a young man planted or something. If this is destroyed, will it be compensated or not? These questions have been repeated in many cases. If in these hunting circuits... It was about securing these forest crops. Is there any possibility of funding, support, assistance? Such questions were asked by the locals and foresters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u190	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, the content of the amendment, which is treated as a minority request, is as follows: in Article. 1 in point 19, in Article. 42aa, the following point 13 is added: "intentionally obstructing or preventing the pursuit of collective hunting, except for activities related to forest, agricultural or fishing management'. Maybe I'll give you a reason right away. This amendment restores the right to punish people deliberately hindering hunting. The State, imposing an obligation on hunters to combat African fever and manage wild game populations, does not ensure the safety of hunting. The activities of pseudoecologists and hunter opponents, including deliberate blocking and disturbing of hunting, have recently led to very dangerous situations. Those who committed these acts remained unpunished, putting themselves and hunters at risk. There is no restriction on civil liberties or access to forests and meadows for the public who want to enjoy the benefits of being in the wild. So much for justification. As for the compensation for the young man, for the forest 'Cause that's the way it's supposed to be. I'm the one who doesn't remember that at the committee meeting. I think it's the State Forests that should... But at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly, we didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u192	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question about the very construction of this bill. Because it's a parliamentary initiative, right? [[Government.]] Government? And we won't be able to ask questions, Mr. Marshal? [[Government, right?]] Please? [[Government.]] Well, that's short, because I'm gonna ask the Minister that question. Did you consider such a matter at the committee meeting... Because it is such a construction: this chief hunter and the national board of the Polish Hunting Union are appointed by the Minister, according to the procedure established here. Did you ask the question why it is so that the Minister appoints these bodies? Because this is the only isolated situation in Poland, I do not know whether or not in Europe, that the head of the NGO is appointed by the Minister. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u194	Is that the end of the question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u195	I can answer that game, well-being is the property of the State Treasury. And since it's been the way the senator says it so far and suggests that the minister had nothing to do with it and the minister also had no control over the economy, I think, mainly financial... Now, by calling... I think that was the expectations and the hunters, and the society, that the not-so-favorable power at the highest level would simply be otherwise appointed. And I think that might be the explanation. But it's best if you tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u196	Do you want to ask? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u197	I'm going to ask him, of course, maybe I shouldn't have asked the senator about it, but since the senator said, I understand, out of conviction... [[Yes.]] So I understand that when the union representatives at the general assembly chose him in the right way, they chose the wrong man, and now, as the senator said, the one that everyone expects will be chosen, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u198	Which they expect, and of course the Minister consults this man with the General Council. He doesn't appoint his own, he just has to have, like, acceptance of the Supreme Council... [[No, no...]] ...Polish Hunting Union. [[No, he's calling himself out of three candidates...]] But in consultation with the council, That's what it says in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u199	You're asking Senator Kaminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator, I don't know if he'll be able to give me an answer, whether it was discussed at the committee meeting... [[Get in the microphone.]] [[Louder, louder.]] ...or was that discussed at the committee meeting. The law introduces the principle of setting boundaries of hunting circuits, which will be approved by the sejm of the voivodship. My question concerns the situation of the hunting circuit, which is in e.g. 2 different voivodships. Does anything change at this point? Is it even acceptable for a hunting region whose area will be in one and the other voivodship? And then who's gonna approve his boundaries? Is there a possibility of such a hunting circuit?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u201	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u202	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I will not answer this question precisely because we did not mention such details at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u203	You're asking Senator Pup a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u204	Senator rapporteur, I have such a request to the senator that you be kind enough to elaborate on what tasks the Polish Hunting Union does in general, as represented by the State Treasury in general... [[I don't understand.]] ...leading the hunting economy... [[Voice from the O.R.: One more time.]] What tasks does the Polish Hunting Union perform? How does he perform the tasks imposed by the State Treasury on the Polish Hunting Union? If you would just say a few words about the functioning of the Polish hunting model... [[Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński: Please...)]] 'Cause I think that's what we talked about at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the room: Unknown.]] [[What are the rules?]] It is known that the Polish Hunting Union performs the tasks of the State Treasury. Yes? And now the problem is whether this law, for example. assist the hunter in carrying out their duties, or make it more difficult for them to do so. What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u205	I can tell you what we talked about at the committee meeting. This law will certainly help, because there will finally be real control over the activities of the union, primarily over financial activities. Because there's always been a problem of compensation, that's what was missing, and then the farmers who came to them demanded that the state come into the sucursor and support it. Now, with more supervision, with more scrutiny of the conduct of the Polish Hunting Union, it will be known how this budget closes. If it really turns out that these hunting damages will be very high, they will exceed the possibilities of the Polish association and hunting circles, then, I think, appropriate and appropriate intervention by the minister who will help. At least that was the declaration on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u206	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, because the committee has introduced an amendment allowing young people to participate 'Cause it's hard to say they're kids, it's more like young people. Since I was 15 in hunting, I have a question about that. Was there any wider discussion on this at the committee meeting? I'm asking because I wasn't in the meeting. And do you, for example? analyzes such an issue that, if it were consistent with the application of such prohibitions, for example. It should also be prohibited for young people to participate in fishing, because, well, the cruelty involved, even if some anglers behave in fishing, can also leave some traumatic traces in the young man's mind? Shouldn't this ban be wider then? And my second question. We have a constitutional record that says that parents have the right to raise their children according to their beliefs and views. Does this limitation of children's participation in hunting not conflict with this record? Did such a thread arise at all during the discussion during the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u208	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u209	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, as far as age is concerned, it was me who wrote this amendment. The discussion was, i.e. mainly I argued that throughout Europe, children's participation in hunting has been treated as normal since that age. There are countries where it is even lower age, in Norway it is 14 years old, for example. in Finland, the age is not determined, it is enough that the child will pass the hunting test and can hunt. I believe that the introduction of children from the age of 15 young people, I would call them youth In hunting is much more perfect and necessary, effectively introducing into it the good that surrounds us, namely in contact with nature, love for this nature, love for animals. I think it's much easier to shape many positive qualities in such a young man. Because if we don't, ladies and gentlemen, they usually go the other way, so they sit in front of the computer, they sit on the Internet, and they can only look at beautiful things there. And even better entertainment is buying games for children. You know what's in these games, what they rely on. So that I think the 15-year limit is optimal here. If Mr. Senator... The second question concerned the comparison with fishing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u210	I may, Mr. Senator, quote the article. 48... [[Oh, I know.]] ...pt. 1 Constitution: The parents have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs. This upbringing should take into account the child's maturity and the freedom of conscience and religion and his conviction. And here's the question: doesn't the statutory limitation of children's participation at all up to 18 years of age in hunting fall within the scope of this constitutional standard? Because I don't know, I'm just asking you a question. And was there any discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u211	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u212	On this subject there was only my statement, which then was also supported, that of course, we are entering into conflict with the constitution, giving parents the right to decide for themselves how to raise a child and what values to teach him. Of course, it interferes with the constitutional record.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u213	The question is Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u214	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, the one topic I was going to raise was this entry for 18 years. Although I'd be willing to go even further... Because in Finland, children have been hunting since they were 14 years old, not even just participating. And I also think that here the decision should be yours, not yours. Well, I'm surprised the Sejm came with such a record regarding the age of 18, while for example. In slaughterhouses as students, they have been able to work for 16 years... [[Voice from the room: 16, yes.]] So what's the consequence? Right? I was gonna ask that question, but Senator Jackowski. He did a little work for me. I have another question. These plots, which are less than 100 m away, now it will be 150 m... Well, with us in the mountains, in Małopolska, agricultural parcels are almost over the fence. I have a deer and a wild boar around my house every day. What are we gonna do about it? How will this damage be calculated? Will they be estimated or not? What solution is foreseen in this new law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u215	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Originally it was planned that this minimum distance of shot from the buildings would be not 150, but 250 m. It's already been completely up to date, it would be that two-thirds of our electoral districts... excuse me, hunting circuits, there's still time for the election... would be unattainable. And I ask you, where's the hunting economy and, above all, where's the fight against African fever? Well, here, however, reason prevailed and this limit was lowered, this distance of up to 150 m. That area over there is... [[Raised from 100 to 150 m.]] Please? It was 100 m, it was made 150 m, it's such a useful compromise. Where there's an even denser building, you're gonna have to... I don't know. I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u217	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Is this the issue of subsidies If the wheel is not sufficient, then there will be State Treasury subsidies Is this your dream, or did you discuss it at the committee meeting? And the second question about... My colleagues have been digging into this distance. Why 150, 250, not 500, not 2,000? Where does the number come from? Maybe you guys talked about it. 150? Because I understand that your conclusion is to make it 150.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u219	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u220	I answer the first question that the senator was gracious to ask, very kind and sympathetic. This is, of course, my dream. This is my dream, and I believe that it will come true, that it is real, because this was declared by a very serious minister. About the distance... The second question was about distance. Yes? It was 100 m, but this distance was widely attacked, criticized because the chords were often supposed to bump into the windows of the apartments, which means the hunters kept the merger in the wrong direction, which they should, perhaps, were... So they wanted to increase this distance to 250 m so that at least the shotgun wouldn't come anymore, because from the bullet gun it goes for a few kilometers. But then, as I said, there was a conflict, because at least 2/3, and certainly half of the hunting circuits would be out of control, because these areas would be shut down... So it's centered, it's proposed 150 meters. I think it's a good compromise, I don't think we can come up with a better one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u221	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I still have a question about falcons, because there's information that preventing training, I don't know what it's called, because I don't know it, but it's with the use of birds that perform an important protective function when it comes to airports... What does this case look like in the light of this bill? Is there a danger to air traffic if it is not possible that these tasks, the way in which this system, which has been so far, will still be present? I ignore Okęcie, which has special solutions, I think of many other airports which, as far as I know, benefit from this kind of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u223	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of falcons and hunting dogs was considered together, that is as one amendment... Of course, in the Seym there was rejected training of dogs on so-called living organisms. I think... It's also about restoring... It's about restoring... Both falconry and dogs have been active in our hunting for hundreds of years and things have worked out well. And besides, as your senator pointed out, falcons are used not only for hunting but also for airport security and fear. I'll talk about it later when I speak. They're used as if they're multi-directional. Therefore, I believe that both dogs and falcons should remain here. It's supposed to be the way it's been so far. If we do not vote on the amendment and this type of activity is prohibited, there will be no dogs that are currently hunting, there will also be no falcons, and according to the Act... There's a record that hunting without dogs shouldn't actually take place because there's no way to find the gunshot. Right? Then this hunt will become really gruesome, not ethical, not what it should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u225	You're asking Senator Mioduszewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. As far as I know, there are no age restrictions for hunters. Did the committee's meeting mention the need for periodic examinations, inter alia. Eye exams and psychophysical tests? [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u227	I'm answering. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's what I was talking about. There was even a request with a question submitted by the group... I think they were ecologists who had concerns about the fact that with age, the functioning of the organism and the hunter, who would cross the line of some age, was getting worse. They didn't give me that line. It can become really dangerous. But there is no such requirement in the regulations. [[May I? I'll ask you a second question, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u228	We'll sign you up. You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. I'm talking about a distance of 150 meters. As we know, there have been many cases that have been mentioned and that have been very loud in the media, such that the bullet hit an accidental cyclist or fell into someone's house. And I have a question. Is 150 m enough? I don't know if a hunter's gun has that kind of range to... [[Four ……]] Four kilometers. So that's 150 meters... my friends are fine with me. [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's quite...]] But... [[So, is the senator giving up on the question?]] My colleagues have already answered, so I won't bother your senator. [[I'll answer it.]] Second question. Mr. Senator, don't you think a man after 70 or 60 has more limitations than... His eyesight is weaker, and his health isn't the same anymore. However, should it not be examined by an ophthalmologist? We left it as if the care of Our Lady, we assumed nothing would happen, and the hunter would be fit for the rest of his life and a day longer. I'm saying that because there's no record of such research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u230	Senator, as far as visual weakness is concerned, I confirm, and the rest will be referred to by the senator. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[May I?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u231	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'll respond. The answer to the first question is very simple. The bullet's coming. - Depends on how it's fired. Even 8 km. It's coming closer to 800 meters. According to the hunting records, they are now to be reported. Until now, I'll tell you the truth, it's been different, but now they're supposed to be reported. Full responsibility for organizing the hunt and setting the so-called. The line of fire takes the hunter who leads the hunt, as well as the hunters themselves. When it comes to hunting a fat animal, or a bullet gun, no hunter shoots without seeing where the bullet goes if it doesn't hit the animal. Right? There must always be some kind of natural curtain. And here the responsibility lies directly with the hunters. About the other thing about vitality, I think... I agree with the senator. I don't know what age limit should be. Hunters are different. I was talking to a lady in the Senate today who was in Belgium for some help, and there was a 90-year-old managing girl who was doing a great job, and the younger one couldn't keep up with her. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to make an amendment here... [[Yes, sir, we will.]] ...that a hunter who, suppose, would reach the age of 75 so that he could own and use a weapon must undergo a mandatory basic study, which is to say, eyesight, hearing... So that I agree fully.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u232	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u233	Mr. Senator, can you tell me if this amendment that you're proposing is about... I mean, the minority request you're reporting about punishing for interfering with hunting, preventing hunting... Is that an amendment that... Are you trying to enter a record that was before, or is this supposed to be a new record in hunting law, something that wasn't? That's my first question. Two. Isn't this distance of 150 or 250 m related to shotguns, or smooth-bore weapons, the range of which is much smaller in general? Isn't that some kind of... Because there's an ounce. Because breneka... As you say, the shots will reach 800 m, but effective shots are much closer. And breneka... Well, I don't know, it's not up to 800 m here either, it's up to 40 m away, it's effective at that distance, even if it goes on, let's say it's up to 200 m. Isn't that something to do with it? Because, of course, threaded weapons, artisans, that's quite... [[Those things are different.]] These are already carrying military rifles. [[That's right.]] [[Please, Senator...]] But there's one more question. I have a third question. [[Then please, Mr. Marshal, ask the third. It'll be three.]] If you don't mind... Okay? Does this new law change anything about another weapon that can be used for hunting? Because crossbows, bows, etc. can be used for hunting. Does something change here or the same rules that were and apply here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u234	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start from the end. We didn't talk about other weapons at committee meetings. The next question was about the amendment of minorities, I understand. Right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] As far as I am aware, it appears that in the Sejm it has been softened, so it can be defined. However, I am restoring this record to the full because of the seriousness of this issue and this issue. Fully... [[But... no, no, Lord...]] Because it's too risky to... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking if what you're proposing is in the old law, the one that's in force so far. I'm asking if it's already been done.]] In the old one, as far as I know, it was. [[Oh, it was.]] Yeah, in the old one, in the old one. Then it was changed in the Seym. [[I see. That's what I'm talking about.]] And the third question was... What? That's the third... Oh, it was all about these different kinds of weapons. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[For a different type of weapon, because it also applies crossbows...]] No, that wasn't discussed at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u236	You're asking Senator Hare a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u237	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask, in connection with these off-roads, how it's gonna be with the damage in this area. Yes, we can turn it off... Ecologists can come up with 500 m, 600 m, and 2 km around the area, only that if hunters can't hunt there, they are excluded from the issue of damage. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Exactly. Second thing. I'd like to give my friend here a nasty attention, as a hunter, that in every circle, it's very important that... I mean. If someone's in harm's way, there's no way he wouldn't admit it, and he wasn't sent out for research. The hunters look after it more than the ones who don't know it. [[There would be no fatality if they watched it like that.]] It wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u238	Mr. Senator, maybe it's just in the middle of a discussion... And the senator will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u239	It was about bankruptcy, wasn't it? [[No, no. The point was whether, in the case of areas that are excluded, those around the buildings were probably 150 m lately also the wheels would pay for the damage done by the game or not.]] This is what we didn't talk about at the committee meeting, but I think if the owner, the farmer, makes a reservation that it's not allowed to hunt, the wheels won't pay. But if there's no such objection... well, it's not his fault. I think that's when the wheels have to pay. [[Mr. Senator...]] But at the committee meeting, we didn't consider it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u240	Senator Blackbay's asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Were the opinions of any institutions, organisations considered at the committee meeting? Was there an opinion of the ministry... Different. As a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister presented this. Yes? What was the position of those organisations that submitted opinions on this law? Were there even such opinions and what was the opinion of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u242	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u243	There was definitely the Polish Hunting Union, which presented its opinion and reservations. There were environmental organisations that were opposed to any change and hunting in general. There were farm rooms, but... and I think that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u244	You're asking Senator Mioduszewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u245	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, hunters are over 100,000 people under weaponry. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about any verification of them? I'm talking about some secret co-workers or some Communist special forces. Was there a question of verification of this environment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u247	There was not much speech, except that... The Act states that the bodies of the Polish Łowiecki Union, as well as the management board of the hunting circle or review committee, cannot include persons born before 1 August 1972, who were employees, officers or soldiers of the state security authorities during the period from 22 July 1944 to 31 July 1990. It's just a verification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u248	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u249	Thank you. I'm gonna do it again... and I'm gonna be mean this time, 'cause I think we're actually sharing this lobby... [[Voice from the Hunter Room.]] ...yes, hunters, very sensitive anyway, and those outside... I'm going to ask, or actually I'm going to refer to what Senator Jackowski was talking about, that our constitution guarantees that parents raise their children according to the rules that they respect, that parents have the right to raise the children they want. Well, I don't want to be mean, but we have different parents. If parents to consider drinking alcohol, e.g. When you're 15, that's okay, that would mean that kids that age can drink? This approach to the case should probably not be accepted, should not be considered appropriate. Get to the point. Mr. Senator, in the second amendment, Article. Point 1, point 3, point 2 is referred to as the prohibition of scaring, grabbing, keeping animals. This article was introduced in the previous version of the law that came out of the Sejm, and you filed a minority motion to repeal this article... [[Change.]] Change, yes. I have a question... [[No, it's not a minority request. I'm explaining right away.]] No? [[This amendment was passed at the committee meeting.]] What? That he's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, in the article, in item 19... no, it's something else. We're talking about training birds and game hunting on living organisms. Do you, Senator, say that with your hand on your heart? Is it really for dogs to train on living organisms? Isn't it possible to do this in another way, for example... We have been told that there are other possibilities in England or Scandinavian countries. I won't mention any more sensitive people. Do we have to resort to such drastic methods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u250	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, with my hands on my heart I answer the senator in this way: it was not us, not our generation who invented it, but great rulers, our predecessors, kings, truth, great esteemed families that practiced it and got away with it, and no one opposed it. That's enough, the first man... We wouldn't be here if there wasn't hunting if there wasn't a hunt. Right? Everyone grew it, got the game, maybe in a much worse, more drastic way, but it allowed them to survive. Well, that's how this world is shaped. Most, 99%. Of us, they're believers. The Lord God has shaped this world so that he has sat us men at the very top and said, Make this world submissive to yourselves. And we have to do it to survive to somehow exist. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u252	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u253	Because there's an article in the Penal Code that prohibits animal abuse, I'd like to know if that doesn't conflict with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u254	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u255	I don't know what to answer the senator's question anymore. Here's what I'm gonna say: if we were going to do this, I'm really sorry, it's how the slaughterhouses, the slaughterhouses, would work. Those pork chops we like so much, those leather boots that the senator definitely has, because he doesn't walk in fake... [[No, I don't.]] There isn't? Well, if we had to take our clothes off of what's natural, it probably wouldn't be much left. I said, what's it made of? I said, what's it made of? First, there had to be a living animal, and it was just made of it. [[Mr. Senator, ad rem. Answer me if this does not interfere with the article of the Penal Code, which directly protects animals and in which it threatens for up to 3 years.]] I will answer how I have the right to answer: at the committee meeting we did not consider this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u256	Thank you, Senator. Stay still. You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u257	Mr. Marshal, in the whirlwind of this discussion, I almost forgot what question I have to ask... Well, in this new act there is a different way of choosing the board of committees and, above all, the chief hunter. Please indicate the differences between the old law and the present law, and tell me if you don't think it's in a sense, because I know that the chief hunter will be chosen, pointed out by the minister from among the three chosen... Isn't that a limitation of self-government and a transfer of proper full authority to the executive body of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u258	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've already mentioned it indirectly. There's a record, and that's how it's gonna be done. So far, it has been the case that the Supreme Council has chosen a candidate from among themselves. Was that better or worse? There are different opinions, right, depending on who's judging it. Now the minister will do it. Let's wait. If this doesn't work out or if it doesn't work out, we're gonna have to rewrite it, and we're gonna be able to change it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u260	You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was the issue of the harmfulness of lead in the environment discussed during the committee's work? We know that most of the ammunition used in hunting This is lead ammo. This problem has already been addressed, although ineffectively, in the European Union, there has been an attempt to reduce the use of lead ammunition. Was this problem discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u262	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This problem was mainly addressed by this group of environmentalists, so to speak, but in my view, the hunting activity of this lead does not make it to the environment that much. That's one thing. The second thing is that lead bullets are better suited for ricochets, steel reflect harder, are more dangerous, pose a greater threat. That's why I think we're gonna stay with lead for a while. I think lead that gets into the environment as a result of hunting is some micro-, minimum percentage compared to what they give us, for example. Fungalists who stand with mushrooms on some busy road. Right? There's more lead in there. So if we focus on this problem, the Poles will surely be healthier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u264	You're asking Senator Mioduszewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Shark seems to have touched this case before, and I would like to clarify it further, discuss it further. It's about the Animal Protection Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 It is said that by bullying animals one should mean inflicting or consciously allowing pain or suffering. Doesn't the senator think that such training of dogs is exactly what this point is talking about, so inflicting suffering, knowingly allowing suffering to occur?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u266	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u267	The only answer I can answer is that every killing makes... [[Aren't we breaking the law?]] ...pain, it hurts. This training is certainly not a pleasure. Yeah, it's a quid pro quo. Right? It's a quid pro quo. We want trained dogs that will continue to serve...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u268	Would you like to ask me another question? [[Maybe I'll ask you a second question right away, since I'm at the vote.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u269	I'll refer to the bill. I'd like to invoke the bill... or, in fact, the UN Convention. It's about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We are talking about these constitutional rights of parents to raise a child as they think it is right, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child also says that although a child is an independent subject, it requires special care and protection because of his mental and physical immaturity. In this context, allow children to hunt, to see blood and suffering... Isn't there a need to protect the baby from this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u270	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u271	I can only repeat what has already been said here. It is the parent who takes full responsibility and must be aware of how the child will accept this view. To me, it's not that cruel, because hunting ends in chastity. I know everyone's waiting to take pictures of animals on the ground that have been hunted. The hunters then stand by and worship the animals they have acquired by playing the anthem. There's full seriousness, because this is the most dignified way to get meat. And I don't think the children who are looking at it are experiencing any kind of mischief. They take it as a natural way to get the game. Well, I don't know anybody else.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u272	Are there any more questions? Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski: I am still asking...) Senator Mioduszewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u273	Sorry, I thought there was a line. The senator referred to tradition, referred to kings, etc. But doesn't the senator think it's a little different now that it's not the case? Back in the day, thinking was a way of life. Trivially, they were hunted to throw something in the pot. Today it's a lifestyle, a hobby. Do we need to continue promoting such traditions with cruelty? [[It's barbaric.]] And I will now refer to this penance, this veneration of animals. It's not a hi, it's a triumph. When children are involved, who look at this triumph of hunters, at how many of these animals have been killed, do they not just take it so that there is a shot, there is an animal, is killing? [[Capture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u274	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u275	Mr. Marshal, I think that's the last question, so I'm gonna answer like the senator said. Once upon a time, it was a way of life, and in our current situation it is a necessity. Hunting is necessary. Well, how does a senator imagine life around us if hunters disappeared and no hunting economy was conducted? I mean, the reduction shots were carried out to maintain balance in the biocene. This is already seen in the example of a deer, in the example of a wild boar. Some people can't go through, there's a tragedy, accidents. This has to be regulated, this balance has to be preserved. And that's the role of hunters. I think it's a hunter's job. Whether it was in that era right after the war or now They're doing well. It's the truth, and you have to give it to them honestly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u276	Thank you. No further questions. Senator rapporteur, thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Minister Małgorzata Golińska, like to speak? Please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, the discussion is hot, not easy. We are discussing the law of hunting, which, as the chairman of the Parliament's agricultural committee said, is almost a matter of government, because on the one hand it affects the fulfilment of constitutional obligations, and on the other hand it strongly interferes with issues relating to citizens' rights. This bill is an attempt to reconcile the expectations of several environments. Mr Kowalczyk, the Minister for the Environment, has declared an attempt to reach a compromise after talking to all the parties concerned. The law imposes an obligation to carry out the correct hunting economy on the association, which is the Polish Hunter's Union, and it is his country that gives specific tasks to carry out, also environmental tasks, which are included in the Constitution. It is hardly surprising that representatives of the Polish Hunting Union defend the current situation, fearing that taking away certain tools for effective hunting may generally hinder the correct hunting economy. But it is also difficult not to hear the voices of farmers or foresters who point to problems with damage, whether in forests or in crops in fields. However, the farmer does not want to be compensated, but he wants to avoid damage. And if these damages are already there, then of course he should receive appropriate, due compensation. They also have so-called rations and expectations. social, environmental organisations. I believe that their voice was a voice resulting from a genuine concern for the welfare of animals and a voice in defence of the citizens. In addition, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment is still pending, as this law implements the 2014 judgment. The Court of Justice has been asked by the Supreme Administrative Court about the rules governing the creation of hunting circuits covering private property even against the will of the owners of these lands. At that time, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that the current hunting law is incompatible with the constitution by authorising the entry into the hunting area regime of any property even against the will of the owner or tenant. The Court gave 18 months to implement the judgment, i.e. until January 2016. The previous government failed to execute its sentence. Applications for the repeal of the resolutions of the Seymists establishing the hunting circuits began to apply to the administrative courts and the courts agreed to these requests. At the same time, however, the law did not allow the setting of new circuits. Therefore, all I'm saying is that we couldn't wait any longer, we had to propose a proposal to amend the rules of hunting law. More than 30 changes were removed from the original project during the work in the Sejm. This was the decision made by the Members. Besides, work on this project started in December 2016 and today we are already in 2018. This also shows how difficult work is, how difficult matter we all have to face. But I believe that the proposed solutions, which are in this law, if they do not satisfy all parties, are some reasonable compromise which, on the one hand, will allow us to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and, on the other hand, will guarantee the rights of all those concerned. Interested, i.e. the hunter on whom the State imposes an obligation to carry out the correct hunting economy, and farmers who, on the one hand, want to decide what is going on in their field, on the other hand, do not want to have any damage, and if these damage are already, as I said, farmers want to have the right compensation. Many of these provisions, which are ultimately included in the Act, are the implementation of social demands. Those topics that you are discussing now, which is a ban on participation in children's hunting or hunting in the presence of children up to 18 years old. Now, after the committee meeting, this age is reduced Or a ban on training dogs or training feathered game in which there would be injury or killing of animals... These are the amendments that the social side has called for, and they have been incorporated and introduced by Members of Parliament. I think that even if this is a difficult compromise, we can talk about this compromise in the case of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u278	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Kilian. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the article. 33d. This article lists a catalogue of people who cannot perform functions in the bodies of the Polish Hunting Union or hunting circles, there is a catalogue of people who cannot perform them. And there is a name for the person who was an employee, officer or soldier of the state security authorities. My question is: Has the Government of Law and Justice lacked vigilance, or has it simply been deliberately omitted and secret co-workers ignored? The Civic Platform Club will submit such an amendment to add secret co-workers to this article. But I don't suspect there was a lack of vigilance here, but I think it was conscious action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u280	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u281	In the original proposed provision concerning the composition of the PZŁ bodies, management boards and restrictions were mentioned secret co-workers, but during the legislative work in the Sejm and following the submission of doubts as to the effectiveness of the introduction and enforcement of this provision, Members decided to remove this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u282	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Spider. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will return to this question again, which I have heard from several hunters and forest owners. As for the forest crops that are in the perimeter, because such cases, let's say, are in the mountains where there is a large fragmentation... Well, there's a young man, there's seedlings, and they're destroyed. And is that subject to later payment of compensation, loss calculation? If not, why not? What about those private owners? And another situation, which, let's say, happens very often here, because these farm plots are very close to the house, and the houses are very scattered, the buildings are, let's say, scattered, about 50, 60, 100 meters from the house there are parcels and animals under the house itself come up and destroy. Well, what do these people say? What? And the third question I have. There are cases where the owner can disable the plot from the hunting circuit. Right? It happens at his request, at his request. And if the distance is less than 150 m, can't the owner, doesn't he have the right to include this parcel in his circuit, even though there's a 150 m record? There's often damage when there's a lot of game in there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u284	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u285	Originally defined distance from buildings In fact, this is the case in the existing legislation. The extension of this section was a decision to seek a compromise between the expectations of the social side, represented by environmental organisations, but probably by some of the Members of the Modern and Civic Platform who called for a distance of 500 m... In the Ministry we imposed various distances on maps to find one that would be satisfying in terms of these expectations and, on the other hand, would not rule out the possibility of effective hunting. And in our view, the distance of 150 m is that distance where this compromise was as if it had been reached. Of course, if you're asking if you can turn on a closer area, if the owner wants him to hunt right under his windows... That's not possible. If there is a prohibition provision, it is not possible to circumvent that prohibition. Thank you. [[The question is, Senator Kaminski...]] One more thing, because it was also about forest cultivation and... [[Tell me about it.]] ...and claim compensation. That's not gonna happen. Forests are the natural habitat of the game and the fact that damage occurs there, also in crops or forest youth, does not make Forests allowed to perform to the £3 or hunting circles with claims and compensations. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u286	Another question. Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u287	Thank you very much. Minister, my question concerns the rules for setting the boundaries of hunting circuits by the Slaskie voivodeship sejmik. The previous regulations said that if the hunting district was in the area of more than one voivodship, it was decided by the voivodship, in which the largest part of the voivodship was located, and agreed with the other voivodships. This principle has been abolished in Article. 27. What will it look like in this situation, under the new law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u288	At this moment, the Marshal of the voivodship may be... Well, the perimeter should be in one voivodship. [[If you don't mind my asking... but we do have hunting circuits that cover at least two voivodships. I know that circuit. Is that the kind of circuit that can't exist now?]] That's not gonna happen. [[But it does exist today.]] But we're in the process of changing the law, so... [[Yeah, but they're gonna have to split it into two different circles?]] It is the marshals who will decide the boundaries of the circuits. [[Well, it's weird because right now... it's a weird recipe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u289	Thank you very much. Senator Mioduszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u290	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If the farmer's parcel is in the hunting area, then the hunting wheel, as far as I know, pays for the use of the old town. Why not the landlord? Wouldn't that be more natural? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Once again...]] If the cannon is in the hunting circuit, there's a fee for using it for hunting there. I think the hunting wheel's paying them off to old times, as far as I know. Shouldn't the wheel be paying the landlord to hunt practically on his turf?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u291	I can't answer that question. I'll be honest, I'll answer you in writing. I'll verify what you're saying. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u292	Mr. Senator Czerwinski... Senator Hare will answer that question. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u293	Yes. According to the constitution, free-lawed game is the property of the state. [[Voice from the room: But the terrain is not.]] Terene doesn't hunt. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u294	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please tell me whether it is possible to exclude arable land or agricultural land from the hunting circuit in general. 'Cause you just said the woods didn't. And what's it like with agricultural land? 'Cause maybe the farmers are gonna want to shut it down. And the question is, is that possible? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: That means shutting down...]] What arguments would they have to use? There's an article here so I don't lie... It's an art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 12th he may give a chance to do so. Tell me what they'd have to do. This is actually the main element of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u296	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u297	As far as exclusion from the hunting circuit is concerned, this is not possible because it would be difficult to establish the perimeter boundaries if requests for exclusion were to come into effect. But the owner has the right to object to the old age of hunting or hunting in his territory. This is in our view the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the right of the owner or tenant to decide on his land.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u298	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this 18th. An amendment was tabled to reduce the age allowed to participate in the hunt to 15 years. What's the ministry's position? Was the Ministry's approval for this amendment? Will it be, or is it? Because at the committee meeting, this proposal was made.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u300	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! The original provisions of the bill did not prohibit the participation of children in hunting or hunting in the presence of children. This entry appeared during the work in the Sejm as an expression of a hearing by Members of the Social Party. Today, the position presented by the Minister for the Environment is that we should not move this record. It should be as adopted in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u301	Thank you very much. Senator Mioduszewski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u302	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have one more question. Don't you think, Minister, that the case has been put on the table since the owner of the plot is going to ask the court to disable his property? Shouldn't it be the other way around that this hunting wheel should come to the landlord, make a deal with him? Even in such a non-financial way That he will hunt there, and somehow ensure that in his field he will make sure that the animals do no harm? Well, any deal, not that it's the farmer's job to turn himself in... [[It's not for court. It's for the old man.]] Not to court, just to... yeah, sorry, not to court.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u303	The first thing is, there's no more court order... In the original draft, it was indeed foreseen that the owner should prove his reasons before the court. It's been removed and today it's like this person is filing an application to the old age. The second important thing. If the owner were to submit proposals during the calculation of the perimeter boundaries by the marshal and the advisory advisory team and that voice would not have been heard, then the arguments indicated by him would not have been supported by the marshal, and then, as a result of being subject to the circuit regime, there would have been damage... Then, of course, he has the right to claim compensation. [[Wouldn't it be better the other way around?]] If we want to manage properly, then... Waiting for requests and sending a hunter to every owner It would be much more difficult to implement and it certainly would not make it easier for us to achieve a proper hunting economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u304	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me quote such a question and answer to one gentleman. Then I'd like a comment from the Minister. Question: "How will the hunter's upbringing process be now?" [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Excuse me... What?]] A hunter. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Aha, upbringing.]] Raising a hunter... And the answer is, I don't know, and it bothers me very much. If we want to achieve a high level of hunting, and knowledge, skill and ethics are involved, we need a lot of practice from the earliest possible years. We forbid children from practicing the crafts of hunting, and every day television shows scenes where people are brutally killed. Computer games are also violent. He does not care about matters related to the protection of conceived or born life. Sexual promiscuity is proposed. In addition, all children want to give a pill day after day and tell them that they have the right to take it without their parents knowing. Something is probably wrong when left-liberal views are beginning to prevail and no importance is attached to tradition and culture. These are the words of Professor Jan Szyszka, former minister. Would you mind referring to those words? This isn't your current boss, so I don't think you should be afraid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to comment on the words of other Members, Senators or Ministers. That's not my role. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I won't be allowed in... [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u307	Very good. If there isn't... Oh, there's still... Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u308	Minister, you've talked a lot about farmers who want this damage not to be caused so that the amount of game is regulated. Does this law allow for better action, or does this law make it even more difficult for hunters to act? How do you feel about that? It's about the law in the Seym because it's clear that we're about to decide... But does she, in this seym shape, guarantee what the farmers demanded? And one more piece. The farmers... You can disable your property from the hunt, plot number, etc., but you must not interfere when it comes to game. So I can't scare, I can't... So it doesn't give the farmer anything, because basically he can say to himself, "OK, but I don't have the right to compensation, I can't do anything." So that's actually, you could say, a dead report. Is there any way to solve this so that farmers who disable their property from hunting have any powers in this regard? Because they don't have any powers for it, they can only do harm to themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start by answering the second question. In fact, in the course of the work, there were allegations that by introducing a recipe... I'll quote him. It's about art. 9: Zakaz In addition to hunting and hunting, scarring, grabbing, holding, wounding and killing animals. There have been allegations that this recipe, this new recipe, will strike the farmer's right to, for example, get the wild boar out of his field. But if we see what that record sounded like before the introduction of this new one... I'll quote him, too. He was like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In addition to hunting and hunting, testing of hunting dogs, as well as training of hunting birds and hunting dogs, organized by the Polish Union of Hunters, scars, grabbing, holding, wounding and killing animals. So, in fact, if we were to go into details, we could say that this ban on scaring the game out of the farmer's field has also been in force so far. So nothing will change in this respect. And I think that's... One more question was... [[First question: does this law allow for a greater reduction?]] Well, now we'd have to reach out to what we were really looking for... to what farmers were saying about hunting hunters. I will now be based on my experience as a forester, I will also be based on my parliamentary commitment to date, as well as on what I hear at very frequent meetings with farmers, on whom I listen to the votes of farmers. So far, as if the biggest problem was that the farmer had the feeling that he was always in a loser position when it came to contacting the hunter. It means that all the tools to decide on the amount of compensation, at all, to determine whether it's a pity or not... This was all going on a bit unilaterally, the farmer had little to say. Very often farmers also said that they felt hurt. Because there were also situations when a hunter accounted for whether the farmer had grown the land properly, whether he had used such or other means, etc., etc. Thus, the law certainly solves these issues, for example because now the evaluation team or the inspection team will be outside the hunter or member of the hunting circle also the farmer and also the representative of the local government. This is also the case with the appeal body. Let's call it that. - which is the forerunner of the building on which the property is situated and the possibility of appealing to the court. Following the comments of the farmers at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committees, we have also tried to improve all of this in terms of deadlines so as to enable on the one hand the evaluation team to carry out the tasks set out and later the evaluation team, and on the other hand to shorten the deadlines to the extent possible, so as not to limit or prevent the normal management and harvesting of the farmer. So this is certainly a strengthening of the position of the farmer in this regard. I also think that if... we introduce a guarantee of compensation even if the hunting wheel is insolvent and resolved. Then these commitments are taken over by the Polish Hunter Union, which then has the opportunity to investigate this money from the wheel. This is also the answer to the expectations of farmers, who very often said that if even, I say ugly, they argued about compensation when it came to writing, then it was very difficult for them to enforce the payment. Very often the wheels were hidden just because they just didn't have the money. So I think that this provision may not be enough to reassure farmers as much as it will ensure that, if damage is done, first, they will have these damages fairly estimated, and secondly, they will be paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u310	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u311	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have a question about calling a national hunter. What was the basis of such a record that the national hunter would be appointed by the Minister of the 3rd, if I remember, by the candidates submitted by the Polish Hunting Union? [[Will there be a former minister?]] No, that's not what I'm gonna ask. What were you following, setting up such a procedure for the appointment of the board of the Polish Hunting Union and the head of this union?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u312	As you know, the Minister of Environment is responsible for overseeing the hunting economy. The Constitutional Tribunal also pointed out that, in the existing rules in hunting law, this oversight was insufficient. In this connection, we have proposed that the main management, which includes national hunters and members, from 2 to 4 members, in the case of national and district hunters... To be appointed and cancelled by the Minister of the Environment, appointed from among three candidates submitted by the General Council and also cancelled after consultation of the Supreme Council of Łowiecka. So, on the one hand, we wanted to execute the judgment of the Court, on the other hand, from our point of view and on the basis of the votes coming to us, we considered it rational to increase such real supervision of the Polish Łowiecki Union. As far as consultation is concerned, for example on appeal, these were the votes of the hunters themselves at the session of the Sejm committee. They also indicated that they would like to have some influence, so that it was not entirely one decision of the Minister. So this is also some attempt to reach a compromise, although I do not hide that strengthening supervision from the beginning was one of the main assumptions of the new bill. Since Minister Kowalczyk is Minister, he also spoke quite clearly about this supervision.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u313	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I actually have a very brief question that you were giving answers to at some point, but then the discussion went on... Can the governor, considering the request to exclude the property from the hunting circuit, have a negative opinion on this proposal, disagree with such exclusion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u315	No. If such a request affects the old age, he is only obliged to forward this information to the tenant or to the minister responsible for environmental matters. It's like his role here... There's no way anyone's questioning the farmer's objection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u316	I see. And I'm asking because Senator Spider was talking about this shredded property and so on, and here may be part of the property included in the hunting circuit, and somewhere, so to speak, there may be some real estate in the island that won't be included in this circuit. It seems a little weird, but if you can't... To me, this answer is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u317	The Circuit will certainly cover all the properties, but part of them will be prohibited from hunting, as well as hunting, at the request of owners or tenants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u318	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to clarify once again the issue of the appointment of a national board and a hunter. The State assumes strengthening the control function in relation to the duties of the Minister of the Environment in relation to the hunting, forestry, etc. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Yes.]] I have this question: who finances the functioning of the Polish Hunting Union, the Management Board and the Hunting Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u320	I understand you're trying to... [[No, I'm just asking. The Minister will tell me who's financing it.]] Members of the Polish Łowiecki Union are obliged to pay contributions. In addition, wheels can lease land and obtain EU funding for it, they can also sell hunting, but they still manage on the property of the State Treasury and on the game which is owned by the State Treasury. [[Mr. Marshal, I still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u321	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u322	Minister, let me ask you one more time. That's not what I asked, but thank you for the answer. Once again, I would like to ask: who finances the functioning of the national board of the Polish Łowiecki Union according to the new draft law? [[It's from contributions.]] After all, national hunters and the union will bear specific costs, etc. How are they gonna get the money?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u323	That's what I'm talking about. The Polish Łowiecki Union benefits from membership contributions, in which the State does not interfere at all, it also has the possibility of obtaining other revenues and from this it finances all its tasks. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u324	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u325	Minister, do I understand that the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union maintains inter alia. from money raised from sales while doing all kinds of events and stuff like that? Is that what he's doing? I'm the one who's gonna tell you to... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: I'll ask because we don't understand each other.]] Minister, Chief Executive of the Polish Hunting Union 100% keeps up with the contributions of hunters, only and exclusively. [[It's just...]] Please? [[Okay, okay...]] If there are other income, Zdzisław will tell you about it, but generally so. And the other sources of income feed the finances of the hunting circles. These are 2 different legal institutions: the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union having its tasks and hunting circle, which has a different legal personality. And as far as I know, the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union is entirely maintained only from the contributions of hunters. If there are other sources, a colleague will see to it. So, as I understand it, you would like to see if you would like the tasks to be carried out by the board of the Polish Łowietski Union. I am talking about the tasks of the Ministry of Environment. According to this draft law, hunters were financed in full by contributions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u326	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u327	Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Polish Hunter Union is a non-governmental organization. The essence of the NGO is that its members create the authorities themselves, well, all the structures that are part of this organisation. And in this law, we change this order a little bit or you change this order, because some of the authorities of this union will in practice be appointed, appointed by the Minister. Is this the right practice? Should NGOs operate in such a way that their authorities or certain bodies are set up by the state administration? And if such a person is appointed by the administration Here, e.g. We're talking about a hunter. Is this person becoming an employee of the state administration?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u329	I think that in answer to this question, it is worth mentioning the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2012, because it is there that the decision as to what form the Polish Hunting Union is: whether it is an association or a local government. In view of the fact that the Court has pointed out that the statutory exclusive nature of PZŁ in the pursuit of a specific activity in the form of a hunting economy and as regards the admissibility of the pursuit of hunting, it justifies its classification as a compulsory association of hunters established by the will of the legislator and participating in the carrying out of tasks related to the broad administration of hunting cases. The EaP shall perform the tasks of the State administration in relation to the tasks expressed in Article. 5 and Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 74. 2 of the Constitution is an obligation to protect the environment, because the hunting economy is part of the protection of the environment. The consequence of imposing a management obligation on the PAIiIZ for a specific category of public administration cases is to be subject to supervision by the competent public authorities. In conclusion, the Court found that the Polish Insurance and Occupational Pensions Fund is a set-up law, i.e. by the will of the State, an association of natural and legal persons. It is therefore not a voluntary independent organisation to which the State has assigned specific responsibilities. Since an organisation of a corporate nature was established on the basis of the PZŁ association and has been entrusted with the obligations of carrying out specific tasks of the State, PZŁ has ceased to be an association. The Court pointed out that the EaP has a number of characteristics of the self-government, but did not consider the relationship to be fully incorporated into the legal form of the self-government. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that an increase in supervision, as also requested by the Constitutional Tribunal in another judgment, violates the right to self-decision or to the self-government of the Polish Łowicki Union or violates the law on associations. [[So what's a hunting relationship? He's not a self-government, he's not a self-government, he's not a self-government...]] Yes... [[...a non-governmental organization...]] ...shows some of the characteristics of self-government... [[So how would this organization be defined?]] I will quote here the Court: 'Forced association of people interested in hunting.' This is an organisation that has a mandate by the State, but as if it exhibits many characteristics similar to those of a voluntary association.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u330	I don't see any more... Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u331	Minister, just one more question about subsidies. I understand from the statement made by the Minister and the rapporteur that the procedure will be as follows: if there is a damage, the circle pays for these compensations. I'm skipping the appeal case. And if there is not enough money, the Polish Hunter Union pays and can claim from the board of directors a circle of claims, i.e. amounts paid to supplement the missing amount to compensate farmers or persons who claim this compensation for damages, certain amounts. I take it that's the procedure, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u332	Hunting circles have legal personality and they are responsible. [[Yes.]] And in the event of the liquidation of the hunting wheel, when the wheel's assets are insufficient to cover compensation obligations, these liabilities are taken over by the Polish Hunting Union and he has a regression claim to the members of the management board of the circle. The members of the board of directors of the circle shall be free from those claims if they prove that they did not have an impact on the damage arising.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u333	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Mioduszewski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the senator... [[Jadwiga Rotnicka.]] Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my opinion on this bill that came to us from the Sejm. I think she solves a lot of problems connected with thinking and all this tradition, as colleagues here say. And I would like to thank the Minister for answering our not always clear questions so clearly and in such a free way. But in order not to prolong the matter, I would like to point out that a few things Even though I consider the bill to be basically good It would, however, add value to it. One thing that has already been mentioned here concerns the introduction of regular psychological and ophthalmological tests for hunters. All the more so because they're people who use guns, and sometimes they're from a few pieces. I read somewhere that almost 70% The weapons our citizens have are in the hands of hunters. It is known that with age As even the marshal mentioned here, The sight gets worse, sometimes the hearing gets worse and it's worth checking out your hunting skills. And I'm reporting, among other things. such an amendment, which states that in the Law of 21 May 1999 on arms and ammunition, etc. changes are made. The second amendment concerns the extension of the provision in Article. 1 in point 14, in Article. 33d. After words that talk about what people can't be on board. whether words are added to or cooperated with the authorities of the hunting union. This is the amendment that Kilian's colleague mentioned, which has now left. Finally, the third amendment, which was also highlighted by the social side, concerns the use of weapons or ammunition... not weapons, but lead ammunition. It's about art. 11a save the following content: Until 31 December 2019 the use of lead ammunition for hunting outside marshes, peat bogs and natural and artificial water reservoirs shall be permitted. Because I understand that swamps and water tanks are off the grid. These 3 amendments on behalf of Senator Shark, Senator Kilian, and I submit my own amendments to the minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u335	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Maybe I'll start with a proposal I'd like to make, and then I'll explain why I'm making it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would you mind if I, uh... Because I don't see the minister, listen... [[Calm down, please.]] Because I don't see the minister. [[We have a discussion club.]] The Minister's statement confirmed that I should submit a motion which I will present in a moment. Namely, on my own behalf, I would like to file a motion to reject this law. [[All of it?]] All of it. Now I'm gonna tell you why. What is happening here today, in my opinion, should be the beginning of a discussion on a modern law on the tasks you have as a ministry, which the Polish state has, which should carry out various kinds of organizations. This substantiveity of the Minister has confirmed my conviction that there is hope and opportunity for such a bill to arise. For the first time, I meet a person who talks about it in a factual, cool and emotionless way, and at the same time knows what he's talking about. Such discussions have always been accompanied by incredible emotions. I was working in a team that tried to develop a new bill of law, hunting law in the previous term, and precisely because of the emotions it was not possible to combine water with fire, namely what environmentalists want, what farmers expect and what concerns the implementation of the tasks of the Ministry of Environment, with what hunters expect. And so it was going on, I'll be honest with you, all kinds of rope pulling, at different stages we pulled in different directions, depending on who knew someone better there, where the meeting was held, and what elements were under discussion of this team. Together with Senator Gorczyca, we worked in this team and, as I said, the effect was that we had a lot of good ideas combining various ethical and ecological considerations, which the Senator also talked about here. And that's why I'm filing this motion. I had a lot of doubts, but the minister confirmed it. 'Cause you gotta ask yourself, if you're looking from the top... In my view, Madam Minister, it cannot be that hunters consist of tasks which the State Treasury is tasked with by the Chief Executive, which the Minister appoints. I agree with the thesis that supervision of tasks which should be and are carried out by the Polish Hunter Union or any other relationship... Well, it should be under the strict supervision of the Ministry of Environment, I totally agree with that. In turn this whole construction I mean what you asked Senator Klein. She's terribly dwarf. Well, you have to create a new bill, a modern one, a 21st century project. Today we have the means of communication, knowledge, skills, and we are able to create such a law, only we need someone who combines water and fire, that is, the pursuit of environmentalists, hunters, farmers, as well as those tasks that the Ministry of the Environment has to accomplish. Now it's a matter of responsibility. Let's assume there's a pack of wild boars coming in. I think most of you know what a pack of wild boars is, though I say it as a hunter. And it's causing huge damage. The wheel is insolvent. The damage exceeds the amount that the wheel has, so the board of directors pays. And that's what I'm gonna say. Regress against the board. Of course, the board may have explained that he had no control over it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good design, because the wheel boards are working socially, so it will be difficult to convince them now that they still have a material responsibility for the tasks they carry out socially. This construction also requires work. We come to the very sensitive issues mentioned here. I listened to my colleagues who took part in the committee's meeting. The fact that dogs can be trained on phantoms, that birds can also be trained on various types of constructed phantoms and that no other animals need to be used, does not require pain. Of course, I'm beginning to have doubts. Therefore, there is a need to have a substantive discussion about the technical possibilities of this type of training today, whether it is possible at all and not to be guided by emotions. Some are totally against, others are totally behind and we start making decisions based on emotion. And I want to remind you of the saying: where emotions come, the mind sleeps. And that's why I'm saying once again that we should go, in a non-emotional way, as a House of Reflection, in cooperation with the Ministry, with the initiative to create a new bill, the basis of which would be this law. After all, if we now prohibit the training of dogs in the territory of the Republic of Poland, then... I mean, there are people who do it professionally. After all, this is equivalent to shutting down their business today. If we want to do this, then we also need to anticipate a cycle of investigation into this, I don't know, compensation, since we are setting up such a law. There are a lot of things and little things that they'll touch, as you always say nicely, sovereign. They're gonna touch the specific people they're gonna deal with. When it comes to raising children, there are constitutional arguments, arguments about when and how it begins... Well, there's a lot of different situations about when you're old. Or 15, 16, or 18 years old at all, allow the child to participate in the hunt. Now, if you'll just notice... If someone's been hunting, he knows that hunting consists of several phases. And the final phase is to be chastised. Well, not to mention the dinner. Doesn't a 17-year-old child have the right to attend a dinner and be punished for that? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are thousands of little things that can cause all sorts of things no longer say that funny, but also difficult situations. Getting Nearer to the End 'Cause I wouldn't want to discuss all the minor problems that this law brings about, as I believe it to be, also good elements, such as strengthening the role of owner, shortening this road concerning... I'm making a statement that I don't want hunting to take place on my land, and that's good enough for the old-fashioned. So there are also good elements. But I also want to say that if... I forgot to ask the Minister what the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture was. But I think it's a positive thing about the existence of animal management in agriculture, but also in forest areas at all. Because it's easy to imagine... If anyone knows that if we have today I don't know, because it's different sources they give different 200 or 300,000 wild boars in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in 2 years we will have about 1.5 million, or maybe a little more. So that this is something that affects the Polish country, a rational economy that combines these issues: agriculture, ethics, environmental protection, perception of the problem of environmentalists. That's why I don't think anything will happen in Poland. I repeat, nothing. For 2, 3, 4 months or six months, we will postpone this bill and as a House of Reflection, taking into account the reflections of this discussion and all the countries, all our doubts, we will commit that within six months in cooperation with the Minister and the Ministry we will submit a modern law on Polish hunting, respecting the tradition that Senator Łyczak so beautifully spoke of, and all that I have talked about and what we talked about in the discussion. It's worth thinking about. And that is why I appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice: "Dear people, think about it. There's no rush, nothing's chasing us. There is one element on which I agree with the Minister: the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the ownership role and my ownership. That's a problem. And it's going to be an element that's going to be us, so to speak, rushing. If you wish to do so So that we can quickly and efficiently submit a draft new law, a law for the 21st century, linking water and fire. Mr. Marshal, I submit a motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u337	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I will immediately say that I am a hunter, a member of 2 wheels, Dubelt in Chełm and Acquisition in Annopol, hunting for about 15 and 16 years. A lot of arguments that came up during the discussion... I have to say, I can't classify them as real or spoken by people who know a little bit about hunting. I think the most important thing to pay attention to is the fact that the Polish Hunting Union I don't know if the name was always exactly the same, but it was always one organization, which was created around 1880, and they formed it, as it is formally said, Vincent Pol and Julius Kossak, one of those famous Kossacks. And in spite of the various changes in history, wars, changes in systems and systems, which were sometimes very violent... The Polish Hunter Union is a cultural change that has survived all historical storms to this day. And I can definitely say one thing. By participating not only in hunting... to those who don't have much to do with hunting, it seems that hunters only think about guns, animals and shooting. No. There is a lot of economic work in the field, work on the construction of hunting equipment, sanders, etc. And it's not like my friend Sztark said here, that hunters take a few kilos of something out there and carry animals into the woods to feed her. I can say that in each of the circles in which I participate, there are lots of beets and tons of corn bought for the winter. This must all be properly distributed on the ground. This is a very serious job. Most of my colleagues are in the field, and I can say that their work should be classified as environmentalists rather than hunters. In fact, it's not what it's said here, but sometimes things look weird from a distance. It's been said here about dogs trained on animals. To be honest: 15 or 16 years I belong to hunting circles and actively participate in feeding and other work than hunting, because this is, unfortunately, the fate of hunters, and I have not seen or heard of such things. Someone read it in a book. He liked it that it's jerking off, and it's emotional. And now there are stories everywhere about exercises on live animals. I didn't see it. When it comes to the health and fitness of hunters, everyone who is involved in hunting knows that March and April are the time when we meet at the shooting range. [[Mandatory.]] ...on a mandatory basis, when everyone has to fire some ammo. I don't think there's more than 50 of them coming out. And this lead doesn't go anywhere in the world and poisons something, etc., because these are real shooting ranges where there are bullets. I have an older friend, one of... well, the best shooter in Lublin who's 77 years old. And when he shows up at the shooting competitions, everyone knows that there's room from the second down, which is the second, third, etc. Everyone in the circle also realizes that if there's someone out there who's got health problems, they're all looking at him incredibly carefully. That's another word I'd use here. And wondering if he's a threat to us first of all. Anyone who has had an operation has been treated for some chronic illness, etc., very often comes to meetings, hunting without a shotgun, until he is assured that he is a safe hunter. Plus, it's unbelievably... schooly to discuss these issues here by someone who doesn't have any contact with it, I'd say. The matter of this reprimand. Well, most hunters who have children of the right age come with children if they decide that's how they're gonna be raised. And these kids are in the booth. With great sensitivity as an academic teacher to ethical, moral matters, I do not see anything in it that corrupts these young people, even the other way around. She meets reality not the artificial one, as the rapporteur's colleague here said, computer, living room, etc., but the real one that we cannot escape. Anyone who likes to eat meat must realize that someone has grown this animal, slaughtered it and then prepared it so that we can eat it. And not that someone, in my opinion. If it is a fault, it takes the blame for it, only the one who is the final consumer in the process. And that's how it's supposed to be understood. Maybe I'll touch one more thing here, a very important one. What I love about hunting wheels is apoliticality. I haven't been in touch with any political conversations over the last few years. Sometimes there's somebody out there asking about the election results or something, but everybody knows... We avoid these topics because it is a way for this organization to actually function for the next 150 years. Of course, various improvements are always needed. A lot comes from observation, many of the changes in life technology even, but that's probably the third time I've seen such action in front of hunting circles: 'No, something has to be done with them.' I think there was something like this during the martial law period, somehow the hunters got away with it. Later, I think there were fittings again. Let's not do one thing: if something works well, let's just leave it at that, let's keep it going. Minor enhancements, yes; such reaching the depths of this organism, I do not think so. We do not have many organizations that could be called the invariable culture of our nation's life, just like the Polish Hunting Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u339	Thank you very much. Senator Mioduszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Senate! I would like to refer to two issues that were probably the most controversial and that were addressed in all these e-mails that we received in the number of hundreds. Or even a thousand. I respect and value Polish tradition very much, but tradition is not a dogma in itself. Contrary to changes in culture, morals, social sensitivity and security, it becomes a demagogic phrase. Today we have to answer the question of whether we want future generations to view us as barbarians who, in the name of tradition, continue with unacceptable practices in today's world or as people who change the world for the better. Paradoxically, hunters themselves changed the tradition of hunting. A long time ago, it was a necessity. Hunting was something that served man's survival. Training dogs and falcons on live animals was an element that was consequently intended to serve this I'll tell you colloquially. To be able to put something in a pot. At that time, it was their parents' duty to have their children familiarize themselves with weapons from an early age, be able to identify leads, find animals, shoot them, and eventually disembowel them. Today hunting is not for survival. Hunting, which was once a need for life, is a hobby today, has become a lifestyle. It is hypocritical, therefore, to argue that centuries-old tradition allows us to do the same as our great-grandfathers did. I'm not the enemy of hunters. I don't mind hunting. Especially those who, while pursuing their passion, do a lot of good for the ecosystem. I am aware that you feed animals, reduce damage to agriculture and reduce the overpopulation of certain species in order to maintain the diversity of species. However, you have to acknowledge that the world is changing and the empathizing of children with the sight of killed game, blood, and to show pride and joy that the hunt has succeeded, because so much has been killed and so much will be believed... that is primarily disturbing the system of child values. The child thinks straight. He sees a gun, he hears a shot, and then he shoots an animal, and he pulls a simple conclusion from it. He shoots himself to kill. It is unable to understand the terms "preventive shot" or "superpopulation." Even in computer games simulating hunting are age limits 16+, 18+, and you want to allow children to hunt in the real world. Ladies and gentlemen, there are arguments from the hunter's community that parents have a constitutional right to raise their children according to their beliefs, and restricting children's right to participate in hunting means restricting freedom. 500 years ago, Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski said: without rights there can be no real freedom. Following this thought, you can say: the freedom of parents to raise a child according to their beliefs is limited by the rights of the child. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child makes it clear that the child is a stand-alone entity, but because of his mental and physical immaturity he requires special care and legal protection. I repeat: because of its mental and physical immaturity, it requires special care and legal protection. Protection against upbringing that is not in line with modern standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, another point of dispute is the use of live animals to train dogs and hunting birds. Mr. Rafael I'm not gonna mention a name. In a dramatic appeal to the senators, I understand that in the name of hunters, which we probably all received in e-mails, breaks hands and the informed funeral of Polish cynology. He despairs that despite the partitions, despite World War II Polish cynology survived, and here the evil parliamentarians introduced laws that forbid the sniffing of dogs on defenseless animals. It would seem that the basis of cynology is just the sting. However, I would like to point out that according to the dictionary Władysław Kopaliński, kynology is a science about the dog, about its breeding and training, there is no word about the rat. Mr Rafał makes one further argument, saying that this ban will be translated into the eradication of ASF, or African swine fever. Let me visualize this fight. Imagine that a wild boar gets shot by a pack of dogs, bites it, bites it, poor dogs don't know that this art is infected with ASF. Then the wild one gets in the car trunk, the dogs fall into the back seat. The meat's on its way to the lab. And here's the surprise. The play was infected. And the hunter is a pig farmer. And then what happens? The disposal of all farming is inevitable. From this visualization it can be concluded that this ban on training dogs will be translated into the fight against ASF. The hunters probably know what it's all about, but there are a lot of people among us who only learned when discussing this law that there is such a thing as training dogs using live animals. For all these people, brief information about how such training looks in practice. The fox is released into the hole without a way out. He's being followed by the so-called. excavators. The fox has no chance of escaping. And in the natural environment, the fox hole has an escape exit. How does it end? According to a zoopsychologist and forensic expert in the field of Animal psychology, Mrs. Isabella Kadłucka, often occurs during exercise so much stress in the fox that he dies of a heart attack. The wild man locks himself in a pen with no way out and squeals on dogs. For the safety of dogs, wild boars are used without fangs, without swords. In both cases, training is just a sting. Meanwhile, the Animal Protection Act in Art. 6 says e.g. Yes: By bullying animals, it is necessary to mean inflicting or deliberately allowing pain or suffering. I'm the one who's asking now: isn't it a practice like putting one animal on the other's side to allow pain and suffering to occur? To this question hunters have an immediate answer in the sentence: it is in the name of higher goals. Then let me ask you one more question: what higher purpose can justify pain and suffering? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u341	Thank you very much. Senator Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u342	Miss Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to begin by thanking you very much. Especially to the two senators for their votes, to Senator Blackbay and to Senator Bunny. When we listen to senator hare, we feel... we see a completely different picture of hunting, hunting, what we're doing. This is presented in a real version, in this version this activity has basically the advantages itself. Senator Czarnobaj basically supported all the entries that are in the bill and those that we propose. And for that, I thank him... Except for one thing, except that he filed a motion to reject the bill or postpone it in time, because I don't agree with that anymore. I disagree because I believe that this law should be introduced. In addition, these are the recommendations of the Court of Justice And if something doesn't work the way it should, then we'll go back to the amendment. I will now move on to what I want to say to the High House. Hunting has been associated with humanity since the dawn of its history. In the ancient past, it provided food, covering, and material to make the necessary tools for life. As civilization developed, it was subject to various changes depending on human will and needs. In Poland, since the beginning of our statehood, it has always been characterized by a high level of nature. This confirmation can be found, for example, in the description of the court writer of King John III Sobieski: The manor does not stay long in one place, it is constantly on the way, and it is on the way the most pleasant in the world. For the whole of Poland is the most beautiful land of hunting that I have ever seen, and it is one unbroken hunting. Poland is a country supposedly intentionally created for hunting. Unfortunately, after the period of this magnificent prosperity, further partitions and further fates of our country, devastation by the invaders, invaders of our animals and property of hunting culture became a cause for the hard work of Polish hunters for unification, active conservation of nature and hunting heritage. Already 30 years before our homeland regained independence, i.e. about 130 years ago, in 1888, representatives of prominent Polish families, Branicki, Eysymonts, Lubomirski, Sztolcmans and Wielkopolski, in their speech expressed the idea of creating one Polish hunters' organization, stating: All this thanks to the extremely intense activity of Polish hunters came true only after regaining independence as a result of the extremely difficult, but ended with the expected effect of merging 3 different hunting systems on the lands of the reborn homeland: Austrian, Prussian and Russian. It has been an evolutionary integration since 1923 of many hunting organizations into one organization of Polish hunters, which since 1936 has been called the Polish Hunting Union. After these undeniable achievements in 1939, another cataclysm came. World War II. Hitler's invader without any scruples almost completely knocked out our pets, plundered the most valuable collections of trophies and artistic works, destroying virtually all the enormous achievements of Polish hunters from the moment of independence. Material losses in Polish hunting during that period were valued at over PLN 300 million. Post-war period. Practically to this day, all hunters continue to work hard and to overcome further problems. It is worth noting that thanks to the Polish hunter our animals and our national hunting were rebuilt. The hunting law has been a great support to hunters, and in the eyes of many experts from the world of science, it is considered to be a model legal act, especially in the natural aspect. Sokolnice. Before the partitions of Poland, our falconry was one of the greatest in the world. Unfortunately, the killers completely destroyed it and it was destroyed. Only after about 150 years, in 1973 it was recreated by acts of the enthusiasts, among others. from my voivodship, from the Forest Technique in Tuchola, from Czempina and Poznań. To this day, still living co-founders of modern falconry recall the accusations made to them at that time. They asked how they could introduce noble relics of the past in a socialist state. The persistence of these people and their successors led not only to the restoration of this field of hunting as our national tradition, but also allowed, thanks to breeding falcon methods, to recreate in Poland the natural population of the hawk. As you know, Polish falconists are also working on restoring the population of the front eagle. Let us not disturb them in this work. Other practical use of falconry is the protection of airports, both civil and military, the protection of orchards, mainly cherries, etc. Are we supposed to destroy all of this, just as the possessors did in the past? Let us defend what is ours, Polish. Another thing, referring to different demands from environmentalists. The strange thing is that representatives of these environments only exist in Warsaw or above all in Warsaw. In the Sejm, Ministry of the Environment And on various spectacular pickets. Somehow you can't see them directly in the field, when you solve other important problems, where constructively, not critically, they would speak out. E.g. as regards the reconstruction of the population of the European beaver, migratory falcon, hare, partridges and other birds threatened by civilization. I think a typical example of this can be the following fact. When in 1981 the first beavers were boarded in the Gostynin-Włocławski park, no one from the park and from among the environmentalists participated, but on the contrary, they took a waiting position. When the beavers began to reproduce, none other than this park has published many publications about this species, not to mention the fact that the beaver was there because of the hunter. In view of the comments from the PZŁ, there has always been the same answer: we cannot show in our publications that hunters protect beavers because it conflicts with the idea of nature conservation, because no one will understand that hunters who shoot animals can still protect them. And the situation continued until the beavers began to do damage. At that time, all those reporting this damage to the park received a reply that they had to report to hunters with this problem. With regard to environmentalists and supporting their so-called "greens." celebrities I'm not gonna name names here. It is worth quoting the words of the bishop of my diocese, his excellency, the doctor of habilitation philosophy, the bishop of Professor Bronisław Dembowski, who in his homily delivered on October 18, 1996 in Ciechocinek said: "As you know, I value all people, I value people who pity animals, but I am afraid of people who pity animals and do not pity people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u343	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not sure whether the law we are dealing with is the most important law for Poland today, but since it has already come to us, it is necessary to take care of it. I come from a family that has, you can say, going back to time immemorial As far as documentation is concerned, hunting traditions are somewhere in the 14th century, and on a scale that is difficult to imagine at all. But it also seems that times just change a little bit. This tradition is a beautiful tradition when you look at it from a distance, but when you look closer to it, maybe it's like this. Beautiful isn't. And it must also be said that in many countries around the world, various elements of this tradition, centuries-old tradition, are also subject to various kinds of restrictions. The English introduced a number of restrictions on the extremely cruel ways of hunting, e.g. without the use of weapons, where dogs bite different animals. Spaniards limit And I think it's only a matter of time before they limit bullfighting. Or bulls. I think we're facing a similar task, too. First of all, there is a question that many people have already said about it. How much hunting is really necessary. It used to be, because it was just a way to get food, and today the role of hunting is primarily to regulate the number of animals. And I think, regardless of the fact that we have a bill ahead of us today, and we need to make a decision on it. Perhaps it is worth considering how this should be done. But I also think, without being a specialist on this matter... I hear various statements that various kinds of problems with the excess of certain animals are sometimes caused by not only hunters, who have either fed in the past or are feeding today or affecting the elimination of natural enemies of certain animals. How much truth is there, I don't know, but I'm sure this problem exists and this problem needs to be dealt with. And someone probably has to do it, and let even hunters do it. But it must be said that this should be done within a limited framework also of our changing, increasing sensitivity. I am of the opinion that the law that we have before us is a wise compromise, also with regard to those amendments which the Sejm has made, well, one can say, by tightening up the government project. I think that the Minister's view that these amendments made by Members are worth supporting is also proof of some far-reaching reasonableness in this regard. That's why I'm openly saying this. I do not like the amendments proposed by the committees, which, you can say, are moving backwards in the regulations that have been adopted so far. In particular, I would like to say that I am strongly opposed to restoring the possibility of training animals... dogs and falcons using live animals. I don't know if this can be done differently or not, but I think the time for this kind of practice has just passed. Our sensitivity does not allow such practices to be applied, the sensitivity of a large part of people... And here I think we should all limit ourselves to throwing epithets to people who have this level of sensitivity rather than another level of sensitivity. I'm neither the enemy of hunters nor the celebrity who joined these enemies, but it's just my sensitivity that tells me that this is something that shouldn't be allowed. When it comes to the participation of children or young people in hunting Whether it's the shooting or the watching of penitentiary or the feasting, it seems to me that we can still raise our children without contact with this kind of tradition or custom. If they want to be hunters as adults, they will become hunters, but the times when you had to prepare your son to be able to track the game and then kill it, they really just passed. It's not like you have to do this for the survival of the human race. As for the element or thread that was raised here, the constitutionality of such a restriction, it is quite obvious that parents have the right to raise their children according to their own values, but there are limits to that. Well, undoubtedly bad things parents should not teach their children and what reduces their sensitivity, their moral state, which affects their health, including mental health, should be avoided. Finally, it is a matter of distance from the houses where hunting can take place. Ladies and gentlemen, these 150 m is not a question of sphere or spruce, which arrives at the window, just again some kind of, I would say, moral order. Those who live in these homes should not be forced to blindfold their children who want to protect them from the sight of animals being killed or wounded. And these 150 meters to where these things should be happening, that's just an absolute minimum. This is certainly some kind of compromise, but it seems that denying at all the need to distance hunting from places where people live is not only a matter of security, but also a certain moral order. And the question of the opposition of landowners or real estate owners to hunting. I have to say that the records that are in the bill are, I would say, extremely soft. First of all, this objection... here I'm a little relieved by what the Minister said was that there's no way of refusing to take this objection into account, but that objection, according to the bill, must be justified. And I wonder what the reason for that is. No, that's the way it is written in the Act. The person who opposes is expected to be. But I repeat: I am a little reassured by the Minister's words that this is, say, some kind of formality which, however, leads inevitably to the fact that there will be no hunting here. True, there is an exception to individual hunting and, frankly, I don't like it either. But I repeat: it seems to be just some kind of compromise. And finally reaching the end I would like to say that I strongly want to support the amendment by Senator Rotnicka on the issue of periodic health control of hunters. Well, I think that since other gun owners have to study every five years whether they can still have weapons, it's a good idea to apply this rule to hunters, and it doesn't matter at all or anything... Well, it's not an act of any hostility towards the elderly, even the advanced age, because if someone here is a 77-year-old shooter, he's probably going through this research without a problem and he's going to be able to continue hunting. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We are probably approaching the end of today's debate on the amendment of the Hunting Law. Through the Sejm, the Senate, a wave of discussion has passed through Poland, what the Polish model of hunting should look like, what needs to be done, what needs to be changed, so that it can be hunted and kept the population at the right level. It is such an interesting situation in our country that we are discussing hunting, hunters, about the Polish Hunting Union as if an organization which is in conflict with the interests of the Polish state or Polish citizens. It seems to me that nothing is more wrong, because it is the Polish state, it is the Treasury of the State, it is the Minister of the Environment who in some way orders the tasks of the Polish Union of Łowiecki, who orders the task of hunters to do for their own money, in his own consecrated time. It can be said that for some it may be passion, for some it is the result of the need for contact with nature. .. responsibilities to some extent. For some, it is also an honorable duty. As Senator Józef Zając mentioned here, it is very nice for him to go to the woods, feed the game, see what the state of the population of particular species looks like. And that contributes to the fact that the feeling of such a hunter, such a person is better, is contact with nature. And that also allows you to shape your citizenship. Today we approach the subject of changes in hunting law with great emotions. I don't think it's necessary. There were calls here for us to discuss more on a substantive rather than an emotional level. And often this discussion here, I think, missing or missing. Because we have to pay attention to the fact that if we looked at the chronicles of accidents, we would definitely notice that more people are suffering damage and are losing their lives, dying because of road accidents due to the collision with wild animals than for example. from a hunting ball that was accidentally or carelessly fired by a hunter. These cases, as far as traffic accidents are concerned, seem to me to be much more. I had a few myself. Well, I've had at least two road events like this when it comes to clashing with an animal. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider what to do to allow the Polish Hunter Union to allow hunters who engage their time, their money, their resources... After all, no one here pays a hunter to provide a service to the Treasury on behalf of the State Treasury, because that is what it needs to be called. The hunter somehow provides a service to the Treasury through the fact that he maintains the status of a specific population according to laws, it can also be said that according to the guidelines of old age, because he has to agree in the old age the size of the shooting of a particular species of game, to determine the hunting region. And that's what's contributing to this... This work is carried out socially, often with the involvement of its own financial resources. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it would certainly be necessary to really think about how the Polish Hunting Union should function, how hunting wheels should function. Today, the Polish Hunting Union and hunting circles operate on the basis of association. The hunting circle has legal personality; it gets this, you can say, under the Associations Act. The hunting wheel is an association, it chooses the board. So it is an association, while the Polish Hunting Union operates on the basis of association of associations. And we should also consider the impact that district hunters or district presidents have on the functioning of a given hunting circle. It goes on for example. to draw attention to possible irregularities, to decisions taken in a particular hunting circle, it is about what should be done so that what is happening in a given hunting circle can be properly influenced. On the protection of children and young people from violence, from certain pathologies, from the so-called. Epating dead animals was very much said here. I would like us to look at this holistically, which is also in such a context that today's law gives the possibility of allowing a 16-year-old to work in a slaughterhouse. Today a 16-year-old can work, for example. in a slaughterhouse of cattle, in a slaughterhouse of rabbits or in a slaughterhouse of pigs. He can work there, but there is a problem with his participation in the hunt. Well, that's the kind of decision we're gonna make. And that in some way will also be political decisions, for which we will all take responsibility here. But it would be good if we looked at it in a holistic way and didn't look at it in some selective way, I think. There was also talk of the beginnings of human life. It began with the fact that man, in order to survive, had to deal with and collect and hunt. There was no other way to obtain food than hunting and gathering. And that was the beginning, so to speak, of human functioning. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that hunters associated in hunting circles or in the Polish Hunting Union are responsible for carrying out animal inventory. There is a method of counting a given population of animals only so that the population of the game is maintained so that it does not pose a threat to itself that there are no too many foxes, no wild boars, no deer, no elk, so that the condition of the population is appropriate enough for us, as humans, to be able to function reasonably. Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk a lot here, for example. about animal training. As a human being, as a person, I am... I don't think there's anybody here, including hunters, who'd be for bullying animals. This hunter in his ethics, in his attitude, has included e.g. an obligation to refer to the so-called. A gunshot and make this animal not suffer. And for that he needs a dog, a second animal is needed to help him find such a gunshot and reduce the possible suffering of the animal. All this is so that the hunt, acquisition and performance of tasks commissioned by the State Treasury, by the State, is as humane as possible, and makes the most of its contribution to ensuring that this model of hunting, which has been developed in Poland over the centuries, is properly perceived, respected and respected among citizens. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to draw attention to the fact that each decision involves a certain reaction and has some effect. And I want to believe that these changes in the bill will contribute to giving an opportunity and a hunter and Polish citizens to be protected from all kinds of threats related to whether they are overpopulation of certain animal species or... And that hunting will be carried out safely, actually and will contribute to the fact that Polish citizens will feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u347	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To conclude almost today, you can say this debate on the law on amending the law of the Hunting Law and some other laws... There aren't many of these changes, because hunting law is a little wider than that... We only change certain elements here, but the hunting law remains mostly the way it was. If we wanted to discuss the new law, we would probably have to work on a new model for a very long time in the Seym and in the Senate. But, as we know, the main objective was to bring the law into line with the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. That was the main reason and the basic reason. 1 April is the deadline by which the Court's judgment should already be implemented. Of course, this discussion in the Seym has been going on for many, many years. I would like to remind you that it was not too long before we changed the hunting law to the expectations of farmers when this country was supposed to be involved in financing the compensation of hunting damages. There were even amounts secured, there was about PLN 100 million, which were to be dealt with by the provincial offices, agricultural chambers. It was such an approach to farmers who expected the problem to be solved, that these hunting damages would be reliably valued, that it would be the game of the State Treasury, which is being financed and that this would be possible... Because hunting wheels aren't always able to pay fair compensation for their losses, because they don't have the funds to keep the amount of game that is that destroys... And those deregulations that should be, when it comes to the size of the herd, unfortunately have not been carried out... For different reasons. We know what the state of our Polish Hunting Union is, and especially some circuits, hunting circles. Some are very efficient, others are... Different. And there have already been several points, deregulations that would improve it so that the hunting wheels actually function. These announcements, there were many proposals. Various organisations, the unions reported them, said that it was necessary to approach the hunting law very radically and to introduce a regulation that will actually improve it as farmers expect. Well, as you can see, it must have come to this point where we meet in the Senate today, and we say: these compromises have been worked out. The government has made itself clear. And at the committee meeting, and here the minister said it was called. The compromise that... the hunters and hunters were involved, and those who care about animals, we talk about environmentalists, we talk about these animal lovers and we talk about farmers. This compromise is supposed to have been concluded, but, as with any compromise, there are many dissatisfied groups. Well, if there's a compromise, a good compromise, that means no one's happy. It's the right thing to say. That there really is no one happy with this bill. As we can see, colleagues who are hunters and who are speaking, express the voices of hunters, believe that this tradition needs to be cultivated, that new generations need to be raised. And I'm not surprised they say that because they've done it for so many years and they want to do it. But I think what they're saying out loud right now is what's written first, or breeding. We farmers grow. I also believe that hunters have a duty to care for breeding, the so-called. wild breeding of the national game and, as we have heard in the statements, they have an obligation to feed the game at a time when it is necessary that this game does not die. That's what this is all about. After all, we see how we encourage everyone, when we see huge frosts and snows, to feed the ducks so that they can put up the feeders. Well, hunters put sanders, put hay somewhere in those sanders or spread grain and other things to keep this game alive, because if it snows, you can't find anything. And we farmers have a problem, too, because if there's a lot of snow, if there's a lot of frost, then at this point our orchards are being attacked by this game and we don't have any orchards. If they're not fenced, then, to be honest, there's a very big problem with our orchards. The orchards must stow. Or let's say here... So there's got to be a balance. There must be balance, and we would like to see this balance as farmers and also as a society, so that we can see as much game as possible. 'Cause everyone in the woods wants to see game. He wouldn't want that game out there. Because it's nice to see a deer in a field, but it's unpleasant for farmers to see such flocks that 60 deer go that even 100 deer go. They're shaving so much that there's nothing. And no one wants to pay for it. It's shaved, there's no... And I'm not talking about so-called anymore. geese that destroy rape. And there's no rape at all. They fucked, they flew, and we farmers don't even get paid for it. So the state has a duty to ensure that the damage that arises... The game is state-owned, as we have already said, and therefore there is a duty. And if, now, this regulation that's being proposed here... I hope that the assessment, as the Minister has said, will be more honest with the participation of the third entity, which is the local government, which will participate by its delegated persons. I hope it's real, real. I'm just worried that if they really value it, the hunting wheels won't rain. 'Cause at the moment, they got along a lot: okay, we get it, you don't have any money. And if they do now, the others won't be able to pay. And won't the board have a duty to pay when the wheel falls? Will the Polish Hunting Union really have money to pay? For what? That's for a national animal. All I have to worry about is what we used to say... Shouldn't it be noted that the State should be involved... if this threatens the safety of hunting circles and the Polish Hunting Union? We've raised this case many times before. Life will show whether these changes will give farmers real compensation, whether the hunting circles will actually carry out, whether the Polish Hunting Union will suffer losses and will do so by paying these hunting damages. But the best mechanism will be if we farmers expect such regulation of the amount of game that it does not threaten us and destroy our fields. And here we need the action of hunters. And that's what we expect. We are counting on farmers to cooperate with hunters and that, however, this population will not be excessive and there will be no excessive damage. A very important issue, which is at the moment, which is very much farmers tormenting, which, you might say, is threatening a disaster, that is African swine fever. He's called by the vector most here, showing... by the wild. And I'd like to draw your attention. I already talked about this at the previous meeting. That the model of the fight against African swine fever developed by the Spanish who fought this disease for 30 years... They said if we leave the wilds alone, they'll all die and the disease disappears. That didn't work either. The question is, is it better to leave the animals and let them all destroy the virus? Maybe it's a method, too. Let all the wild boars fall. And right now we see, now we discover, we find as many as 50, 100 dead boars in one cluster. It shows that this virus is in control and destroys so many of the animals that are close to each other. They're coming, they're looking, we're paying for it, we're spending money to find these wild boars, the military's involved. Now, as I remember correctly, more than 1,500 wild boars have been found in most of the dead due to African fever, perhaps not all of them, but mostly. That's the information we have. This is therefore a serious challenge and farmers expect cooperation to reduce the state of the population. There are special laws which we have passed, and not so long ago we have passed, about the so-called. It's a sanitary blast. Here veterinarians will have the right to decide on this sanitary blast and the population will be reduced no longer to 0.5 per square kilometer, and to 0.1. So these are significant actions. Of course, there are also new actions. Maybe they'll work out, maybe they won't. It was invented that this African plague should not go any deeper into Poland, namely the construction of a fence on the eastern border, it can be said, from Ukraine through Belarus to Lithuania. Well, that's what the government wants to spend 240 million on, if I've heard it right. This is a powerful challenge. Well, there are different voices in the discussion about whether it will provide... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Therefore, my request is that we say together that this law, which was adopted by the government, proposed in the Seym version, with our amendments, mainly to the committee, with legislative amendments... Well, the part is committee, but among these are mostly the proposals of the Legislative Office. And my request is a request to support these amendments, because the government has made it clear that these legislative amendments, which have been tabled, meet, serve better regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u349	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... [[Senator Pekkis.]] You're still Senator Pekkis, aren't you? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened very carefully to this debate, but I lacked a few things that are a problem and which are not discussed. Here's the first thing. If, in fact, hunters care so well for the well-being of nature, what happened to the hares? This is the first case. If you actually... Minister, this is a request. If this is the group to take care of the welfare of the game, then let them answer the question: what happened to the hares in Poland? Until recently, there were a lot of them. I remember when I was a kid, it wasn't a field where the hares wouldn't run in the morning. It's gone now. The second thing I wasn't told about at all... just a minute, 'cause there's something here... it's okay. The second issue is the closed nature of hunting circles. My office in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu has been registered for a few months, a man who is passionate about hunting and belongs to a circle somewhere in Poland, because they have accepted it, but unfortunately he cannot ask for it. And we can't either. I asked as senator. I asked my colleagues to ask. So that the wheel would let him... He's a wealthy man, so he'd be able to buy such a special pulpit as much as they want. But they don't want it anymore. These wheels are closed, elite, and that's wrong. Because what's it doing? We have a specific case. I can give you a name, a name, I don't have a problem with it, he's okay with it. The case of a particular man who wants very much, whose parents cherished these traditions, and he was forbidden. I completely do not understand why this association works and why these wheels are of such a nature, they are so closed. It's so tiny, but elementary. If anyone ever wants to take care of this, I'd be very grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u351	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been made in writing by Senator Rotnicka and Senator Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: No.]] No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an e-prescription. The text of the Act is contained in print No 749 and the report of the Commission In print No 749 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present the report of the Senate Health Committee on 1 March 2018 on the Law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an e-prescription. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Mr. Marshal, High Senate, what is this e-prescription? They say we're all kind of patients, and we know what the prescription looks like. The e-recipe is actually one of the elements that are part of the electronic compilation, analysis and provision of digital resources about Medical Events. It's a long name, less we can call it platform P1. It is a platform that facilitates patient handling and facilitates access to medical data while at the same time speeding up the delivery of prescriptions by the patient. Let me briefly describe how this e-prescription will work in practice. Any qualified medical professional will be able to issue and digitally sign a prescription that will be introduced into the electronic system. The patient will receive a printout of the prescription, which will show all the information needed for its implementation, including the access code and so-called. The key. Interestingly, the e-recipe will also be available in mobile form, i.e. in the form of e-mails or text messages. Just show that prescription in the pharmacy and implement it. You may also choose to set up an online patient account so that you will not need to print a prescription to buy a medicine at your pharmacy. What are the benefits to the patient of introducing an e-prescription? First of all, we will eliminate the eternal problem of the so-called. illegible prescriptions. Maybe it's a little better at the moment, it's not as bad as it used to be, because the prescription is clearly displayed by computers, but it has often been so that the doctor wrote the prescription in a very illegible way, which made the patient have to go back from the pharmacy to the doctor to correct this prescription. It will also reduce the risk of an abnormal drug being given by the pharmacist. Patients will be able to obtain a prescription without having to go directly to their clinic or to their family doctor. They'll be able to contact him electronically or by phone. The doctor will issue such a prescription This applies especially to chronically ill people and the patient, without having to visit a doctor and clinic, will be able to implement such a prescription in the pharmacy. I think it'll save a lot of time and a doctor and a patient. In addition, we can make such a prescription in several pharmacies. In one pharmacy we can get one medicine, and if there is no other medicine, you can get it in another pharmacy. In addition, the dosage information provided on this desk will be clearly and clearly defined. Another of the advantages that are associated with the introduction of e-prescription is that the patient and actually also medical personnel It will have access to the history of the prescriptions issued, which will increase the quality and safety of the treatment, and the treatment process itself will be better coordinated. Mr. Marshal, the Senate, during the committee's work, questions were raised concerning inter alia. the difficulties of older people implementing these prescriptions, but it seems that, contrary to appearances, the introduction of e-prescriptions will make it easier for older people to access medicines because each patient will be able to get so-called. a printout of information that will contain all that is contained on the reception desk, i.e. the name and dosage of the medicine. This printout doesn't have to be left in the pharmacy when he's leaving his prescription now, but he can take it with him. This printout will show what medicines have been prescribed and how you should take these medicines. Now it happens that doctors write these dosages on pieces of paper, often containing advertising of some drug from a pharmaceutical company. There will also be the possibility of accessing the Internet account so that you can check whether a person, especially an elderly person, has bought medicines. There were also questions about piloting during the committee's deliberations. We know that such piloting is now taking off in two cities, in Skierniewice and in Siedlce. We know that it will start with patients on May 1st. And, as the Minister said during the committee's deliberations, the first proposals will be at the end of the holiday or at the beginning of September. The last topic that was discussed during the committee's deliberations was the so-called. telemedicine, that is, what is our future and from which we certainly will not escape, namely prescribing medicines, especially medicines for chronic diseases, without the need for personal appearance in the office. I personally believe that this is a good step, because many times patients report to a doctor only to prescribe such medicine for chronic illness, and then time loses also the patient, and the doctor in the clinic. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the Health Commission is asking for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u353	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u354	Yes, Mr. Marshal, as long as I've waited, the question will be answered. Minister, I have a question: are we ready to introduce these e-prescriptions? Why am I talking about this? 'Cause there's an example. such a system, which is called CEPiK 2.0, and so far people curse, at least in some counties, the way this system works when it comes to registration of cars or driving licences. Tell me... Because, as I understand it, this system will consist of 3 elements: software at the doctor, software at the pharmacy and links between them. Will these 3 elements be compatible and will there be problems with issuing these e-recepts?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u355	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u356	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, in response to the senator's question, I would like to elaborate a little on what Senator Kraska has said about the fact that we are just getting ready. And that is why we are preparing this law to pilot this implementation, which we feel will be such a controlled attempt to determine whether these are the issues that you have asked about will not ultimately be a problem. I would also like to reassure you that we have such a planned development of this system, the course of this implementation, that we start with the implementation in pharmacies, which are probably the best-informed actors in the health system, and we give another year to implement it in health care facilities. Because we are extremely interested in this implementation, the implementation of these solutions is just calm, harmonious and that such perturbations, which you spoke of in the case of the CEPiK system, do not take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u357	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grodzki was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! There is no doubt that the progressive computerization of our lives is an irreversible trend, and it is good that the Ministry of Health is following this trend as well. But it seems that, in view of the fact that it does not happen as in our country, that everyone wanted to do well, and that, as it turned out, special emphasis should be placed on ensuring that in such a sensitive area as human health, this system is implemented as efficiently as possible. And here is full agreement, although the experience of life says that the introduction of such complex matter will always cause some cuts, which even Senator Czerwiński mentioned. The point is to keep them as small as possible. We had a very interesting meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, at which, among other things, we discussed this. There was a speech. It turns out that young doctors and young patients have no problem with this, an average generation of doctors, an average generation of patients already has a problem, and an older generation of doctors and patients may have a big problem with this. Therefore, if I may appeal It should be considered whether this pilotage, which is very well that it is introduced, is sufficient whether it should be carried out by the end of the year. In my view, particular emphasis should be placed on training engagement. Because these trainings are taking place, but in such a little patchwork mode and some people are trained, some are not, some are good, some are, as I realized, poorly. And the third case. However, it would be worth considering whether some resources should be allocated, even in the next year's budget, to equipment or to modernization of computer equipment, IT equipment, the quality and age of which vary in different medical centres, not to mention patient equipment. And these are the topics that will probably come up. In general, I hope that unlike other major IT projects, this project will be better done. However, I have doubts about breaking a certain dogma in connection with telemedicine. Namely, the record disappears... means there is also a personal examination of the patient about writing a prescription, even for medications in chronic diseases, without personal examination of the patient. I happen to have an opportunity at Mayo Clinic to observe a rather dramatic case. Mayo Clinic, a great hospital, had a patient from Hawaii after pneumonectomy and how the doctor communicated with him. They even looked at the screen and pointed out that the patient was pale. The patient says it's color regulation on the TV that's not like that. But actually, the doctor was suggesting to him. I've seen it. To go to a doctor, to do some basic tests. In fact, he wasn't particularly eager, he underestimated the condition. The day after that, he died. And if it wasn't for the fact that this conversation was written down that this doctor could defend himself, it would be a big problem. I quote this not to criticize telemedicine, although it is a branch constantly developing and probably full of imperfections, only to eliminate the old medical dogma that the doctor makes a decision after personal examination of the patient... Now that we're walking away from this dogma, In addition to IT and educational activities, we should also take legal action to ensure that the system is complementary and complete, and that the responsibility of a doctor who happens to be such a story as a great thoracologist from Mayo Clinic, Dr. Stephen Cassivi... The point is that the law protects the interests and the patient and the doctor well. It's all ahead of us, things are underway. We're more at the beginning of this road than closer to the end of it, and we don't know what technology will lead us to. We can monitor a lot of parameters from as simple as heart rate to blood sats or blood glucose levels. That's what needs to be kept in mind. I think all of us who are here care about the well-being of the sick. This is our most important indicator and indicator of our operation. In conclusion, as an opposition, we will not submit amendments to the bill. We believe that it is worthy of support. Please read our comments, Minister, as an expression of concern to ensure that the introduction of the law takes place in a manner that is as peaceful as possible and without any harm to both patients and those who are on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u359	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Computerization is something that we deal with practically everywhere. Paradoxically, there is talk of failures in the history of computerization of the health care system, although medicine belongs to a group of locomotives in the field of electronics use. Practically speaking, it is difficult to imagine modern medicine without all kinds of IT equipment, as well as IT systems. When it comes to computerisation of the health system, Poland is not the only country that has a lot of problems with it. Several Western European countries have spent enormous resources on computerisation of health systems and are basically difficult to say that in any country this would be a clear success. Examples can be multiplied. Such an extreme example of huge and badly spent money on computerization is the British example. There are moderate systems in some countries. It is given e.g. the Austrian system as a system that goes in the right direction. The Scandinavian countries are undoubtedly very successful here. Poland, you can say, is not against this background A lot late. Unfortunately, the system that we call platform P1, i.e. the Electronic Platform for Collection, Analyzing and Sharing Digital Resources about Medical Events, and which should have been operating in accordance with initial assumptions long ago, could have been termed a single word until recently: failure. And it was. In December 2015, after I became Minister of Health, it seemed that we would have to return nearly PLN 500 million to the European Union because the system was I'll tell you colloquially. It's completely collapsed. Even though we took so much money, there was no chance of implementing the project. However, an extraordinary effort has been made to reduce the risk. The European Commission has agreed to a new opening and this new opening is now taking place. Everything shows that thanks to the slightly different methods of implementation adopted, above all so-called. methods for agile work on platform P1, i.e. the implementation of government administration forces, above all the Centre for Health Information Systems, and through the use of additional EU funds this will be achieved. Indeed, 2018 appears in the computerization of health care well, because it is not only an electronic prescription, but also, as all points out, soon electronic referral, electronic release. As part of Platform P1, you can say that the culmination of these IT activities will be functions such as critical data and finally the possibility of exchanging medical documentation between providers. This is very important and you can say that this is the final. In the next few years this will be implemented slowly. In addition, it will be an electronic exemption in the context of the IT environment, which will be implemented as early as July this year. Why is electronic prescription so important? Well, it's just a better way to give a prescription, there's no doubt about it. Mr Kraska spoke about readability, but it is only one element. I have to say that already today many doctors issue prescriptions, you can say, from the computer and it is, in short, much easier. This is easier not only because the systems associated with this are friendly, but also simply because, as a rule, office software, which is intended to be an environment in which electronic prescriptions will be issued, is accompanied by various types of therapeutic decision support systems and this is undoubtedly beneficial. It is also easier to remember what has already been done, and during subsequent medical visits information about the issued and completed prescriptions is very important for assessing the patient's health and subsequent therapeutic decisions. So the electronic prescription is simply better than the paper recipe. By the way, I'd like to say... Because the senator was just worried about whether they could handle it, not young, not middle-aged, but older doctors and patients. Well, once again, I very strongly stress: in my opinion, and I say this on the basis of practice, as a doctor who has been issuing prescriptions for many years, although not so going into an electronic repository, but simply from a computer... My experience is that this is definitely simpler in this thicket of various kinds of issues that need to be taken into account when making this type of decision, which is to issue a prescription. Because it's better to talk about giving a prescription at all than writing a prescription. This writing is, you can say, a process that can be performed by anyone. And issuing a prescription is also a decision as to how much what is prescribed does not interfere with other medicines prescribed to the patient, how it has to be diagnosed, also associated diagnosis, etc., etc. The second element that needs to be seen in the context of this law is telemedicine. And you can say that here is a very shy step towards telemedicine, because it is said that a prescription without seeing a patient will only be displayed in the case of chronic diseases, as part of a continuation, and that is only when there is something in the documentation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think... I am definitely in favour of this solution, which is in the bill, because it is, you can say, the first step. But I have serious doubts and a request to the Minister that, so to speak, the next step is to consider the statutory definition of what we call a medical examination. Because, in my opinion, it's out of the question to issue a prescription without a medical examination. It shouldn't be out of the question. But the question is, how do we understand medical examination? The medical examination traditionally, and in my opinion the recipe should be supplemented by this, consists of a medical interview, i.e. what we can obtain simply by verbal means, but also for example. written, from the study under consideration, i.e. done directly, well, you can say, senses, manually, and from additional studies. And it is up to the doctor to decide what kind of examination he should perform. In the case of mental illness, this study can be reduced actually only to an interview study. And so on. In Scandinavian countries psychiatrists today operate using the internet and contacting patients, with some patients who do not want to come to visit, only this way. Here you can say this: this is a personal, personal examination in the sense that the doctor examined the patient personally and did not find out that someone had examined him. In other cases, e.g. When we're dealing with a suspected appendicitis, it's hard to imagine we're gonna do a test with some kind of teletransmission. That's not gonna happen. But even if we have an example. suspected leukemia, it is actually less necessary to talk, physical examination is almost unnecessary, mostly the result of laboratory testing. But it should be seen by a doctor too. And you could say this: if you divide the test into these three parts, it's always going to be a personal examination. In my opinion, it is not entirely correct to refer to the information that results from medical records. Because this information, if that's for example. the result of the laboratory examination is not information, it is simply part of the patient's examination, appropriate to the patient's situation. And I think that further work should go in this direction, especially since I know that the Act on Doctor and Dentist Competitions will be updated. So this is where we should go to sort this out, not just to make an exception for telemedicine, but to extend the principle that patients are being studied. He's a doctor based on the so-called. evidence-based medicine, i.e. the appropriateness of the action in a given situation and the appropriate response, should decide how the patient should be examined, whether he should benefit from all three of these elements of the study, or only one or two of them. And I think that's a point on the margin of this law. It would be worth it to go in this direction. Finally, the final remark. I think we're getting to the point where telemedicine should actually find its place in both laws. Actually, he's already here. As well as in products purchased by the payer, and that is the problem at this point in time. For the time being, there are only a few exceptions, but in this direction only a note should be made: while respecting the principle that only such benefits, which are documented as effective and safe, can be accepted. Because I have to say that this principle is often cited, i.e. And this time I use the term "prescription," not "prescription" for patients with chronic disease. repetition, as an example of the possibility of using or writing these prescriptions without seeing the patient, is not the best, because also a patient with hypertension, diabetes and such diseases should always be examined in some way, even to find out what the results are, how he feels and so on. And that's what you can do, for example. over the Internet, over the phone, over Skype... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...and various other methods of teletransmission. The Act is undoubtedly a good first step towards applying IT in the healthcare sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u361	Thank you very much. Senator Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u362	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's been a while. I think that every one of us in this room has a mobile phone, more or less extensive, and there are data that at the moment there are almost 6 billion mobile phones active in the world, which is a huge amount. And there are actually many applications available at the moment, through which we can download a lot of information about the state of our health. I think the near future is that our family doctor gets information not only about our heart rate, pressure, glucose levels and blood saturation, but also about a lot of other data. And sending this data will not interfere with our daily work, our daily rest They will be transmitted remotely to our doctor, who will be able to react in real time to our changing vital parameters. We've talked a lot about telemedicine. This is indeed an inevitable future. But maybe this is not just because the technologies are what we have now, and that they will continue to develop. I think it's forcing a steady increase in the cost of health systems. These costs are growing very clearly and we often fail to keep up with the collection of resources for these purposes. These costs may not be related to technological advances, i.e. new technologies that go into medicine, often very modern and at the same time very expensive. I think that the main reason for the increase in these costs of health systems is undoubtedly demography. We know that societies are getting old. At the moment, it is determined that at the age of sixty-five it is about 17%. our population. Demographers say that in 2030, it's not that far ahead. The number of people over the age of sixty-five will be 24%. It is also said that health systems, or actually chronic diseases, are used almost 70% measures that affect these systems. The fact that we are introducing an e-prescription, e-release, e-direction, that is, we are entering this new IT market, is an inevitable thing that will, on the one hand, make life easier for the patient and the doctor and, on the other, will reduce the cost of our system in the future. Not only the costs, but also... these doctors. Unfortunately, there is not as many as we would like, but thanks to telemedicine contact with a doctor can be much more frequent and faster. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I think that this first step towards the future, full computerization of Polish medicine, should be done and adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u363	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u364	The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the first reading of the draft resolution on cooperation between Poland and Hungary in the European Union will take place tomorrow at 8.15 in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws will take place tomorrow, i.e. on 15 March, at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on proposals submitted at the 50th Senate meeting for the Law on bailiffs will take place tomorrow at 8.45 in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-14-senat-58-1.u365	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I hereby announce a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. I would like to remind you that tomorrow we will begin with the examination of paragraph 12, which is from the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the memory of Adam Giedrys on the 100th anniversary of his birthday. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 18]]
