ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959. The text of the act is contained in print No 901, and the report of the committee In prints Nos 901 A and 901 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law was dealt with by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on 11 July this year. and asks the Senate to adopt this law without amendment. The Act agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe. This Third Protocol, which will be ratified by your President, if, of course, the High House agrees, concerns the status of the Council of Europe Development Bank, the legal status, property status and certain privileges enjoyed by that bank, following the diplomatic corps. The discussion was attended by Senator Klein, who was asking questions about the operation of this bank. The current Minister explained that the bank in Poland has very limited activities, mainly in the field of infrastructure, finances local governments. It was founded in 1956 as the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund, later under the current name it was transformed and will develop its activities in Poland. Poland has committed itself to ratifying this protocol, hence this bill. I will repeat once again: the committee unanimously requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I realized how controversial this point is... Two rapporteurs to this point, I think, is an exaggeration. There was no discussion at my committee meeting. They were all in favour. Please accept this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Luke Piebiak and Minister Piotr Nowak. Would any of you like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up in Strasbourg on 6 March 1959 The Protocol was intended to establish the legal status of the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund under the auspices of the Council of Europe. Then, on 8 June 1993, this fund was transformed into the Council of Europe's Social Development Fund to finally change its name to the Council of Europe Development Bank, which is still in operation today, on 28 June 1999. On the basis of the article. III d The Statute of the Council of Europe Social Development Fund The Republic of Poland confirmed its intention to accede to the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe as soon as possible. At the same time, Poland expressed its intention to apply any legal arrangements resulting from the content of this Protocol in respect of the property, assets and activities of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe, as well as its intention to grant its authorities and personnel legal status resulting from the content of the Protocol before the protocol is formally bound up. The most important provisions of the protocol are several areas. First of all, the status of the Council of Europe Development Bank. The Protocol confirms that the Council of Europe Development Bank has legal personality, has the capacity to conclude contracts, acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property, to appear before courts. The Bank for Development of the Council of Europe's activities, activities and agreements shall be governed by the Protocol, the Statute of the Bank and the provisions adopted on the basis of the Statutes. The Protocol deals with exemptions from taxes, customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on entry and export in respect of items intended for official use. With regard to privileges and immunities, the Protocol provides for the authorities of a bank which enjoy a number of immunities and privileges of a similar scope to those of the diplomatic corps. The Protocol lays down rules for the granting of certain privileges and immunities to the Governor and other officers and in addition cases in which privileges and immunities may be waived. Dear Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to pay particular attention to the multidimensional benefits which the Republic of Poland will enjoy from the conclusion of the protocol. Benefits in the political and security area. The signing of the Protocol and its entry into force are in line with the principles and objectives of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards the Council of Europe. The ratification of this protocol will determine the legal situation of the assets, assets and activities of the Council of Europe Development Bank and the legal status of the bank's authorities and its officers. Benefits in the economic area. Since Poland's accession to the Council of Europe Development Bank in 1998, it approved loans to Polish entities for a total amount of nearly EUR 5 billion. Poland is one of the main borrowers of the bank. The financial instrument of the Council of Europe. Poland belongs to the group of target countries, which are the beneficiaries of around 60 the total volume of loans. Thank you for your attention. On behalf of the Government, I ask the High House to adopt the Act on ratification of the Protocol without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about actually not content, but dates. In 1999, we committed to this ratification, and we are in 2018 19 years old. Could you explain why it took so long? What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, this is indeed a matter that, as it seems, could have been dealt with earlier. From the information I obtained from the leading ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it appears that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs it is time to organize things that have not been done for years, and the time has come for this document, I think, uncontroversial, useful for Poland. And why couldn't it have been done over the course of a dozen years? Probably a lot of people would have to ask that question to their predecessors. Well, maybe it was before, but the previous teams that ran this case over the last dozen years, they probably didn't think it was such a priority to take it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u11	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security, signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 926, and the Commission's reports In the forms 926 A and 926 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took place on 24 July 2018, on the issue of an opinion on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security, signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018. During the committee's deliberations, the purpose and subject of the bill was presented by Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. On 24 January 2018, an agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and Mongolia on social security was signed in Warsaw. Entry into force of the agreement will not be required changes in Polish legislation. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 20 July 2018 and agrees to the ratification of this agreement by the President of the Republic of Poland. So far there have been no legal regulations in the field of social security between Poland and Mongolia. The agreement provides the basis for cooperation and guarantees insurance protection for Polish citizens residing or working in Mongolia, i.e. employees, self-employed persons, including farmers and households, insured by each party to the contract and persons exercising their rights to those insured. The agreement implements international standards in the field of social security and its rules are based on the basic principles of system coordination, i.e. equal treatment, aggregation of insurance periods and preservation of acquired rights. The scope of the contract includes unemployment benefits and benefits from social security and social security for farmers, such as sickness and maternity benefits, pensions, invalidity pensions, survivor's pensions, accidents at work and occupational diseases and funeral allowances. The Agreement respects the general principle of being subject to the legislation of only one State. The legislation applicable is the legislation of the State of the place of work. Social contributions will be paid in accordance with national legislation. The entry into force of the Polish-Mongolian social security agreement provides the Polish and Mongolian insured persons with the benefits of eliminating double payment of social security contributions for the employment concerned or the total lack of insurance coverage for the employment concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the law does not raise any legislative doubts. Following a vote, the Commission unanimously requests that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union considered the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security, signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018, at its last meeting. The Act did not raise any controversy and the committee recommends that the High Senate adopt this ratification without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy and Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Stanisław Swede. Do you want to, Minister... No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 6 May 1993. The text of the Act is contained in print No 927, and the report of the Commission In print No 927 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on mutual agreement and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 6 May 1993, repealed by the Sejm on 20 July 2018. The purpose of the Act was to agree to the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on the change and termination of the Agreement between Poland and the Republic of Estonia on mutual support and protection of investments, drawn up in Warsaw on 6 May 1993, as I mentioned earlier. The Sejm adopted this law at its sixty-seventh meeting on 20 July 2018 on the basis of government submissions. It was a 2669 seym print. The project was the subject of the Parliamentary work of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Commissions did not amend the draft. I, too, kindly ask the High Senate to accept a government presentation in the form prepared by the Government of the Republic of Poland. I would like to say to you that the committee welcomes this submission by unanimity. The committee meeting took place on 24 July 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... [[I'm gonna...]] There's a question, Senator. You're welcome. But I'll finish. ...a mere minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome. Is there any other senators who would like to ask you a question? I don't see any calls. That's probably gonna be one question. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a quick question. This is one of those contracts we've been making lately. But why is there a change in the title? Please note, first there is the word change and then the ending. [[It is because it's...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u19	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u20	Okay, okay, okay, okay, [[That's not the kind of deal we've had before.]] It is a law on the change and termination of the agreement between the Polish People's Republic... [[Well, there's always a first time.]] As I understand it, the conclusion is a change of the existing agreement, Senator. That's how I read it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Why change something that we end up doing anyway?]] But listen... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The withdrawal from the contract is a change of state. It's not a status quo, it's a state change. Hence the title, I presume. But that might have to be asked by the legislators. Maybe the lawyers here have an answer that will satisfy your senator. I understand that this is an important, interesting question, but I don't think it's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u21	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Minister of Enterprise and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, senators can now ask questions that last no longer than a minute, of course relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. So, Minister, I ask you to approach the speaker, because that is our custom. I ask the senator to ask you a question. [[Maciek, take it, go out with Czerwinski for a cigarette.]] [[I don't smoke.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Same simple question: why change something that we end up doing anyway? Unless some of the provisions of this agreement are still in force for a while, and this is what we are changing. I think that would be the only logical explanation. Tell me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u23	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u24	Indeed, the title of the Act contains the words "change and termination' and it is true that the termination of the agreement will terminate the investor safeguard clause, which would continue to apply for another 10 years if the agreement with Estonia were terminated. Well, that's the title. That was the title of all the other... All the laws on BIT agreements with the countries of the European Union that we solve have the title. Therefore, here we have the title of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. Does anyone else have a question? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Colombia and Peru, on the other hand, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 928 and the Commission's reports In print Nos 928 A and 928 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I have the honour to present the opinion of this committee to the Act on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. The purpose of this law is to give Parliament the consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. The Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, of 26 June 2012, known as the Trade Agreement, provides for the possibility of accession of other Member States of the Andean Community. The Trade Agreement sets out the basis and direction for the development of trade and investment relations and cooperation between the European Union and the Andean Community countries. In addition to stimulating trade and investment, the fundamental objective of the Trade Agreement is to ensure respect for fundamental values. The principles of democracy and human rights. The Trade Agreement fulfils the criteria for establishing a free trade area set out in Article XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT 1994, concerning the abolition of duties and other restrictive trade provisions in respect of all trade between the Parties. In addition to customs and tariffs, the Trade Agreement regulates issues relating to the provision of services, establishment and e-commerce. It also contains detailed commitments on mutual market access, inter alia. in the financial, maritime or telecommunications sectors. The Trade Agreement also allows entrepreneurs from the European Union to conduct business activities in Colombia and Peru in manufacturing, energy, mining or mining industries. The Trade Agreement includes, in particular, strengthening the mutual liberalisation of the public procurement market, adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, contributing through the removal of barriers to trade and the development of an environment conducive to investment in the harmonious development and expansion of world trade, commitment to intensify international trade, and promotion of foreign direct investment without lowering or reducing environmental, labour or health and safety standards. The signing of the Protocol of Accession of Ecuador results from the implementation of the strategic objectives of the partnership between the European Union and Latin American and Caribbean countries in Rio de Janeiro in 1999, which envisages strengthening the political, economic and cultural links of the European Union with these countries. Ecuador's accession to the Trade Agreement strengthens the legal framework for the European Union's trade relations with that country and facilitates trade and mutual movement of investment. The Protocol will apply to traders engaged in economic activities, in so far as they participate in trade in goods, the provision of services, the pursuit of economic activities in the Ecuadorian market. Implementation of the Protocol will fully exempt from customs duties imports into Ecuador of industrial and fisheries products originating in the European Union. Ecuador will benefit from full access to the Union market. The European Union will abolish fully the customs duties on fishery products originating in Ecuador and will liberalize 99,9% Agricultural tariff headings and 100% items relating to industrial goods. In the field of public procurement, Ecuador has undertaken to provide the European Union with access to procurement by central and regional institutions. With its accession to the Trade Agreement, Ecuador will participate in the work of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Trade and subcommittees operating under this agreement. This will allow consultations on specific trade problems under specific titles. Since the provisions on exclusive competence of the Republic of Poland as a Member State of the European Union contained in the Protocol relate to matters governed by laws or in cases for which the Constitution requires a law, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) of the Constitution requires ratification with the prior consent of the Act. The Trade Agreement was ratified in the same way. This agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, Official Journal of the EU, after ratification by all Member States of the European Union. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, there weren't any questions at the committee meeting that the senators would have asked. Everything was clear and clear. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation therefore requests the High House to give its consent to the adoption of this law. All the votes were in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Rocki, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to inform you that on 24 July, the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union welcomed this law and recommended that the Senate adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology Jadwiga Emilewicz: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 801 and the committee report In print No 801 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate legislative initiative seeks to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 December 2017, in which the Court held that the restriction only to those persons who have been expropriated, the right to claim the return of immovable property if the purpose of expropriation has not been fulfilled, although that expropriation has been carried out, disregarding the equivalent right which should also be conferred on persons who, in view of the prospect of expropriation, have agreed to the expropriation initiative by the expropriation authorities, consisting in the sale of immovable property by contract rather than expropriation, constitutes an infringement of the Constitution as regards the protection of property rights and the equal treatment of entities which have the same characteristics, i.e. within the scope of Article. 21, Art. 64 Constitutions and Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. That is why we are introducing a regulation that also gives people who have lost their property not as a result of expropriation decisions, but as a result of the conclusion of a notarial contract of voluntary transfer of property rights precisely for the purpose of expropriation purposes, the right to claim the return of such property which they have disposed of, in the event that expropriation targets have not been met. The Act clarifies in detail what these requirements are, must pass a certain time, probably 7 years after the investment was to be carried out and not implemented. I am, of course, in favour of this solution. And the committee also accepted this proposal without reservation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Does a government representative want to... Is there a government representative? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] You are Minister Artur Soboń, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill presented? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate could proceed to the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-fifth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print 802, and the committee's report In print No 802 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 July 2015, in which the Court ruled that the requirement that all co-owners, only all of them, be able to apply for a refund of property which, despite expropriation, was not used for the purpose of that expropriation, infringes the Constitution, as I said earlier, in the protection of property rights, i.e. Art. 22 and 64, and as regards equal treatment of entities in the same legal situation. The regulation provided that when the expropriation concerned several persons who had shares in joint ownership, it was necessary for the claim to return the property to make all such an application. Well, there were often situations that not everyone was interested in getting their property back, and there was a problem, because you had to reach all the way to civil law structures, i.e. those who wanted the property back, had to apply to the court to replace the will of those who didn't want to return it. This led to and extended the proceedings, and increased the costs of this proceeding. And the Court rightly stated that this situation should be absurd, because that is probably how it needs to be defined, changed. Hence our initiative to execute this sentence. Of course, the committee unanimously was in favour of adopting this proposal. This is the solution of all things right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: One sentence.]] One sentence? You're welcome. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Briefly. Firstly, thanks for those 801 and 802 prints which execute the Court's judgments for the Senate's initiative. But, secondly, I would like to say that as a government, we will prepare a solution that we will refer to the Sejm, and I think the High Sejm will be working on a combined government project and senate projects. That is an explanation I owe to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the Senate could now proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-six of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 934, and the committee's report In print No 934 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on the replacement of the Senate Rules of Procedure. The committees at their joint meeting on 25 July 2018 considered the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading and requested adoption without amendment of the draft proposal. High Senate, the amendments proposed in the project take into account the current practice of applying the Senate Rules of Procedure, clarify its rules of procedure and adapt the rules to the current legal situation. The amendment contained in Article. Point 1 of the draft seeks to harmonise the statutory competences of the marshals of the two Chambers as regards the granting of the statutes to the Sejm and Senate clerks. The Act of 15 June 2018 amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator amended the conditions which allow the rules of the Sejm, the Senate and the National Assembly to lay down rules on the reduction of the salary of Members and Senators and the rules on the reduction and loss of the right to a parliamentary diet of Members and Senators. This law introduced a new condition for punishment by a parliamentarian in a flagrant way of peace or order on the premises of the Sejm Office or the Senate Office. The project assumes that the indicated violation of peace or order will be at risk of a reduction in salary or diet by an amount not exceeding half a month's salary or diet for a maximum period of 3 months, as well as a loss of the right to a diet. The authority responsible for punishing the senator will be the Senate Marshal, whose orders will be subject to appeal to the Senate Bureau. It will not be necessary in this case to run out of the Article procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Rules of Procedure. Newly added article. 59 (1) (a) 5 clarifies that it may also be decided by its chairman to keep the deliberations of the committee secret. In accordance with the applicable Article. 59 (1) (a) 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in conjunction with the Rules of Procedure. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, if required by the good of the State, the committee may be held in secret after a resolution has been adopted by the committee. In practice, confidential information may be discussed in committee proceedings within the meaning of the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information. I will give an example of the secret meetings of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. These are information whose unauthorised disclosure would have caused or could have caused damage to the Republic of Poland or would have been adversely affected by its interests. 1 paragraph 1 Act on the protection of classified information. Such information shall be provided with certain security clauses, which means that it may only be made available to the person entitled to receive the security classification in accordance with the provisions of the Act on access to the specific security classifications. and that they must be processed under conditions preventing their unauthorised disclosure. By nature, if such information is to be disclosed at a committee meeting, the welfare of the state requires secrecy. In turn, the failure of the deliberations means that they cannot be disclosed. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the sitting, if it is known in advance that classified information is to be discussed, shall be convened as confidential by its chairman. Amendment made in Article OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall adapt the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to the Rule. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 of the Constitution, according to which the amendment of the Constitution takes place by means of a law adopted in the same form by the Sejm and then within no more than 60 days by the Senate. Hence, the time limit for the adoption of the amendment of the Constitution by the Senate should be counted not from the date of the transfer of the Act to the Senate, as in the case of ordinary laws, but from the date of the adoption of the Act on the amendment of the Constitution by the Sejm. New Art. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3a of the Rules of Procedure confirm that the institution of proposals from a minority of committees is primarily assigned to the procedure for expressing the Senate's position on the laws adopted by the Sejm. Such requests shall not be made at first reading of the draft laws and resolutions of the Senate. This is not possible in the light of Article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate setting out the content of the joint report of the committee after first reading laying down the principle of presentation of the text of the single draft. Despite the established practice of applying the rule by Senate committees, this principle continues to raise doubts among senators during the committee's deliberations. Hence the need to make changes. New wording of the article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) of the Rules of Procedure takes into account that, in accordance with the Act of 10 May 2018 on the protection of personal data, which entered into force on 25 May 2018, the competent authority on the protection of personal data in place of the General Data Protection Officer is the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data. High Senate, this report shows that changes are of different kinds. And this is the answer to the statutory changes, and this clarifies the provisions that exist in our regulations, e.g. related to minority proposals, and this finally removes certain inconsistencies related to deadlines for the adoption of laws which come from the Sejm, including in particular the Constitution or amendments to the Constitution. They are also of a purely technical nature, such as this change concerning the General Data Protection Officer. This term no longer exists, the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection appeared and this should also be entered in the Rules of Procedure. After a very lively and long discussion in which the senators participated, expressing their concern for the shape of the rules and rules of operation of the senators in the Senate space and in the area under the jurisdiction of the Sejm and Senate Office, the committee adopted a proposal for a resolution to amend the rules without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Krzysztof Elephant to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Yes? You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u38	Mr Senator rapporteur, what is the ratio of legis of amending paragraph 18, which makes the statute of the Registry give to the Marshals, but without consulting the Senate Bureau and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, i.e. those 2 bodies of the Senate's collegial bodies? So far, the Marshal gives this statute, but after consulting you, and at the moment you propose that the Marshal decide for one person the statute of the law firm, the organisation of the internal law firm, the number of posts, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u40	Dear Marshal, the basic reason is to harmonise the provisions in the case of the Sejm and the Senate, because, in the case of the Statute of the Sejm Chancellery, such an order is given by the Marshal of the Sejm to grant the statutes of the Sejm Chancellery. An additional condition is the simplification of this procedure. It is assumed that since the Senate Marshal is responsible for the functioning of the Senate and all its activities serve to ensure that the Senate's work and the work of all the Senate's staff are efficient and serve the smooth course of the Senate's work, it is precisely - We think it's gonna be okay. - Okay, okay, The Senate Marshal should be able to broadcast the Senate's statutes by means of his decree. [[I have another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u42	Senator, I have the following question in connection with your reply: is it that the Sejm is a marshal and the Senate is a Senate bureau? Is there a difference, and is this difference still being maintained?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u44	Issues related to the designation and assignment of functions to the Marshal of the Sejm, the Senate Marshal, the Sejm Bureau and the Senate Bureau were not discussed by the committee. It is established in practice that the equivalent of the Marshal of the Sejm is in the Senate the Marshal of the Senate, whose powers are given at the moment of selection. Those powers shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The applicants propose that the Statute of the Senate is a document which will be issued by the Senate Marshal each time if he considers that amendments are necessary or the situation requires a completely new statute to be issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u46	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting where I was present, we've been asking questions all the time. This is my third term. I have not noticed in this term of office an excessive violation of peace or order by the senators. Answer me, because I really don't know why you're doing this. What was the reason why we had to change the rules for the second time, tighten the penalties? Well, I'm sorry, but these penalties, it's a down payment or a diet... this gradation is progressing. Well, it's a good thing it's not like the Seym, it's not nine months, it's only three months. Tell me what this has caused, what cases, what cases have caused you to change these rules during this term of office to discipline the senators so strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u47	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u48	Dear Senator, I am proud to say that I have not recorded in the previous term or in this term any such cases as would justify such regulations as regards the Upper House, the Senate. As Vice-President of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, I am also very grateful to the senators for the fact that such cases are not under discussion and are not evaluated by the committee. So far, the committee has dealt with, you can say, very minor cases, most often related to failing to justify its absences or to some unthought-out statements, especially when information about this came to your marshal from the outside. But then the question of whether the marshal should give a warning, a reprimand, or a notice was also considered. Thus, in the case of the Senate, we can say: let us continue this way, and those provisions which are eventually introduced into our Rules of Procedure will remain unused, or dead. If the marshal will allow it. And this is also related to what the senator was talking about, that is, to these specific changes. I would like to make some amendments. [[In the debate. You can't do that now.]] [[It's in the debate.]] In a debate? [[In the middle of a discussion.]] Good. Mr President, thank you very much for your vigilance. I wanted to use that time. I also inform the senator that these amendments to the applicant's Rules of Procedure propose that the Act of 15 June amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator be introduced. This Act was signed on 23 July 2018 and will enter into force on 7 August 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u49	Thank you. Senator Zientarski has a question, right? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u50	Mr President, what is justified by the mapping, such a symmetry of the Rules of Procedure in the case of the Sejm and the Senate, as regards the question of the President's decision to secrete the deliberations of the committee? So far, the committee president, with the agreement of the entire committee, has been able to keep the committee's meeting secret. I would like to remind you that there are differences in the structure of the Sejm and the Senate when it comes to committees, because there is a committee bureau in the Sejm, the chairman is the chairman of the committee bureau, and there is no committee bureau in the Senate, there is no such body, there is a one-member management of the committee, and therefore the chair position is higher. And this is where we make a change. I'm asking you, why? The President is the only one who will vote against the members of the committee and leave the decision to the President, while his position is still higher, as I said, in relation to the position of the chairman of the parliamentary committee, because there must be a resolution of the bureau. [[Vice-President...]] Therefore, I believe that this change is not justified. What are you explaining this change... [[Okay, thank you...]] ...under the circumstances?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u51	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u52	I am in a hurry to reassure the senator that the previous regulations do not disappear, they will remain as they were before. There is only a newly added paragraph which gives, in justified cases, those which I have already referred to in the explanatory memorandum, the possibility for the chairman to be able to order such a procedure before the committee is convened. The previous procedure remains, he gives the opportunity to speak also to the committee. I also think that, in practice, it will look like the committee chairman will be helping with the opinion of the bureau, although those cases that... [[It's not the bureau. It's the members of the committee.]] But also the bureau, because if they do... [[There's no committee bureau, there's no committee. There's no body like that in the Senate.]] I understand, but it is sometimes a practice, you will admit to the senator that certain issues relating to the convening of committees are agreed between the President and the Vice-Presidents. In my explanatory statement, I have pointed out those situations which, by nature, are in favour of the President already making such a preliminary decision to convene a committee in such a way. Of course, after the committee has assembled, the votes and conclusions may be different, after all, the senators can express their disapproval for such a process of convening the committee. The point is that in some cases it is not necessary to convene a committee so that the committee determines that its next meeting will be classified. Only this is added and the previous regulations continue to function.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u53	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I wish you were a marshal. It's been bothering me the whole time. Doctor by profession and... Why this tendency to punish and decide one person? It doesn't have a freezing effect. Really. Maybe there are little exceptions, there are some friends who are gonna be scared. The rest of you... That's what's causing the behavior that we've seen in our last meetings. The vote shall be taken and the debate shall be shortened. That's the effect of discipline. And Mr. Marshal may find this to be a flagrant violation of... [[Question, Senator.]] Is that the right reason?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u55	Good. Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u56	The Senate and committee meetings will be governed by existing regulations, which provide for several stages of action by marshals or committee chairmen. As the senator herself pointed out in her previous statement, you did not see in the senators' functioning a situation that would empower the marshal to apply these solutions. I agree with the senator here. Keep up the good work. May our greatest problem be the temperature of discussion, possibly the need to call senators to order or even to receive the floor when the Marshal acknowledges And let's all admit that the senator's voice is either at the wrong time or doesn't apply to the point or goes beyond the matter of the issues in question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u57	Thank you very much. Any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, please speak. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have decided to take the floor in the debate so that, as in the joint committee meeting, I can express my opinion and make legislative proposals. I believe that the draft resolution contains the necessary and necessary solutions that my previous speaker, the Senator rapporteur, referred to, for example, the General Data Inspector. These are technical things that we should do, of course. But now we're doing it like we're introducing other solutions that we're doing, the Senators of the Civic Platform, questioning the merits. I would like to appeal to the debate that took place in the High Senate at the previous sitting, which concerned the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. This law forces us, albeit unjustly, to change the rules concerning new premises, the extended catalogue of premises on the basis of which the Marshal of the Senate will be able individually, can be said, arbitraryly, on the basis of very vague criteria, to punish Members... Sorry, senators. The Members, of course, are also concerned. This is an area where we disagree. Parliament is the place where the debate should take place, even very harshly. We are authorized by our constituents to express our views on their behalf, often in a very sharp, radical way, at the border, I would say, the admissibility of the language of political debate. In the public opinion, there was a legitimate view that it could be used as a muzzle for senators, especially those senators who are very expressive in their statements. This in no way democratizes our internal agreement, which is the rules. Therefore, in a moment I will apply again to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. There is another provision in this draft resolution, which Marshal Borusewicz mentioned. Namely, this is a bit of a stalemate, because it is not particularly exposed, a proposal is made that the Senate Marshal should make changes to the status of the Registry, after consulting the Senate Bureau and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. This is, in my opinion, a very important change, which makes decisions arbitrary, will be taken without consultation, even with the bureau or the committee, with other bodies of the Senate. It seems that such important decisions as a change of statute, and what this could mean for many offices, people... We read with concern that the marshal made quite a radical, categorical assessment of the activities of the Legislative Bureau. In this context, should we look at the tools that we will equip your marshal, who will decide for one person on the organizational structure of the firm? [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is also certain as if a breach in the achievements of the Senate's work culture. Well, you can't accept this proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore, in addition to submitting an application for rejection of the entire draft resolution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen! Quiet, please.]] ...after second reading, I also make a legislative proposal to delete this one point from the resolution. I also think that this change regarding the new grounds for punishing senators is so imperfect... Besides, this has already taken place in the debate at the joint committee meeting. Very substantively Senator Czerwiński spoke, pointing to possible wide interpretation or imperfect interpretation of the records. I fully agree with that, I think that this should be redesigned, there was a conversation about it. However, this is merely a substantive remark, and politically this project, which gives such serious tools to the marshal, is simply unacceptable to us. I am making proposals of a legislative nature. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u59	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal. And the conclusions? Are they? I'll have that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and earlier of the Act, is in line with the general trend imposed by the parliamentary majority or by the PiS in both Chambers of Parliament. But I'm not talking about the Seym. I want to talk about the Senate. This change, first of all, weakens the position of the collegial bodies in the Senate, because the Marshal's giving the statute without an opinion by the Senate Bureau and the Rules of Procedure... Well, it's clear what's going on. It means that the marshal can freely shape the Senate administration and no one will have any influence on it, and the information obtained will be post factum information. That's one thing. Secondly, it is similar with the proposal for a one-man decision on the secrecy of committee meetings. To date, the decision of secrecy, which is essential for access to media information, public opinion, had to be taken by the whole committee. And it's not like the chairman of the committee will just be able to propose a cover-up in advance. He'll be able to propose a cover-up during the committee's deliberations. And if he wants to remove the press committee from the meeting, which is to interrupt the possibility of contacting the public, he's gonna order a cover-up. It's not like he's gonna propose covertness, but he's gonna order covertness, and the journalists are gonna be removed from the committee. I don't really understand why, in light of what happened in the Senate... I do not really understand why such proposals are appropriate. But it's not the most important thing. The most important thing is to extend the Marshal's possibility of punishing with very high fines, because this combined, as I have calculated, could be a penalty of PLN 15.16 thousand. But it's not just about height. The main point is that the rule that speaks of violating the Senate's seriousness is so out of focus that you can punish for everything. What is meant by the senate's importance? I mean, interpretations can be different. It's not a violation of the rules of procedure, a violation of order on the board of directors... etc., etc., but it's a violation of the Senate's seriousness. We don't know... I'm afraid this concept will be interpreted in an expansive way. It is also a vague concept that will be interpreted by one person. I understand that they could be introduced, but provided that the senate's collegial bodies speak of this, i.e. a committee of rules, a bureau, that there would be some discussion, determining what the concept of "Senate's seriousness" means. But for some, the seriousness of the Senate, i.e. Its violation will be different from that of others. This reminds us of the Roman rule that was introduced by Rome in relation to the conquered nations. There has always been a contract, an agreement according to Roman law, accurate, good, equal or equal, and at the end of it there was a small provision: if the seriousness of the Roman people is violated, this agreement will cease to apply. And who interpreted this violation? Who said there was a breach of seriousness or dignity? Dignity, dignity was said there, dignity was violated. Who? The stronger one, the one who had power. So we are very broad here, I can say that unlimited power is given to those who currently have a majority in the Senate, so we give unlimited power to the marshal. And no one's gonna care about that. Nothing. No one's gonna be able to question that. This is the situation that fits into the general situation of Parliament, the Seym, the Senate and around Parliament. Parliament's been closed for over a year. It's closed. Once any citizen, as well as a tourist, could pass through parliament. Only entrance to the Sejm and Senate buildings was controlled and limited. And right now, all gates and gates are closed to outsiders. The entry of journalists with one-off passes is limited every minute. Our guests' entrances, as well as guests' admission to committee meetings, shall be restricted and restricted. After all, this makes it difficult for us to perform our senatorial duties as enshrined in the bill. I mean, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, you know, it's just When there was a meeting on the anniversary of the CUL, the century of CUL, the bishop of Lublin and invited guests waited at the gate for more than half an hour. This conference was therefore disorganized. This is the situation. Unacceptable. And these internal rules, which cause the senator to be punished in any situation and can be punished by a single-member Marshal of the Senate, are part of the general trend, which is the departure from the openness of the Sejm and the possibility of discussion in the Seym and the Senate. We have also witnessed the restriction of this discussion, twice. For the first time in the history of the Senate And it will certainly be recorded in the Senate's annals, the time of individual appearances was reduced, from 15 to 5 minutes. For the first time, twice, the list of speakers has been reduced. The question time has already been reduced several times, which has never been in previous terms. And then the next steps. Well, speaking time limits... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] Every one of us... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] I understand. You're the one... I can't say that your marshal fits in with my concerns... [[No...]] I see. But as a result, I am filing a motion to reject this resolution. We shouldn't put a muzzle on our own, we shouldn't do an amputation on our own, either on our own or under the influence of suggestions or any indeterminate concerns. We should defend our senate independence and our ability to function in the Senate. I'm filing a motion for rejection... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u61	Thank you. [[...at second reading.]] Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make an amendment, too. I fear that the first motion to reject this resolution of the Rules of Procedure, which, I confirm, should be rejected, absolutely, because it violates our rights... [[Voice from the room: Right.]] But every single one of us, chosen by a large group of our constituents... I do not know whether they would also want their senator to be afraid to speak here in this House because he is in danger of disciplinary punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as you are discussing here in this House, we have the right to work in this Chamber. Even though these discussions were harsh, conclusions and proposals, we will adopt laws and we will be able to talk about democracy or limited democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the violation of the importance of the Senate has already been the entry of the police here last year for the first time. Marshal Piłsudski wouldn't allow it. Marshal Piłsudski introduced the army, never the police in his life. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's that supposed to mean? Were we supposed to be scared? Was that supposed to be a freezing effect? Then we should all get up and leave, not lead to the fact that today in the next resolution, the next act speaks to senators, as I do not know to whom, how to behave. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not the point. That's what it's all about, so we're scared to scare the opposition. You've scared a little bit, you've scared a part, you won't scare everyone. And don't do it, don't really let it happen, because it's going to stick to you, too, because you're closing the opposition's mouth. Ladies and gentlemen, who do you want to punish now? Who? Active senators. Active, because those who sit still and do not attend the meeting will travel abroad for longer, you will like them more. But not the active ones, those who have the courage to stand up and say, "Dear ones, don't go this way." Really. Really. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we were looking at these pictures when we adopted the law on courts. [[The day before yesterday.]] [[The day before yesterday.]] The day before yesterday. It doesn't matter when. The day before yesterday, yesterday... The president signed it. But... [[Talking in the O.R.]] More? [[Let your friend tell you.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, did the participation of these people not remind all of you that we are sitting here in a holy place, that we are being deprived step by step of freedom, of further freedoms. I really appeal to you and please. Because to me, it's not a violation of the law, if anyone talks, even loudly, perhaps too expressively, or wears a mask, please, if they keep quiet on this speaker. Let him speak. As long as we have a chance to speak, ladies and gentlemen, we won't be able to speak. I'll remind you to put them in jail. That's because this is a place to talk. And don't really do it. Really. From handcuff to handcuff... Today you will be punishing with three months' wages or diets, and tomorrow it will be for nine months, as in the Seym. So what? And then the same people who went out and talked had the courage to speak. You won't scare us. Nobody's really gonna scare us. All the more reason to talk. You can't do that. That's why I think That's what I think. A violation of the law that should be punished is that it is not here 2/3 of senators who collect money, i.e. And diet, and salary. They're not here, ladies and gentlemen. What's that? They're working? Well, they're not working. Therefore, I propose an amendment to the article. 1 in point 2 (a) and in the mouth. 1 add point 4 as follows: "Lessing without justification more than half the duration of the Senate or committee meeting." And we add this as a violation by a parliamentarian in a blatantly peaceful way... Oh, not peace, just an indication of a disturbance of peace or order... In my opinion, I'm gonna say it again. If someone does not attend the meeting and does not work, he should have a cut, apology, salary or diet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u63	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Christopher Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was scared that all that the senators had said earlier was included in these changes proposed by the applicants. Once again I looked through it all and breathed relief, because it is to be introduced only what is written there and nothing more. As far as covertness is concerned... I will quote this point: If the committee's deliberations are to be kept confidential within the meaning of the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information, the chairman of the committee shall decide on the secrecy of the proceedings. The President shall, when convening the meeting, identify the persons who are required to attend the meeting. We did not write down here the intentions that you spoke about, Marshal Borusewicz, i.e. that at any time during the committee's deliberations the chairman will be able to invite someone from the committee's deliberations, using this provision. Senator Štark also spoke here about very drastic situations that are taking place in connection with the changes introduced in the Rules of Procedure. Well, those issues she was talking about, that is, about the behaviors of the Senate... They're already in our regulations. At the moment, there will only be issues that indicate that these regulations will also be brought to the attention of the Senate committees. Ladies and gentlemen, what is really going on right now is beyond ours... there is no cover and memory, and in the memories of our previous term. But the response to certain situations must be adequate. I don't recall you letting people into parliament or into the Senate themselves who were expressing... And they were e.g. miners, quite upset, who expressed their opinion on the changes in retirement age. They, as I remember correctly, also focused on their comments, along the village street. And they were separated from the Senate area by uniformed services or other means to protect the Senate area. Probably many senators have never thought that instead of introducing people who they think should visit Parliament, you can give them a trip in the trunk of your car. True, it is a rather drastic formula, but you have noticed, I, too, that when we enter Parliament now, the proper services expect us to air our trunks and show them inside. There are situations that didn't happen in the past, and now they do. Do the honorable senators remember that somebody on Parliament's buildings ever write any passwords that are difficult to wash with paint? It's already happened at the moment. A few years ago, one of the citizens of the Republic of Poland had a plan to drive an explosive car into Parliament. These are situations that really go beyond our understanding of democracy, but talking about them in the context of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure is, I think, a delicate overinterpretation of them. It is only matters related to the behaviour of the senators, because this is what changes in our regulations refer to. I wished all my colleagues that we should act as we have done so far, and the rules introduced into the Rules of Procedure will remain dead. I reassure you that the remaining regulations proposed by the applicants do not reduce the rights of senators, but stabilise certain issues, such as minority proposals or deadlines, which the Senate has for the review of the Constitutional Amendment Act or the amendment of the Constitution. He was also here in such an accent that the senators are already completely deprived of any form of appeal and no one will be able to intercede for them anymore. Such procedures will remain. The senator dissatisfied with the Marshal's decision will be able to appeal to the bureau and it will consult the Rules of Procedure Committee. Believe it or not. Mr Rybicki will also confirm this. It is rare to recall the senators or ask the marshal for the opinion of the committee on the functioning of the senators. Good. These are very trivial cases. They are related e.g. except that someone neglected to justify his absence or emotionally said something that was so and not otherwise interpreted by representatives of the public. These things go to the board of directors, and we're debating what to recommend to the marshal. He wants the senator to point out whether he's being reprimanded or he's being reprimanded. We haven't reached the reprimand yet. Mr. Marshal was mostly recommended by us. I'm talking about the caliber of these cases. To get the senator's attention. Allow me to submit an amendment to the proposed provisions, after examining the comments made by Senator Czerwinski during the joint committee meeting. It's in the article. 1 in point 2 in point (a) b, paragraph. 1a is replaced by the following: Points 1 and 2 shall apply to conduct at the Senate or committee meeting There was a question, you remember the state, these bodies; Mr. Czerwiński picked up this inaccuracies. - in the event of a situation referred to in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3a. And it will already be known beyond any doubt that these issues concern Senate meetings or committees. And another amendment. Since, I would say, it has been undisputed that the provisions of the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator will enter into force on 7 August, I propose on behalf of the applicants that in the article. 2 at the end add the words "with the exception of Article." Point 1 (2) which shall enter into force on 7 August 2018. At the same time, Mrs Marshal, I ask the committee to oblige the report on the examination of the proposals submitted to the High Senate at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u65	Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, please. [[Senator, we have a signature.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! I have the impression that this place is slowly turning into a claim that the Sejm is becoming inaccessible to citizens, to people, that Members and Senators are being bullied, subjected to repression. 'Cause what else could you call, for example. The fact that he doesn't allow a father who has children in his upbringing, his family, his salary for a few months, to cut off his salary? What else can you call it? Or what to call a situation in which a Member is forbidden For the time being, the Member A business trip, representing Poland at the OSCE meeting, while Does he have that kind of duty? This is, ladies and gentlemen, unacceptable. Not only is it, as I said, a fortress, unfortunately it's still a private country. These amendments, in my opinion, are completely unnecessary here, because I do not recall that here in the Senate we are dealing with any case... Don't be, Mr. Senator, you were talking about some trunks, some... We Senators brought someone in here in the trunk? Did we have something on the walls of the Sejm? You are now proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which you do not have to make at all, changes concerning us. And this is repression against the other side of the room, just and exclusively. So far, this kind of repression hasn't been about you. I will make today amendments that strengthen the sense of the security of the opposition here in the Senate. These are the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, which... I'll read them quickly. The order of the Marshal is subject to appeal to the Senate Bureau, etc. The point is, if a senator gets punished by a marshal, he can appeal against it, he can be represented by... it's about not ruling a secret assembly, a bureau, where the marshal has a majority... Because it's like we refer to the bureau where the marshal has most of them. Well, that's completely, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't make any sense, which is why I've proposed that it be possible to appeal to the rule committee and that the senator may represent the defender, the other senator at any time. The point is, it's not a hood court. That's the first thing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me...]] It's okay, Mrs. Marshal. I just waited for the senator to finish. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments will increase security. Why am I talking about this? I'll mention the last time Marshal Karczewski summoned me three times, so he might actually be able to exclude me from the meeting. He called me to the point three times after my question to Minister Piebiak: Mr. Minister, where is your principal, where is Mr. Ziobro? Why can't we see him here? Last time he was here was, like, a year and a half ago. It was a situation. I said it. At that moment, Mr. Marshal interrupted my speech and called me to the point. I think that... I asked a question that is repeatedly asked here, about where the minister is, why he doesn't show up, why some directors come here, or there's no one at all, where the Member is, etc. It's been so many times. And I would like to tell you that in such a situation I am completely vulnerable. I grant the marshal that right, he has that right given to the regulations and the seriousness of his function. But where is the moment when the fact that you interrupt someone's speech starts to be just a repression of the opposition? That's what I'm thinking. And please note that these amendments I am talking about concern this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's really hard for me to tell you how... Ladies and gentlemen, really... [[That's the side that's bothering you.]] I do. You're welcome... [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent.]] I have some of my favorite senators on this side too, who interrupt every time, and how is your marshal... [[But no one's bothering you now.]] Oh, that's the senator interrupting, from Law and Justice... And I've been in such a situation several times, that it didn't involve your marshal, but it did concern the other attendings. They didn't pay attention, they didn't pay attention to the person who interrupted me. Where am I supposed to complain? How do I even... Well, I can complain to the bureau where the marshal has most... What kind of situation are we gonna be in in a minute, since... I hear the most important thing in the Senate is serious. Do you really think that seriousness is the most important thing in the Senate? That's not what Mrs. Shark was talking about. No attendance at committee meetings... [[Yes, sir.]] ...not attending meetings, only the most important thing is serious? Really? Only those who are particularly sensitive about their seriousness can feel this way, and they are such as the Marshal of the Sejm, who insulted and ruled out the envoy for turning ironically to him: Mr. Marshal dear. You have to have a little class and a sense of humor so you don't change the rules after that. But we're doing it here in the Senate, and it's just horrible. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past year, we have been dealing with a situation when not only the Marshal's Guard was going outside the Senate, but this was the situation that occurred to me by people who complained that they were being dragged outside by the Marshal's Guard. But the police are hiding in the bushes... I can show you the photos, really, in the bushes, the police hidden... [[Is that serious?]] Is that serious? This is the seriousness of the Sejm and the Senate? The police buried in the bushes? Ladies and gentlemen, who are you defending yourselves from? As we had a few hundred people on the other side of the fence... [[A few thousand.]] [[Voice from the room:...a few thousand.]] A few thousand... Well, when I left after the session was over, there were fewer people left. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Listen...]] But I'm talking about the fact that we've dealt with a situation where there was one officer per person. It's like that famous Miller song. It's really starting to look like this. Yesterday it was clear that the police weren't protecting the demonstrators, they were just fighting these demonstrators. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the police for? I think it's to protect people... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...that we're gonna hang.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I'd like to tell you that if we're discussing this policy here... You're protecting yourselves, you're provoking the state, you're simply provoking situations that don't happen. Senator Elephant has not been able to report from this term of office a single case of any violation of anything here in this area, but you are proposing amendments to the current rules in this area. And we see that if all of this is actually introduced, these changes to the Rules of Procedure and these changes to the Senate Office, to remain in the hands of the Marshal, then the opposition in the Senate will become more and more incapacitated. You may not know this, but I'm happy to watch... The senator spoke here, for example. about those foreign trips. And we're looking at pictures of you going with a delegation that doesn't have opposition representation at all. There are cases! And that's unacceptable. And there has never been such a situation, Ladies and gentlemen, that only such a group of senators should leave. You treat it like it's private... [[Time. Time, Senator. Time.]] ...Polletka and a private country. Yes, I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. I also submit here, on the hands of your marshal, corrections. They're gonna let a senator who's gonna be charged with anything get a chance. Still uneven, but any chance In defense. Because they were referred to, although perhaps at a committee meeting, cases showing that the marshal could give his consent to the defender, as he did in one case. But there were two examples of your senators, yours. I don't know, I'm not so sure what a marshal would do if one of us felt wrongly accused. That is why I am making this amendment and I will ask for its support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u67	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with a short dementi of one of the senators' words. The main cry was: Senator, you still can! And that was the main motive there. I haven't heard anyone scream, "You're gonna hang!" Although actually more and more often they screamed: "You will sit down!" [[I heard what they were yelling that we were gonna hang.]] [[They're criminal threats.]] But you certainly haven't been, you'll be hanging! I didn't hear that. But again... I'm going back to this: You can still do it, Senator! And with this slogan, I address the esteemed senators. I'm going to try to get over the divisions, as usual... I'm going to say that what hurts me the most is that less and less Senate is in this senate of ours. Do you remember six months ago when I asked... I asked for another change proposed by the Sejm And even a few of my colleagues could be tempted, although not most of them I asked and suggested: let's reject it and do something ourselves. We can do the same, but let's do it as Senate. 'Cause look, fellas, there's an article in these changes... I think it's gonna be in the article. 25... It's a record of grossly disturbing peace or order on the premises of the Sejm Office or the Senate Office. Senator rapporteur asked me this question, and where is this section of the area that the Senate Office manages, he answered me honestly that he had heard that somewhere on the street there is a view of... [[On Smolna.]] Excuse me... [[On Smolna.]] Oh, Smolna. Yeah, he said there's a building in there that's run by the Senate Office. ♪ 'Cause here we are ♪ We've been guests for a long time, the Senate Office can't do anything here. And that's very sad. Mr. Senator, one word à about the trunk. Once again, I just want to emphasize one thing: no senator has brought anyone here! Which one of us would have had that idea? Nobody, I take it. So let's not act in the name of this principle that we've been through quite recently, that because a few ministers have taken bonuses, we'll punish the parliamentarians who didn't take those bonuses. It's totally paranoid, isn't it? Let's do something ourselves. And finally, of course, something ad absurd. Colleagues, if we can't protect our dignity any more As it turned out from the committee meeting, as you might have guessed after Senator Radziwił's statement, we do not have a kindergarten taken out of the house, since we are afraid that something will be imposed on us. I propose, as an ad absurd, an old Polish tradition, a donkey bench. Let's put her right here. And anyone who behaves unworthy, we'll sit there for one sitting. It'll be effective. What I would like to say is that I would like to file a motion to reject the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have decided to speak, although I absolutely sympathize with the statements of the predecessors of the Civic Platform Club. But as former chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I think I should also like to make some points clear to you once again. I also dealt with this in a special way. There is a publication on the internal organization of the Senate, a legal study; I did this job. It makes it clear that our House, as an autonomous Chamber of Parliament, is not an organizational representation of the Sejm. I am talking about this because it was during the committee meeting that these changes were argued in particular so that these changes have already been introduced in the Sejm and we should make such changes in a symmetrical way. In my opinion, it is neither symmetrical nor a duty at all. We are the House that makes the rules for itself. And here the Sejm, so to speak, has nothing to do with it; it is not possible to offer us any changes or make changes. We are completely autonomous in this matter. That is why we should show the separateness of our House. After all, the rapporteur himself said that such situations relating to the violation of the seriousness of the Senate in our House do not happen, have not happened. Therefore, I ask: why, why do we have to do a mapping of what is in the Seym, to transfer this calculator to our regulations? We've changed our regulations before, for example. when the laws introduced new institutions concerning the so-called. the creation function of the Senate when competence was added, e.g. the election of members to the National Public Prosecutor's Council, i.e. new competences have been added. There was a need for change back then. However, such mapping is absolutely not. First of all, it has always been so that in the Senate the level of emotion was lower, and the level of culture and debate was higher. And we're all aware of that, and very well. Well, let's show that there's actually no need for that. I've spoken to some senators and they say, "Wouldn't it be enough to say, authoreaia?" So if somebody went too far, it would be enough to make the so-called. Active grief, apologies... Would there be a need for some kind of punishment? Well, we care about that. Besides, there is a rule committee that deals with ethical issues, and penalties exist in the rules of procedure. They exist. Therefore, I think that this catalog that exists, and these regulations that exist, can absolutely satisfy this new law... and absolutely no need to introduce those solutions that the Sejm has adopted. And, of course, the very important issue of stripping what you said to the Marshal, the Senate's collegiate bodies... There's less of them, because the bureau is just the Sejm Bureau... There is no other body, except the marshal, the Senate Bureau, the committee and the chairman of the committee, and there is no committee bureau. Therefore, if we prevent the Senate Bureau from expressing itself as regards the amendment of the Senate's Statute, and we deprive the Senate of the possibility to comment on the rule of law committee, in my opinion, we are, in fact, undermining the powers of the senators. Because by increasing the marshal's powers, we're reducing the role of the Senate's collegiate bodies. In my opinion, there are no circumstances which justify these changes, which are made as if by the way. I therefore strongly support the proposals made to reject all these new rules, some of which I consider unnecessary and some even harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure should not, in fact, affect the substantive side of the Senate's work. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen! Gentlemen, please be quiet, because the senator...]] [[From our club...]] ...She says very important things. [[...he's taking the floor now and he's disturbing your conversation.]] [[We're listening.]] I repeat: I believe that amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure should not and must not affect the substance of the Senate's work, and the proposed amendments will unfortunately affect. And that's why I'd like to protest this change. The most dangerous change seems to me, which concerns one person and without control of the Marshal's broadcast of the Senate Statute. Because, as Senator Rybicki has said quite gently, this poses a threat to the Legislative Office and, in particular, to the legislators. As a marshal, in the current situation, I would be very reluctant to read and listen to comments from the Legislative Office that the law is unconstitutional, I would prohibit the categorical expression of such an opinion, because from constitutionality is actually the Constitutional Tribunal. There can be restrictions in this area, and this is an important issue. Few of this can be done more delicately, namely personal changes, changes in the composition of the office, choosing such legislators, who will be very careful in using decisive terms, and will focus on what is also present in opinions, namely dots, commas, legislative traditions, the way in which they are taken, etc. So that I don't think that's acceptable. That's one thing. Secondly, in short, I consider it a very risky introduction, without the control of the Rules of Procedure Committee, of the category of violation of the seriousness of the Senate and the one-man settlement, which is the infringement and what is not. Let me ask you this: did Senator Jan Rulewski present in his prisoner's costume violate the seriousness of the Senate or not? [[Of course.]] And by wearing a mask on your face? [[Voice from the room: Six months suspended.]] I'm already bringing in the ad absurdity case: does the senator, acting without a tie, violate the importance of the Senate or not? Actually, he should look neat and wear a tie. Such solutions may be put in place, but they should be strongly based on the opinion of the collegial body, which is the committee responsible. Senator Elephant, neat man Oh, he just demonstrated something by taking off his tie was very conciliatory. This is a nice, elegant man who expresses himself in a very smooth and observant way, but this does not guarantee that a single-person marshal, under the influence of emotion or for other reasons, will not apply solutions that will significantly limit not only the expression of the senators, but also what they want to say. I therefore believe that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure should be rejected. This is my first request, which was expressed in the previously proposed amendments. At least introduce a collegial body that would advise the Marshal's possible decisions. And that's what I'm talking to the High House about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u73	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, I was challenged, summoned or invited to this discussion. The title to this is my long internship. Let me put it this way: this discussion today stems from the fact that we are dealing with an increase in the oppression of power, a broad sense of power, both behind these steel gates and, of course, within the parliament. This may be due to the deepening of the political debate, although I do not believe that there is a golden rule for defining the limits of this debate. That's where I'd ask you a question. It may seem a little surprising. How would Marshal Kuchciński or Marshal Karczewski behave if someone like Rejtan threw himself at the door and didn't let someone in to carry the announcement... At that time, of course, it was the trespassing of the Tsar army, but today, i.e. A few years or months ago, I heard that entering the European Union is an act of treason. And I was just looking to see if anybody would show up, and I was thinking about Senator Burst's father, the senator's father. Who's gonna barricade the door when we're supposed to be sitting. This phenomenon can happen again when we work on the constitution. Then maybe someone will barricade themselves. And the question is, was it Rejtan's debate, or was it a violation of the rules of procedure? It was undoubtedly a violation of the rules of procedure, but also a great debate. All I'm saying is that in our parliamentary chambers, where we are representatives of the sovereign, the debate has the right and should be... not to say that it is hot, but the nature of the use of many arguments and, above all, the limitless freedom of others. My mentor, Senator Zientarski, began to speak for the tune I wanted to include in the amendment. He said that it was our House that was competent to define these rules. I would like to say this in one word: yes, we have the right to a certain self-government. We do not need to listen to the oppressive power from the outside, even one that says: lower everyone's wages evenly. And also other recommendations, even from the Sejm, do not need to be listened to. Yes, we have this established right, supported by an election mandate, other than in the Sejm, to establish the self-government of our House. And I think it's in the interests of both ours and, Mrs. Marshal, above all, Mr. Marshal Karczewski. For the success of the Senate's work is the success of the marshals, and in the following line: these ninety-seven senators. If so, why does this authority accept the oppressive uniform, wants to punish, wants to punish itself, wants to make resolutions, wants to make regulations and even doesn't allow interpretation? It's happened. I'm sorry, I have to say this. That Mr. Marshal suspended the Rules of Procedure in the course of the proceedings on the law on common courts and refused to report, as Senator Borusewicz also said, until the end of the Law on the Supreme Court. But if it's like this Perhaps we should also listen to the arguments of the opponents, the authors of this resolution. That discipline is expanding, that's a few solutions. This, of course, is the oppressive power. Somewhere in the back room there should be a goat for senators who, even though they're being punished, they'll still be doing their job. I mean, there's a lot of recidivists. Modern and not only contemporary models, especially religious ones, provided that within the framework of self-government, such a person is allowed to be a person of great autonomy, and this person is certainly represented by So, as Senator Zientarski said here, to express active regret. Although apologies are not an expression of active regret. It would have to be an obvious form, something more obvious. But we also know of such cases in codes that someone can voluntarily impose a penalty on himself, not only to avoid this punishment, but also to shorten this marking process, that is, to determine the penalty. And my amendment is that the marshal may waive the order referred to in paragraph. 2, if the senator voluntarily deviated from the conduct or prevented its effect or voluntarily renounced part or all of the salary and diet. Well, somebody can say, "The employee can't, even voluntarily, give up his salary." I'm just pointing out that we don't have a salary, we just have an allowance. President Kaczyński clearly pointed it out, finger pointed out that from the salary 1/3, or 1/20 or 1/4... no, 1/5 lost, died. Then we are certainly not employees. But also in the Labour Code is that financial penalties are imposed, under certain conditions of course, there are only three cases. Marshal Sewerinsky might have fixed me up here. Then let us allow ourselves to be self-ruled, let us also give ourselves the right to express... to admit a mistake, but not just in the form of an apology. 'Cause it's the easiest. But also in the form of a penalty. And that's the essence of the amendment. And one more point. Well, it did happen, and it didn't have to happen so that the marshals of both Chambers, of course, didn't just happen here, but apparently they became party officers who were carrying out party tasks in the Sejm and Senate. There was this marshal, and I knew him, with distinctive qualities, with ZCHN. That's the same name as yours. Chrzanowski. I can tell you that I've been watching him. But he was Marshal of the Sejm, representing the Sejm, telling him what he... He didn't divide it into opposition and coalition. He was talking about the Seym... [[Applause]] [[He had authority.]] That's what I don't notice today. It's true, isn't it? To talk about the work of the Sejm, the Senate, which is understood as Chambers. Well, those days have passed, just as the Solidaritys have passed, though they return here to the demonstration spirit of Solidarity. We should also talk in the Constitution about pointing out a neutral marshal. But what could we possibly do today if the marshal is politicized if the committee is politicized? However, with respect to you, Senator Elephant: you have had some flashes of neutrality, but you are not alone in the committee. And there's this trust institution. Marshal Señor. A person who, in fact, is already doomed, at least in his next term of office. Wouldn't she be able to highlight the idea of a self-government senate in such matters. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna make an amendment, and I'm gonna ask you to consider it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u75	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Five minutes, Senator. And you're also Marshal Borusewicz, right? This is gonna be your first speech, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It wasn't too long before I could think of something like that. We talked about this, that, in principle, according to these changes in the rules of procedure, you would certainly have thrown Reytana out of the Senate if he had been here. You'd just throw him out, because he wouldn't only violate the seriousness, he'd tear his shirt, I don't know, expose himself, and so on. You'd have done it. That's what I'm paying attention to. But I would like to say more about what I said about these provocations. Ladies and gentlemen, by tightening the penalties before any offence has been committed, you are really provoking the state. And you've already provoked me so much that I'm declaring here that if... mostly I get here differently, but if I drive into the Senate by car, I won't open the trunk and the guards will have to pull me out of the car. Because I think we should stick to the rules we've always had here. And that's what I'm proposing. And last but not least, if you don't have authority, the rules get tougher. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u77	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I see the need to change the rules, but in the opposite direction. The position of the Sejm and the Senate, their independence should be strengthened. I think we have to go in the opposite direction. To strengthen the role of collegial bodies, where the opposition can also express its opinion and express its assessment. This is the direction we should go. And I'm sure if we win the election, we'll be strengthening the position of the Sejm and the Senate. It does not necessarily have to be that the marshals have to implement the party directives. If that is the case, the rules must also be amended. The marshals, like the British Chamber marshals, should be apolitical. [[Of course.]] [[Applause]] This is a fundamental change. And I promise you, we'll go this way. The Sejm and the Senate must not simply be externally guided by the heads of political parties who will not bear and bear any responsibility for their decisions. We are responsible for them here, at least politically. I believe it is wrong that the present Sejm and Senate are moving towards strengthening one-man power and moving towards merging the organs of the Sejm and the Senate with the government. Of course, the Sejm and the Senate are the result of the election results and are related to the government, but they cannot simply follow the government's instructions. And that's the way it is right now. And an internal issue. The rules, but not just the rules... It is terrible when foreign travel, which is our duty and not our privilege, is treated as a privilege and someone's right to travel abroad is withdrawn. When I was a marshal, I watched the opposition take part in foreign delegations, so that it would also have a voice during these foreign trips. And many of the Senators in the PiS experienced it, positively. There have been complaints from my club, the Civic Platform, some senators, why PiS is leaving so often. I replied that I did not accept such comments, because the opposition should be overrepresented on such trips and should not be cut off. And finally. Not only did Senator Rulewski... well, he had different ideas. Let me remind you that there was a Senator from the PiS, Senator of the Shell... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...who walked into that speaker and sang for 10 minutes. [[Time.]] There was Senator Pop the senior, who pulled out puppets, and during his speeches he performed puppet theater here. [[Of course.]] Neither of them were punished. [[Mr. Marshal, time. Thank you very much...]] I just asked that things like this shouldn't happen in the future. In this situation, after this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, they would be punished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Let's imagine a bit of a break from our problems and disputes, a country, and it doesn't take a great imagination to imagine such a country, because political life in the world is rich, where a certain group comes to power, as democratically as possible, and this group starts its rule by destroying the legal system, by subjugating the courts, by uncontrolled expansion of the surveillance system, by restricting the right to demonstrations, and by spoiling relations with allies. This, of course, causes some part of society to start protesting, and I think that's understandable. I will say more: I think that we all, as we sit here, if we saw such a country, maybe even here we would adopt a resolution, a critical resolution, a resolution supporting those who protest. And if the other side, for example. At parliamentary meetings... Well, if the rulers, the representatives of the ruling group, met with us and said, "Yeah, but they're breaking the law, they're waking up on the walls, they're shouting all sorts of ugly things about the police, and so on, we'd say, "People, what you're saying, you just don't respect democratic rules, and these people are right, these people are right to protest." If you're putting in more rigors now, more sanctions, then we're admitting right to those who are protesting and not to you. And this is, write it out, our situation. Of course, the PiS state will say: but what you are saying is that there is no violation of the law, everything is fine here, everything is constitutional and these people do not want to accept the election result. I get it, it's your point of view, but maybe it's not. However, maybe the fact that tens of thousands of young people are protesting, non-partisan absolutely, often uninvolved in any party policy so far, is worth thinking about. And answer the question of whether the fight against these protests is about tightening the rules, increasing the regime, dialogue and reflection. And now let's compare this to the situation of Parliament. What's going on here? Well, the Seym is becoming some kind of prison camp. After all, there are new rules every moment, Members can speak for 30 seconds, Mr Piotrowicz at the committee meeting does not allow any questions to be asked at all, and Mr Kuchciński cuts his salary for passing half a minute. I address you, colleagues from PiS: where do you lead Poland, where do you lead the parliament? Don't any of you dare say enough of this, not this way? In addition, there is a separate matter of the Senate. Yeah, it's already been mentioned. Do we really have to go like these sheep? I already ignore the injustice of everything that Marshal Kuchciński and the parliamentary majority do in the Sejm, but we have a different atmosphere. Do we therefore have to adopt such laws? Mr. Senator Elephant I'd like to add a compliment to the senator's address. A gentle man, explaining here, says: no, it's just in case, no, no, no, no. This is a bit similar to the situation in which we would include in the Penal Code that the transition to the red light is basically a mandac of PLN 50, but a policeman can also punish with the penalty of PLN 10,000, except that after consulting the chief of the precinct. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bullshit punishment. And the authors say, no, no, listen, it's not going to happen, it's just in case. Have some courage and say this is the Senate and this is different. Of course, everything that has been said about collegial bodies is also completely justified. I'm just warning you, we're really going the wrong way. Today we hear about the growing radicalization. Of course, one page says the cops were surrounded somewhere, there was a threat, and they had to use pepper spray. The other side says: the cops pushed us, pushed us, twisted our hands. We're not gonna solve this problem. We're not gonna solve it. We're gonna argue about this. You just have to ask yourself: why is all this happening? I assure you, not because you won the election. Absolutely not. I encourage you, once again, to go here, at least here in the Senate, on your own, and show that problems can be solved differently. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I am astonished to hear this debate because it finally concerns a small amendment to the Rules of Procedure and a huge... [[Joy in the Chamber]] That chant I'm hearing right now is completely inadequate for what I said. I'm even more sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole set of laws has been amended, so it is quite clear that we need to adapt the rules to these laws. It's just so obvious that it's actually hard to discuss. There was time to discuss them. Besides, some of them were not controversial at all. It seems that these amendments are simply necessary. As far as order is concerned, we are dealing with a problem. All you have to do is look around you. If we are talking today about the introduction into the Rules of Procedure, because it has already been decided in the Act, the need to limit actions preventing the work of the Senate and its organs, violations of the seriousness of the Senate, as well as gross ways of disturbing peace and order in the Senate, it is difficult to oppose this at all. Should the Senate be serious? Those who see the Senate as a place to fool around, dress up, go out, though you are, draw cards... By the way, take a look at the article. 19 Rules of Procedure, which expressly prohibits such behaviour. And I think the senators who actually are, but pretend they're not, violate the rules that exist, not the corrected ones, just the ones that exist. Look in there. It's very clearly written. We've been chosen not to fool around, to do this kind of circus and one another... Well, this is where you've been hanging out lately on your way out. But that's not how it works. We were chosen to argue the arguments, and then the rules are To decide something in the majority vote. That's our job, none of it. And if anyone thinks this is a place where they can be promoted in some non-standard way, I'd say so, then I guess he made a mistake, because this isn't the place to do it. It's not what a sovereign pays us to do that kind of thing. It seems that the way we take our role seriously is quite obvious. I repeat once again: the rules are now being changed in a way that is a natural, obvious consequence of what has already been done. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] And finally, 'Cause I think there's actually no reason for any big discussion here, because this change has actually been prepared in a calm, natural way, without going beyond what comes from the delegation already adopted laws and other regulations. I really call for us to be serious. And here, in the area that is managed by the Senate, and in every other area, and in every other place. Because the senator is... Well, being a senator obliges. A prudent, reticent and serious behavior is something that should be in the nature of each one of us. Of course, I will support this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u83	Thank you. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was said here that the current marshal would probably not have allowed Rejtan to attend the proceedings and it is unknown how he would have behaved if he had taken certain customary measures regarding his wardrobe. I don't know what it would be like right now. However, I can quote you by quoting this information, of course, because I would not like to be thought that I myself have such unbalanced and unbalanced opinions... I will give you a description of the situation that took place six years ago, while pointing out that reality is not so black and white, but is perhaps even more gray than this wall behind me, and how much responsibility is placed on the marshal every time he makes certain decisions, because they are also recorded in the annals, as was also mentioned. Let me get this quote. On Wednesday after 10 a.m., the Senate opened a special meeting during which it would debate a government pension reform that would extend the retirement age to 67 years. The representatives of "Solidarity" were not admitted to the debate, and here I add: also representatives of OPZZ. Despite previous announcements in the Wednesday debate on pension reform, the delegation of the Solidarity delegation will not participate, including the chairman of the Solidarity Group, Piotr Duda. I would add at this point that earlier, your Marshal Ewa Kopacz did not allow this delegation to sit on the Sejm. That was six years ago. [[But she didn't tighten the rules.]] That was six years ago. I'm talking about how difficult these decisions are made by the marshals. And Mr Duda's statement: "You see for yourself who is provoking. The government shows where the union is located, which is on the street. Any calls for peace on the Euro have them put in their pockets. I am shocked that this time the Speaker of the Senate considers the building to be his private farmhouse.Piotr Duda said the head of the "Solidarity" press conference in front of the building. [[From what?]] On the other hand, Leszek Miller, head of the SLD, said yes... As a reprehensible and outrageous, he assessed the decision not to allow union representatives to attend the Senate meeting on the reform of the pension system with a view to extending the retirement age to 67 years. I don't want to provoke any more speeches. I just want to show that this overinterpreting certain records, as Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł said, the opinion of these changes in the rules can be very damaging and can be very one-sided for these changes. At the same time, these opinions of some senators do not take into account the complexity of certain situations that we have witnessed and experienced over the past few years, when there are natural changes in opposition and governing benches. All of this must be taken into account before it is criticized, and it will completely condemn what is happening right now, looking at it very unilaterally. We need to take a moment to reflect on what the situation was like before, under the rule, after today's discussion, even the excellent Senate Rules of Procedure. However, there was a situation that raised public opposition, and our parliament was called a claim, a place of self-consciousness. This is a very complex matter. All I ask is to be objective in assessing these proposed solutions. Speaking of trunks and walls, I absolutely didn't mention that one of the senators did it. All I said was that the reality that happens in front of us often exceeds our imaginations, and surely our predecessors would hold their heads if they heard that such things would happen in 2018. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u85	You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I refer to what Senator Radziwiłł said. I will not allow you, by calling it unworthy, unwise, inappropriate behavior, to insult my colleagues in Law and Justice who have taken out the cards several times in the last term, trying to break the quorum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u87	You've got a voice, Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I only have one sentence, because this is where the person of my honorable father was summoned and the story of the previous term. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, as I know from my dad's report, as well as my fellow senators from the Civic Platform, already from this term, it was then that for this happening on the speaker, concerning the artist from London, as I recall, Marshal Borusewicz categorically demanded that my dad be punished. It was addressed to the Rules of Procedure and Ethics Committee and only because two Senators of the Civic Platform broke out of discipline and dared to oppose Mr. Marshal, my dad was not punished. So ... [[But this is proof that this bill is wrong.]] So this is rather an example of the fact that the point of view depends on the point of the seat, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal shouldn't make decisions.]] [[Applause]] But because I don't want to end this discussion in such a confrontational way, because I consider you Senator Radziwill I Contrary to appearances, we are making some technical adjustments to the bill that has already been passed by the Senate, and this debate has also been reversed, referring again to Senator Wach's statement about senators without ties, as a senator without tie, I must admit that there is no doubt that the senator in the tie is less bizarre. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u89	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. [[But we want this committee, we want it to be a committee.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ad vocem.]] Please, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u90	Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to turn on the microphone...]] Yeah, it's on. [[It's on now.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator, I understand you're defending your honored father, but if I wanted to punish your father for this puppet act, I would punish him because I had the opportunity. [[Voice from the courtroom: But to the committee...]] But I sent it to the committee because I thought the committee should assess it because it was on the verge of violating certain rules. Of course, I didn't know what the committee's decision would be, but I knew that the committee might look at it differently than the marshal. But even if I had decided to punish, this punishment would not have been as severe as it would have been after the adoption of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u91	There was no basis for... Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin with two words about... including this discussion between Senator Pęk and Marshal Borusewicz, I would like to say as a person sitting in the courtroom then that what happened is a confirmation... Ladies and gentlemen, do not go this way. If there is such a strengthening of the Marshal's decision, without the huge role of collegial bodies, there may be mistakes. I'm not talking about purposeful action, that the marshal doesn't like someone's speech there. And boom, he'll punish him... I don't believe it. Whoever's gonna be or is a marshal, I'm not addressing anyone with that expression... I believe, however, that the place where the parliamentary debate is to be... Don't go that way, what Senator Borowski was talking about. After all, the Senate as an element of parliamentary power in Poland, like the Sejm, is very lowly rated. Why? Do you think if we sit here like a trust, without emotion, the Senate's evaluation will improve? No. If the Senate isn't a place where the debate is even emotional... You would like people to go out and say, "Yes, I agree with the bill. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And they're gone. What an authority! People will surely say, "God, how wise these senators are. " Don't go that way. Now I address Senator Elephant. Mr. Senator, I'm also joining you in thanking me for what you're doing and how you're doing it. It's nice to listen to a senator who, in my opinion, knows what he's saying. I may disagree with him, but... That's an example. Please note one thing about the question of the Marshal's decision not to allow Mr Duda. On the side, we talked about the fact that maybe it was a mistake not letting the president into the debate. But you want to go this way, although you said it would be different, that there would be a democratic package, that it would be open here, that we would talk from morning to evening. Well, don't go that way. You want to close the Sejm and the Senate even more. I'm not talking about emotional elements anymore. What were the emotions then? Remember? I don't have to tell anyone who was here that night. After all, before the debate, Solidarity did... [[Chains.]] There were chains, there was not letting go, there was banging on the heads of Members and Senators, or actually of Members. If there is no discussion in the Seym and the Senate, and you are pursuing it, as Marshal Borowski said, she will move to the streets. I know that you do not attend demonstrations that take place in Poland today, but someday go quietly. Go not to increase attendance, but to listen and see who's there. There were people who were 18 yesterday. There was a girl who was 11 years old and talked about her dreams as a child. Of course, you're going to say "controlled." But go see what these young people say in control, what they say about what we're doing here, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, Come on, guys. Don't go that way. Now I'm talking to Senator Radziwill. Senator Radziwiłł grows up to be such a mentor during this term. I'd like to say yes, Mr. Senator. If we want to fight for seriousness, I want to ask you if the senator knows the definition of the word "recho." If not, I'll read it to you. It is a whining sound made by frogs and toads. Well, that doesn't matter. The second meaning is: snoring laughter, often thoughtless, for a stupid reason. The senators of the Civic Platform responded with a smile to your speech, which was full, to put it mildly. Do you distinguish between laughter caused by speaking certain absurdities from laughter you call laughter? If I had the authority that you have for the marshal, it would be for the word "recho" for what you called us as people who smile or laugh in thoughtless ways, I would have to punish you. But I think if you think so, talk about the people of the opposition. Speak of my beautiful speech. Do you want reinforcements like that? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Respectfully.]] Respectfully. Don't laugh. I'm gonna ask you again, guys. Don't go that way. Now I'm going back... Who's paying us? I'm sure you're not paying us marshals. Mr. Marshal may sign the list, but we're being paid by the sovereign. That's the word you love. You would like it to be this way: the sovereign pays, and you judge the marshal. And who should judge us for these cunning, stupid, and wise speeches? Who should judge? Marshal? After all, the marshal, whether from the Law and Justice or from the Platform or from another party, this is the primal inter pares, this is the equal man We who only got the task of leading the deliberations and representing the Senate outside. [[Yes, sir.]] And you're gonna give me the authority to say, "Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Excuse me, I'll use an example. Rulewski crouched lately, reduced wages for this chant. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Don't go that way. And finally... I think that's what Senator Zdrojewska said or someone else said. When I was still young and trained, in postgraduate studies the professor taught us management and said: don't be managers, just people managing projects. He showed what management is and what management is. And on this subject he said: if you don't know what to do anymore, because it happens in life that you don't know what to do, you don't have enough knowledge and experience, then do two things. First, have a meeting with trade unions and employee council, and second, establish regulations, strengthen your position through regulations. And you want to do the same thing again, something that will build the Senate's position through regulations. And finally, to remember: once Einstein this kind of pursuit, action... As a science lover, Einstein has developed a pattern that I'll show you. This is the pattern of Einstein: ego equals 1 by knowledge. For those of you who have average knowledge of mathematics, let me say this: this formula shows that the less knowledge you have, the greater your ego. And we want to build this ego with less knowledge, not more knowledge in discussion, in conversation, in arguing, etc. So I encourage you to copy this pattern of Einstein and keep him in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The order is great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u93	You have a voice, Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] I'll say very briefly. I'm sure we have to agree that... [[Quiet, please. Keep your conversations down, sir, because the senator's talking.]] ...there's a difference between the Seym and the Senate. And here you agree with Senator Borowski. But there's a job Mr. Blackbay has put in front of the senators. To quietly, without increasing attendance, to be on demonstrations I did it, I did it three times. So maybe it's true, if you look at this manifestation that was under the Senate, I was doing my turnout... [[Which side were you on?]] [[Incognito.]] Incognito, incognito. [[But on which side?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, allow me to speak. Everyone's already said, Mr. Senator didn't say.]] Senator of the Platform I'm going to say it again, for the sake of understanding, he insisted on going to the manifestation. And he did a certain glorification of what it is that is cheerful, joyful, etc. I was. There's been a lot of vulgarity. There were a lot of elements that crossed the line of something called symbolic aggression. So it's not like it's just like the picture you presented, with the young girls that are manifesting, etc. Of course, we need to address what Senator Borowski said about why this is happening. Thank you for the Einstein pattern, thank you for the phrase: for those who do not understand mathematics. And I believe that this change, which will be, will not be a change in which the marshal will be able to punish for promoting presumptuousness here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u95	Thank you. [[I don't understand math...]] [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] In what mode? Mr. Senator, in what mode? [[Five minutes.]] You said once, now you're entitled to five minutes. There you go. [[Voice from the room: However.]] [[You've got your five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u96	No, it's less than that. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! First of all, if anyone was offended by the phrase "for those who do not understand mathematics..." I only said it in good faith. But maybe in fact... Otherwise, I'm sure it sounded like the senator said, and that's why those who were offended by this statement, I'm sorry. [[Humanists.]] That wasn't my intention. I just know my friends who don't know math, and these kinds of patterns I have to explain to them. But maybe it's too much simplification. Therefore, I am very sorry if anyone is offended, and especially Senator Oremski, I am sorry, because I know that he is a man who understands not only mathematics but also sociological events. And that's what I'd like to go with. Here's what I'm gonna say: we've probably been to two different places. # There's so much going on now # The demonstration. Maybe the senator was at a demonstration on November 11th where things happen? What I'm trying to say is that even if... I can't rule it out and say that there's only angels coming in there, that there's no passwords, and so on. I didn't hear it yesterday. You'll be sitting outside, but it's mild... what else was raining... Well, there weren't any slogans like that... [[And you're gonna hang?]] I swear I didn't hear you. But if you're making extra money... If someone yelled like that... I'd like to say yes. The senator, as it were, confirms this country's golden method: there are 10,000 judges, 1 stole pants because he's mentally ill, so you say... [[Voice from the room: Fear to be afraid.]] ...you have to take everyone under your shoe because this one stole pants. Someone out there screamed to hang or something. This, of course, is reprehensible and should be branded; I absolutely disagree with such shouts. And the state says, well, that's what the passwords were there. I'll go back to our backyard. If any of us are senators The example of all of us is that... well, someone got drunk, slept, or discussed with the police with their fists. Does this mean the whole Senate is that we're all like this? That's one thing. Secondly, sometimes everyone has the right to a moment of weakness, of oblivion. I do not absolve those people who have behaved reprehensiblely, but I have no condemnation for them either. And the speeches, Mr. Senator, I was there and I heard them screaming, and here you are quoting That's the method. Among 10,000 people, we'll find this one, and we'll show him that his behavior is a rule. In Mathematics You know her well. There's a rule. Not small numbers, big numbers. Therefore, it is better to take examples from most than to take 1 little example from 10,000 and say that this is wrong. The same method can be applied to senators, senate... [[Judges.]] ...judges It's for all the environments. I don't think we should do this. If there were such voices, I am sorry, and I hope they were isolated, individual voices, and they are not characteristic and do not give a tone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u97	Thank you. Senator Oremski again. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u98	Like the Seym, 30 seconds... Mr. Senator, I can't please you. You say go to the demonstration. That's where I'm going. And then when I tell you what I saw, you resent that it wasn't in this phase that... I never participated in the demonstrations on November 11th... [[Voice from the room: It's a shame.]] [[That's too bad.]] [[Senator...]] [[And that's why we need to introduce regulations...]] I think there's a difference... what I've been talking about, what I've experienced on this manifestation, it wasn't just shouting from the side. It was a mike shout. And it was a little shocking to me that very often things with vulgarism were shouted into the microphone. That's all. Well, you can't postulate to participate in something... Like I said, I did my homework because I was there. And then you attack me again... Come on, please. [[Am I attacking you? Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u99	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich, you have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u100	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Look, I'm listening to this with some complete horror. An intelligent man, an educated man... Don't you guys even see where this is going? Come on, guys, take it easy. I mean, here for an hour or a half, you're talking about shutting up the opposition. This is a fight between two worlds. Don't you see what's happening? I go to these demonstrations, there's... This is a worldview dispute and about democracy. How can you even talk here in this room with any smile that's okay? Look how many of us here are older people who have done something for this country. And you follow the way of Orbán, and in a moment it will be Belarus, it is obvious, there is no doubt about it. I'm asking... Who am I gonna ask? I'm an emotional man and I've tried not to perform today... How am I supposed to define a bill that's stupid, stupid, stupid? Can't I just add an adjective because I'm about to get punished and locked up? Guys, come on, take it easy! 'Cause I'm looking at it scared, just like everybody else here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u101	The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, I'd like to be heard. I'm announcing important information that depends on when we go home and when we meet again. Mr. Senator... So we refer the matter to the Legislative Committee and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Mr Senator Słoń has requested that the committees be given a time limit for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. [[I object.]] If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. If there's an objection... [[There it is.]] Mr. Marshal would like to justify it, or is he just objecting? [[I object...]] Are you objecting? Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u102	I object. I believe that the discussion shows that these rules should not be adopted today at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u103	Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute break. There'll be a vote after the break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 56 to 12 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent, stop talking, because we are going to vote now. There is a request from Senator Elephant that the Senate consider an additional report at this meeting for the purpose of carrying out a third reading. And there's an objection, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm asking for a vote. Who's in favour of Senator Elephant's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 53 senators voted, 36 were in favour of Senator Słoń's motion, 17 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] I state that Senator Elephant's motion has been supported. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2017. The text of the report is contained in print No 884. I ask Senator Robert Mammothov to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2017. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, senators to the right! [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] And to the left, too. Quiet, please. The rapporteur will present a report to the Human Rights Committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of my friends used to talk to me about making it short. Everyone wants to go home, I suspect. So I would like to tell you that all the information on petitions received in 2017 in the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions is included in print No 884. There are detailed topics for petitions that have come in at that time. Maybe just two or three sentences. I would like to stress that although the petition law entered into force on 6 September 2015, the Senate Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has been examining petitions for 9 years under the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate Rules of Procedure. In 2017, 54 petitions were submitted to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, including 36 individual, 17 collective and 1 multiple petitions, supported by over 1 000 100 people. On the basis of the petitions received last year in the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, legislative work has been undertaken on 4 petitions. They are, so to speak, half realized, 2 of them, after the Senate passed the resolution, were implemented by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and 2 are still at the stage of the committee's work. That's it. I would ask you to accept this information contained in Senate paper No. 884. If there are any questions, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u105	Thank you, Senator. Would any of you senators like to ask the rapporteur a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. There was, I think, a petition about a clause of conscience. Could you tell the senator where the work is at, and what is the committee's position on this issue? Thank you very much. [[Maybe more...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u107	The final decision is not yet made. The Commission is working on this petition. I mean, after petitioning the committee, the committee decides whether or not she'll be working on this petition at all. The committee's decision today is to take preliminary legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u108	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u109	Mr. Senator, would you be able to tell if these petitions have come, gone, or is it the same? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u110	This is maintained at about the same level.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u111	You're asking Senator Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u112	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, if you could exchange those petitions on which work has been undertaken, their titles, if you have it in front of you, I would appreciate it. Because it's, as you can see from what you've been saying, a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u114	I'll tell you what. First of all, a draft law amending the Public Road Act. The aim of the project is to clarify the rules on toll-parking zones in such a way as to make it clear that parking fees are not charged on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. And there's work in progress in the Sejm on this project. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments given against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish state. The aim of the project is to grant children whose mothers were deprived of liberty, born in Stalin's prisons and other places of isolation or whose mother, during pregnancy, was in such places, entitled to compensation or compensation from the State Treasury for the repression suffered. And that bill was passed. The Sejm adopted the Act amending the Act at its 60th meeting on 22 March 2018. Thirdly, a draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The project aims to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of a police officer who has been discharged from the service for reasons of disciplinary punishment of expulsion from the service for an act fulfilling both the marks of the offence and the disciplinary offence. Similarly, it is also proposed to introduce provisions concerning officers of all uniformed services: Border Guard, Security Agency, etc. The project is underway in the Sejm. There's already a 2185 sejm printing and work is being done. The fourth project: a draft law amending the Juvenile Procedure Act. The project implements the request of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights following the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on the issue of extending the stay of minors in a youth hostel. The draft provides that the provision to extend the stay of a minor in a shelter before bringing the case to trial may lead to an extension of that stay for a total period of not more than 3 months. The Sejm is working on this bill. Well, I'd have to keep going, because there's a few more laws, petitions that went through the Human Rights Committee and thanks to which the Sejm took up the legislative work. There's a couple of them, but I'd have to spend a lot of time discussing them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u115	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, two short questions. First of all, thank you for this reply to Senator Szymański, but I have a question: what does it look like in relation to previous years and term of office to take legislative initiatives in connection with pending petitions? [[The voice from the room: He said...]] He wasn't talking about that, Mr. Senator. I'm so sorry. And what I'm a little curious about is that we're usually dealing with this committee decision: in the vote, the senators decided not to work further on the petition. Isn't there... I, of course, do not know the exact content of these petitions, I am only talking about the material we have received. Isn't it worth at least some of them being sent to the Senate's analysis office to explore the relevance of these petitions? 'Cause that's not the kind of decision the committee's gonna make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u118	Dear Senator, when it comes to the first question, let me say that we are talking about 2017. I wasn't prepared to talk about 2016. But if it had to be, then... If I remember correctly, the size is similar. I don't know what that means, but it does. As far as the second question is concerned, I'm going to say that the petitions that go to the committee, the committee after the discussion, after the examination... In general, the committee receives a number of supporting materials for a petition. We often go to resorts, ministries that help us make decisions. But there are petitions in which someone, for example. writes to raise the lowest pension .. such petitions come to pass. And we know that it's already elevated. Then we don't work on the petition because there's no need.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u119	Thank you. The question is asked by Senator Jackowski. [[Come on, Jackie!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. There may be situations where, as regards individual petitions, there are different views, different opinions, not only senators of the members of the High Commission, but also experts. Please explain what the procedure is then. Before the committee makes a final decision, does it initiate a procedure for this petition, or does it immediately renounce it, refuse to work at all on its scope? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u121	I think I answered that question, but I'll say it again. The Commission, when it first examines the petition at its first meeting, is asking for opinions. It is often the case that, at the very meeting, if we have any doubts, as members of the committee, whether going this way or not, or not taking the work or taking it, we are trying to make a final decision when we already know as much as possible: how it is in resorts, as it is in the Ministry of Labour, as it is in the Ministry of Justice. After such opinions, we finally make a decision. It's rare for a committee at the first meeting to reject a petition. Of course, there are situations like this, but it's like I said, when there are obvious cases, because someone is petitioning for what is being done, or the minister in the department states that this is in the process, at the consultation stage in the ministries, that it will already be done. We often postpone this petition for 3 months, and often, if we are sure that such action is being taken, we die.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u122	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I thank the senator for presenting his report and say that the Senate took note of the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2017. Let me remind you that point thirty-eighth, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and the two-century existence of his work, the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw, and the thirtieth ninth, i.e. Information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2017 has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has addressed to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs the application of the accuser of the subsidiary of the Association of the Civil Network Watchdog Polska Senator Sławomir Rybicki agreed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Sławomir Rybicki liable. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. It is contained in print No 904. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission, following the examination of the proposal referred to by the Marshal, on 10 July 2018, pursuant to Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, submit a proposal to reject the application submitted on 30 April 2018 by the Association of the Civic Network Watchdog, represented by the legal adviser Adam Kuczyński, to allow the Senate of the Republic of Poland to draw Sławomir Rybicki to criminal liability. The meeting examined the application of the Association, which was submitted on 30 April to the Marshal of the Senate. The applicant accuses the senator of violating the provisions of the Public Information Act by not providing information on the contracts and expenditure incurred by the bump committee he led in 2015. Senator Sławomir Rybicki has already made a statement that he is not giving up his parliamentary immunity. At the committee meeting, Mr Senator presented the reasons for his position, indicating inter alia. on the fact that the prosecution's investigation has been terminated twice because of the lack of evidence of a prohibited act. In this situation, in view of the refusal of the Attorney General to refer the application to the Senate Marshal for the waiver of immunity, the applicant himself applied to the court and, as a subsidiary prosecutor, addressed the application to the Senate Marshal himself before the committee. Senator Rybicki also answered the questions of the senators, members of the Rules of Procedure Committee, gave a clear background to the events that took place at the time, and, in short, the calendar of the actions undertaken by the Committee. He also referred to the fact that the committee complied correctly with the reports before the state's electoral authorities, as well as that the content of the citizens' network, the association, had been passed on. After the discussion, the committee voted to recommend that the High Senate reject the application of the Association of the Civic Network Watchdog Polska for consent by the Senate to draw Senator Sławomir Rybicki to criminal liability for the actions alleged in this application to the senator. So I repeat once again: there is the position of the committee and the proposal to reject the association's request to accept Senator Sławomir Rybicki's criminal liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u124	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. Senator Szymanski came forward. There you go. [[It's obvious.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u125	I would just like to ask for an explanation of the vote, i.e. whether the committee voted unanimously on the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u126	As I recall, the result was unanimous.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u127	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question... Because I heard, I read that parallel applications were also addressed to the Sejm. Please inform the High House of the response of the Sejm to such requests by the said entity to both chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u130	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, because Marshal Stanisław Karczewski at least twice called for proposals to be completed or made procedurally appropriate, I also believe that this was the basis for the fact that applications made in the Sejm concerning other persons, Members, were not considered there, in my knowledge. I am not sure that they were not considered only after the committee's decision to see if they would be still under the Sejm. As far as I know, they won't go to the Sejm because the committee responsible for their opinion has decided so.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u131	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Sławomir Rybicki like to make an explanation? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Literally dozens of sentences of explanation, because the report does not include, cannot include the substance of the case. I found out that there was a case that pertained to the distant past, when the motion came into the Senate, in March. From this conclusion I learned that an indictment, a subsidiary, or private indictment addressed to the District Court, entered the District Court in Warsaw. And in this indictment, there's a couple of people together. I want to say this because it matters in the material context of this whole thing. This proposal concerns: Jarosław Kaczyński, President of the Law and Justice Party; Ewa Kopacz, President of the Civic Platform Party; Grzegorz Schetin, President of the Civic Platform Party; Teresa Schubert, financial representative of the electoral committee of Andrzej Duda; Krzysztof Sobolewski, electoral representative of the electoral committee of Andrzej Duda; Łukasz Pawełek, financial representative of the electoral committee of Bronisław Komorowski, and finally Sławomir Rybicki, electoral representative of the electoral committee of Bronisław Komorowski. Mr Elephant has already said that the prosecutor's office has twice discontinued proceedings on this matter without finding any grounds. Namely, the public prosecutor did not find any reasons why an investigation should be initiated, due to the lack of detection of the perpetrators or the absence of any criminal record. Similarly, the Attorney General has not decided to act as an intermediary for this request. And what does that involve? This is also the result of the annexes I learned about, like the others, I think. Last time I saw him, he wasn't there. Namely, it turns out that on 12 May 2015, i.e. 2 days after the results of the first round of elections were announced, the Watchdog representative sent an e-mail to the addressees that he expects a list of contracts concluded by election committees and political parties to be sent under the Public Information Act. And what matters in my case, I was a proxy, not a manager, but a proxy. I would remind you that there's still a financial proxy on every committee. The expectation expressed in the e-mail was directed not to the electoral committee, but to the electoral staff, who had a different address, another cast. I was not a member of the electoral staff, which is kind of important in the legal qualification of this act. And in the heat of the campaign. I suppose so, I suppose. Just one of the thousands of e-mails that went to the staff during this period was not treated with due respect, as Watchdog expected. Watchdog waited for the right time and followed the path of criminal proceedings, and it is very important that one of the main principles of Polish criminal law is its subsidiarity. Until you run out of other roads... In this case, the association should use the way of proceedings before a voivodship administrative court, possibly by complaining about the inactivity of persons who were obliged. Well, they were obliged, but they didn't know it. And the association, without using the administrative route, immediately went on a criminal road. Let me just say that the Public Information Act states that an act referred to in this Act has been committed as prohibited if 4 conditions are met in total. There must be a statutory obligation to provide information to a specific natural person to whom the complaint is based. That's not the kind of duty on an election attorney. This is not based on any regulations, because the proxy is not the head of the institution. He's just a polling agent for a few months who reports and registers a candidate, but he doesn't deal with this whole area of contracts, commitments, finances. In addition, a request for public information should be addressed to a specific natural person to whom the complaint is made. I didn't get a question like that sent to me. This was sent to another institution, to the electoral staff. Finally, this particular person That's the third condition. The person accused must be in possession of this information and the electoral representative is not in possession of information concerning contracts and obligations, because this is, in accordance with the electoral code, the domain of the financial proxy. And the fourth condition is that the person who is obliged must know that he is obliged, have these materials and consciously evade. Well, in this case, that's not the case. So no reason has been fulfilled. What can I say? Well, I'll say it's a paradoxical situation. The parallel proposal was sent to Members, but in the Sejm the committee requested legal expertise, which showed that this proposal was simply inadmissible. It's not like that in the Senate. I'm not gonna comment on that. And finally, this general remark. I ask you, if people who have important public functions are leaders of political parties, it was so easy to formulate an indictment and enforce it in a situation where a public prosecutor has not found a reason for doing so, that would mean that, on the basis of private indictments, the political leaders of political parties can be eliminated from their lives. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say that the committees actually... Well, I can talk about the electoral committee of Bronisław Komorowski. This committee has submitted a report within the time limit and has been adopted. There's basically all the information there. They were available to everyone, also to Watchdog, but Watchdog still wanted to enforce what had already been made available. The Civic Platform, when it was informed that there was such expectation, sent out all the contracts, so the institution concerned, which is Watchdog, has these documents. I think what's at stake here is what I've already told you. If there are any questions, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u133	Do any of you senators want to ask a question about this? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u134	I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Legislative Committee will take place 5 minutes after the adjournment in room 176 is announced. The meeting will deal with the requests submitted to the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: In which room?]] Room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u135	I declare adjournment until 1:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 29 to 13 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u136	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will be held on 26, 27 and 28 September 2018. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 900 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation did not support any of the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know we're all tired and we're on our way to the end of work. I just want you to feel free to vote for the amendment that gives local governments It's about cities that are spa towns and cities where presidents rule the right to establish a mid-urban parking zone. If we want towns like Sopot and Zakopane not to drown in the exhaust gas, we will enable local government to do so. To those who fear that local governments will abuse it, I remind you: in a moment's time, the elections. They're still under pressure from their residents, so they won't make rash decisions. I recommend this amendment to your attention and kindness.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u140	Excuse me, I don't have a card. [[The Marshal has that card?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is this card?]] Got it. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments; Senate print No 910 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Valour and some other laws. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 916 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture and Media. The amendment on the editorial character corrects the error in the name of the Center for Totalitarian Research. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 24 for, 59 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 16]] I therefore propose that the law be adopted without amendment. We proceed with the vote on my motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, it's not here yet. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 61 votes against, 7 against and 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Care and some other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposal presented in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 915 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday a meeting of the Health Committee was held because Senator Tomasz Grodzki's motion to reject the bill was received. We voted, six senators were in favour, i.e. For the law to be adopted without amendments and 1 against.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u142	Thank you very much. Does the senator, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u143	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. Well, the senator's been flunking because at my request... 6 was against my motion, and I was the only one who was in favor of... [[One person, Mr. Senator.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u144	We understand. Well, thank you, we'll know more. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed to the... Anything else? Senator, is there anything else the senator has to say? [[I'm sorry, but I was talking about passing the bill without any amendments.]] [[Then it was... yeah.]] Oh, right. I'm the one who knows everything. Good. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Tomasz Grodzki's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 62 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the Health Commission to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drug Act and the Law on the State Sanitary Inspection. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 930 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 88 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the State Sanitary Inspection. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Agricultural Tax Act, the Act on Local Taxes and Charges and the Forest Tax Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 919 A and 919 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on agricultural tax, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 894 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. We are returning to the eleventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Animal Identification and Registration System. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 913 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 87 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of Identification and Registration of Animals. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print Nos 918 A and 918 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 senators voted in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out in respect of certain agricultural markets. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 929 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 87 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out in respect of certain agricultural markets. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 895 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome, we're giving you the results. 89 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 892 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 85 in favour, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Election Code. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of committees ask for the rejection of the law and for amendments to the Act; Senate print No 909 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law, followed by a vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous two proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 28 for, 61 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees, in which the committees request the adoption of this law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 60 for, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Election Code. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate print No 921 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 85 were in favour, three were held up, no one was against it. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on subscription fees. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 917 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have the silence, please? Because it doesn't matter. Unless you want a break? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 Senators voted, 76 for, 4 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law - Press Law. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 922 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 82 for, 3 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law "Press Law." We are returning to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the Act amending the IWT Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate print No 908 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a vote on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 takes into account in the provision authorising the seat of inland waterway authorities and their delegations to be laid down in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 26 votes against, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 modifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 89 senators voted against, 27 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 34]] I therefore propose that the law be adopted without amendment. And we are voting on my motion to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 66 votes against, 17 against and 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the IWT Act. We are returning to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 912 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 88 senators voted, 70 for, 4 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the law on amending the law on things found. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; print No 920 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 82 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Things Found. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the State Protection Service. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 907 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 87 Senators, 79 votes against, 4 against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the State Protection Service. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws to reduce the social security contributions of natural persons carrying out business activities on a smaller scale. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject, is in print No 914 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Four legislative proposals were received at the meeting of the joint committees. None of them got the majority. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u146	Thank you very much. Does Senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? Mr. Senator? [[No.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 89 senators voted, 64 votes against, 7 against, 18 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in order to reduce the social contributions of natural persons carrying out business activities on a smaller scale. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law amending the law The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 923 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 83 votes in favour, no one voted against, five senators abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on public procurement and the law amending the law on public procurement and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The Environment Committee and the Infrastructure Committee have submitted a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; print No 931 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 62 for, 5 against, 22 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Protection Law. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 925 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 62 votes against, 16 against and 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; print No 911 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 84 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. We return to the examination of the item on the 29th agenda: the Act on the Polish Economic Institute. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 924 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 63 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Polish Economic Institute. We return to the 30th agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 901 A and 901 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959. We return to the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Mongolia on social security, signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 926 A and 926 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between Rzeczpospolita Polska and Mongolia on social security, signed in Warsaw on 24 January 2018. We return to the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 6 May 1993. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 927 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're giving you the results. 87 senators voted... 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Estonia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 6 May 1993. We return to the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 928 A and 928 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of Ecuador's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 11 November 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 801 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the fifth agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. Let me remind you that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 802 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on the project. We return to the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 934 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present an additional report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees at the joint meeting discussed today the draft resolution and the proposals submitted to this project during the second reading. The Commission supported the proposals set out in points 3 and 6 of Section II. They ask for their adoption by the Senate together with the draft resolution contained in print No. 934 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. During second reading, legislative proposals were tabled. The senators can still speak and I ask them if they want to Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Alexander Potej and Senator Jan Rulewski. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Very briefly, I promise. I would like to ask my colleagues in Law and Justice with one request. Abstracting from whether these changes are going in the right direction or in the wrong direction I think it's in the wrong direction. I would very much like, as I said earlier, that if we change our rules and if we accept certain solutions, we would not automatically take over them from the Sejm, we would only work alone in this Chamber, stressing in this way, although symbolically, our independence from the lower chamber. I know it's hard to vote differently if discipline is required, but I'd like to show you the gate. Well, I think that there is one possibility that you will be able to respond boldly to any charge if you abstain. This has been the interpretation of the vote on the President's referendum since yesterday. If you hold back, it is certainly only the Civic Platform that will be responsible for the outcome of the vote, and the State will not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u150	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the provisions of the draft. Following the vote on the amendments tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety - Senator's print No 934 S - as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the senator's motion to reject the draft resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 60 against. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 reinstates the opinion of the Senate's Statute by the bureau and the rule-of-law committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 2 adds another condition that the Marshal may order a reduction in the senator's salary or diet. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 59 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 3 clarifies the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 32 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 4 allows the senator to express active regret and voluntary punishment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 21 votes against, 63 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 5 gives the punished senator the right to appeal to the Rules of Procedure and to use the assistance of the defender. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 34 for, 52 against. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 6 harmonises the date of entry into force of the amendment. 25a of the Rules of Procedure on the date of entry into force of the amendment of the Act implementing the mandate of Member and Senator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 89 senators, 62 votes against, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 57]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety, with changes resulting... from one amendment adopted, right? [[Voices from the O.R.: Two.]] Two. Well, that's from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 57 votes against, 28 votes against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee proposes to reject the application of the Association of the Civic Network Watchdog Poland to consent by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki. We are voting for consent to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki. The Senate agrees that the senator should be held liable by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Not getting the required majority... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...for the marshal one more time...]] [[Voice from the room: You have to go against...]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't entered the vote yet so that you can analyze... Have we entered? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...for rejection.]] [[Voice from the room: Against...]] It hasn't been... Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'll read you very calmly again and think about it. We are voting for consent to the criminal liability of Senator Sławomir Rybicki. The Senate agrees that the senator should be held liable by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the senator's criminal liability. We're voting. Who's in favor of saying... Now I'm asking you a specific question. [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Who's in favour of allowing the senator to be held liable? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, no one was in favour, 88 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 59]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate has adopted a resolution on not allowing the senator to be held liable... [[Three more.]] [[Voice from the room: Not yet...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] One more point to vote on. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...Improving Senator Sławomir Rybicki's criminal liability. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality and the Act on National Tax Administration. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 891 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting on 26 July, the Commission examined the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law. The Commission did not support any of the proposals submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u152	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Are you Senator George Wright? Senator Kazimierz Klein? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn? We'll proceed with the vote. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution taken in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to enable the sorting of imported household coal into Poland, which does not comply with the requirements of the quality regulation on graining, before sorting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 60]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 corrects the reference and thus sanctiones the criminal provision for the introduction of non-sorted non-sorted fuels into the municipal sector. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 27 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 61]] In that case, I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour of my motion to adopt a law without amendment? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 14 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the system of monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on the National Tax Administration. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 60th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u153	Mr. Marshal! Dear colleagues! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Environment, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk. Dear Minister, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Minister's Regulation of 29 December 2016 on the detailed method of selective collection of selected fractions of waste so-called. multi-material packaging precipitation shall be collected in yellow containers marked with the inscription "metals and plastics." Multi-material packaging shall be considered to be packs made of at least 2 different materials which cannot be manually separated by simple mechanical methods. The number of such packages, commonly referred to as cartons, is systematically increasing. Manufacturers, for practical reasons, prefer such packaging because they are lighter, non-breaking, easy to transport and store and hygienic and allow longer storage of food products. The second group of multi-material packagings are so-called. medicines blisters. According to publicly available data and information provided by both packaging manufacturers and the recycling industry, multi-material packaging is mainly made up of paper, almost 80%. The remaining parts are plastic and aluminum coatings. Therefore, the recovery of raw materials derived from such packaging is mainly interested in paper mills, for which it is an important source of valuable cellulose fibre. The recycling of aluminium and polyethylene remains a major problem, i.e. other components of multi-dimensional packaging. At the same time, I hear that the vast majority of multi-material packaging goes to combustion in incineration plants because of its high calorific value. Such practices conflict with the idea of a circular economy. Only residual waste should be burned, not full-value raw material waste. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What is the total mass of waste that constitutes material packaging, these multi-dimensional, in the years 2015 and 2017? How much of this type of waste is recycled and how much does it get into landfills or thermal installations for waste conversion? Is the Ministry considering amending the Selective Waste Collection Regulation and qualifying multi-dimensional packaging for paper? Is work being done to ensure effective sorting of multi-material packaging from the general stream of municipal waste in modern municipal waste sorting plants? Does the environmental ministry support s, if so, how . initiatives for the production of raw materials recovered from used multi-material packaging? High-quality cellulose fibre is recovered in Poland, for example. plates used in the construction and furniture industries are produced in Germany. And finally, one last question. Is the introduction of a circular economy supported by innovative measures, which are so much said, which allow for the full recovery of aluminium and polyethylene from multi-material packaging? Does the Ministry plan to reduce the market share of disposable packaging, including so-called cartons, or to force such packaging to participate actively in the recycling process? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u154	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm making a statement on behalf of a group of senators. I am directing this statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Joachim Brudziński. On 26 and 20 July, police brutally intervened against protesters against destroying the independence of the judiciary. Protests and demonstrations are a recognised form of social dissatisfaction in a democratic country. The role of the police is to guarantee them maximum safety and, above all, to avoid provocations that could provoke riots. Unfortunately, we see that the police themselves become a provocator and their aggressive behaviour seeks to transform peaceful demonstrations into a confrontation of power with society. Yesterday, July 26th at the Presidential Palace, the police used tear gas. A large number of demoists, swollen, tearing, had to be given medical help. Many were subjected to aggressive legit action. In many cases, it was only the police's behaviour that eased the awareness that opposition parliamentarians were witnesses. On July 20, at the Seym, just like yesterday at the Presidential Palace, the police used force against the demonstrators. A dozen people were beaten and beaten. Many had to be given medical care, including hospital care. These police actions, their brutality and scale find no justification. We view them as an attempt to intimidate society before participating in demonstrations to defend freedom and democracy. Poles participating in the protests shall be warned that they may be beaten or recorded in police files. Such behaviour reminds us too clearly of the actions of the Civic Militia and the ZOMO in the times of the Polish People's Republic, even during the demonstrations on 3 May or 11 November, on the celebration of independence. There are more and more protests against police brutalization. The open letter of scientists and students from Krakow has already been signed by about 2 thousand people. Also, police unionists alarm and remind that the police are a political formation and the integration of police into political rhetoric is unacceptable. We, the undersigned, also protest against violence against demonstrators. We expect an accurate report indicating who ordered the police to aggressively attack the protesters and who ordered the use of tear gas. Why were these acts of strangulation, beating, using tear gases more like hooligan pranks than professional demonstration protection? We look forward to an urgent response to these questions and to the restoration of standards of the rule of law in police action. Poland and Poles need police, who have confidence, not fear in society. The statement was signed by 28 senators: Mieczysław Augustyn, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Leszek Czarnobaj, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Piotr Florek, Tomasz Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Filip Libicki, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Grzegorz Napierowalski, Aleksander Potij, Marian Poślednik, Marek Rocki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Sławomir Rybicki, Waldemar Sługocki, Grażyna Sztark, Przemysław Termiński, Piotr Wach, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski and Jerzy Wcisła. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u156	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Gawel. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u157	Mr. Marshal, the statement is addressed to the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. 15 August 2018 will take place a parade on the occasion of the Polish Army Day. In connection with the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, it is intended to be of a special nature and therefore the Ministry invited reconstructive groups from all over the country to cooperate. Over six months ago, the coordinator of reconstructors of Wielkopolska troops was asked to prepare about 100 people for the Warsaw parade. The list of participants was delivered to Warsaw in February. During this time, young people regularly conducted exercises and supplemented very expensive equipment to participate in such a high event and proudly represent Wielkopolska. In June they were informed that the organizers reduced the number of reconstructors from their group to 60. In this situation, all of them jointly resigned from the parade. I would like to express my deep regret about the lack of a group of reconstructive troops in Wielkopolska on this unique parade. In my opinion, the irresponsible actions of officials have undermined the credibility of the ministry and depreciate the importance of the office in the eyes of patriotic youth. I ask the Minister to answer who is personally responsible for the preparation of this event and to clarify this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Arthur Warzocha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to provide information on the application for a grant for the renovation of the Theatre. Adam Mickiewicz in Czestochowa. This request was rejected by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the renovation of the theatre was removed from the list of key projects implemented from the 2014-2020 envelope. This decision met with severe criticism of the current city authorities, the coalition of the SLD, the Civic Platform, and led to a political, non-essential attack against politicians, including parliamentarians of Law and Justice from the Częstochowa district and the heads of the Ministry of Culture. However, there is no doubt that the renovation of the Theatre im. Mickiewicz in Częstochowa is necessary and it is impossible to finance it only from the budget of the municipality. I would therefore ask you to clarify the situation and to identify ways to carry out this task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski has also volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u161	Mr. Marshal, I understand your surprise about my dress, but health reasons are in favour of wearing a costume like this, I'd say... Almost all Poles wear it at the moment. And I would like to make a statement addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski. It concerns the situation in my constituency, but not only. As you know, the National Sugar Company collects a sugar flower, including two in my constituency. In 2011, they were to be privatised by the privatisation process of workers and growers, or, in fact, the other way around: planters and workers. To this end, the Act authorised the Minister responsible At that time, the Minister of Property Transformations was required to issue regulations. Such regulations have been issued. In fact, it was distributed among the growers. Of course, it is not the fault of the central authorities of the Polish state that the shares fell into the wrong hands, and therefore this privatisation was counterproductive and even had a criminal element in it. However, Minister, it has been many years since then, including three years of the current coalition, which, as you know, focuses on employee shares and supports agriculture. I have not noticed that any action has been taken to get out of this deadlock, which is that the provisions of the Act are not being implemented, that growers and workers are not involved in the process of statutory transformations. The situation is all the more bad because in the meantime the European Union has abolished sugar quotas, which has brought full free circulation on the market. And it is not known how the market will behave, but today we know for sure that 600 000 t sugar has not been sent abroad under favourable conditions. This and other considerations, for example, that we are dealing with, as I have calculated, with another, third already change of the authorities of this company, supervisory authorities, such from the bottom up, just because the minister has changed, makes me worry about the fate of the Polish estate. All the more so because it is a property that, contrary to everything, has achieved great success in terms of transformations. And this was due to the actions of the management boards and, of course, the central authorities. It seems to me that through the drift of this company effort, the great effort of even one of the Members, Janowski, whose, nomen omen, non-regular behavior was also known, which caused us to be proud of the Polish Sugar Company... We can also be proud that the crops of this land work for the whole of Poland. Unfortunately, as I repeat, time is running out and no decision is made. Besides, it's not just my opinion. Recently, at meetings of the planter's union, this problem was demanded to be resolved. They do not even impose solutions directly, but it seems that a solution based on the joint participation of those who produce raw material, those who process this raw material, and those who sell it, is the most advantageous solution, because it creates sustainable, natural production relationships and of course profit participation. That is why I call on the newly appointed Minister, who is also a Kujawsko-Pomorskie citizen, to take decisive action so that this success does not turn into a failure. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-27-senat-64-4.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Sixty-fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. Thank you. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 18]]
