ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u1	I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. We're waiting for the nouns. So, colleagues, please hold the registration and please register. [[10:05:20]] 367 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues, Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri. Hello. And Yuri Vitaliovich Odarchenka. I would also like to inform you that on this day of April 5 at the Cossacks' Assembly near the town of Tragina on the right bank of the river Dniester, in 1710, the first Constitution of Philip Orlik was adopted and thus the constitution was established in Ukraine. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that today, as we have agreed at the last meeting of the factions' heads with the MEPs, there are two laws on parliamentary reform. But before considering those laws, I have proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. I think it will be right for us to start our day in the Clean Thursday with a law that will help the religious organizations of Ukraine in relations with the state. This law is not complicated, it is technical. And so, I think it would be right if we could look at it in a simplified way and go to the laws of Parliament reform. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready to vote. And once again, the first law is simple, but it's a good sign for religious organizations, and let's support its consideration of the simplified procedure. Please prepare for the vote. And we're going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (registration of documents of religious organizations) (No. 6642). And I'm going to put the motion to a vote now to consider it as a reduced procedure. Will you support me, colleagues? You'll support it. Will you keep it short? Can we vote? Please prepare for the vote. And I'd like to support the 6642 review by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:08:36]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ungurian Pavel Jakimovitch. Mr. Paul, your initiative, your report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u2	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues! It's Thursday. Today, that day is special in the heart of all Christians in Ukraine, regardless of religion. This is the day on which we mention the most dramatic events in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. The day he was preparing to go to the Cross. And on that day he washed the feet of his disciples, and those who would soon betray him would disown him. But he showed an example of real leadership, an example of real service is to be smaller. If you want to lead the way, it's to serve people. And this is an example for us, as MPs, for parliamentarians. On this day we ask to vote on Bill 6642, a technical bill prepared for the request of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches. And according to the references and the patriarchs and the leaders of religious organizations, regardless of religion or religious affiliation. When we voted with you on anti-residering laws, we made it difficult for legal persons to forget that religious organizations are not commercial legal persons, then we made exceptions for charitable, for professional, for social organizations, but we forgot once again that religious people have their separate legal status. So today, technically, we have to make these technical changes and compare them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u4	And to compare religious organizations in their registration status to social, professional and charitable organizations. I think that if there are voices, we can be on both the basis and the whole. If the committee has a different position, we can briefly vote in favour of a shorter second -- until the second reading of the preparation. And one more thing, colleagues, tomorrow's Passion Friday, we invite everyone to the tree landing tomorrow at 12 o'clock in Marian Park, come on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u5	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u6	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Two major innovations of this bill: simplifying the registration of religious organizations, doing what it is for public associations today, for charitable organizations, it is fair, it is right and, in addition, freeing religious organizations just as today freed professional associations and charities from paying administrative fees to the public. Dear colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, claims that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, in its decision, stresses that the proposed changes will contribute to the state’s commitment to freedom of opinion and religion, freedom to engage in religious activities, and recommends the adoption of a bill. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill, the National Deputies, the members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship have reviewed the bill, considered its standards to be valid and recommending that the draft law be adopted in the first reading as a basis of – I would stress – shortening the timeframe to speed up its preparation for the second reading. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the bill today as a whole, since a previously passed law on a limited liability society that takes effect on June 17th. And there's a need to harmonize the standards of these bills that we have to get to the second reading. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to support you on the basis of shortening the terms for consideration to second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Wadatoursky Andrews. He's giving the speech to Juliana Nina Petrovney. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! In fact, the changes described by the drafters are essential. But I suggest that we accept only in the first reading for the reason that we have to be clear about how we changed the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, and for what? Because, indeed, by 2016, notoriety of the signatures of the participants was not required for all participants in loving forms of legal persons. But since January 1, 2016, we have set a new standard, and this has been done more than that. Now we need to know exactly whether in all cases we have to cancel the notary certificate for religious organizations. For example, I believe that a transferable act in the event of merger, integration, conversion and distribution balance should be notarized, more faithful signatures. By signing such an act. Because this applies to both large and valuable assets. Because if we're talking about just charities, they might not have any assets at all, and that's in the vast majority of them. So please support the first reading and the second reading to make the necessary changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u9	Thank you. From the People's Front, Danielne Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Victor Yelen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u11	My fellow Members, I urge you to support this bill, even though the Ukrainian State has assumed a special obligation to religious organizations as opposed to everyone else, and this bill removes injustice. Religious organizations are placed in a position that discriminates against them comparatively, for example, with the company of lovers of expensive watches — it is wrong and unfair. I also want to remind those national MPs, among whom there are very serious anti-Clerical, I would say, sentiments that are not patriarchs, they're not religious governments, they're 35,000 religious organizations that are scattered throughout our country, most of which are very poor and very poor people. People who are gathered for the calling of their conscience and for the calling of their conscience. I ask you not to burden their consciences, not to burden their consciences, and to give them the opportunity to stand at least at the level of public, charitable, professional and other organizations. I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Ivchenko has been passing it on to Krulkov since the "Fatherland" faction. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u13	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, on the Clean Thursday we need to adopt this bill, which removes the double interpretation of the law in part of the obligation to notarize the documents of religious organizations and to release them from payment by the administrative assembly when they register these changes. This needs to be supported today, voted in all the halls, and thus united the hall. But just like the Fatherland faction, we would like to see this Pure Thursday vote on the issue of cancelling the electronic declaration. Let us, on Thursdays, cleanse the country from various interpretations and from the various absurdities that unfortunately are in our legislation. Therefore, as a faction of "Fatherland" alongside the support of this bill, we propose to the Head of the Supreme Council to put the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the decisions of the two Bills 8209 and 8209-1, which exempt and decriminalize public activists. Please bring the relevant questions to the agenda of the session and vote. And let this Pure Thursday clear this hall of filth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich is passing on to Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u15	In the 26th year of free walking from the colony to our own democratic state, we have to move away from stereotypes that religious organizations are just cult buildings for something there. Religious organizations unite people around the idea of humanism, health, freedom and dignity in society. These are tools that build morals that build a nation that builds society. So this bill is a step towards meeting, that tool of the eternal history of mankind that leads us to respect one another and to dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u16	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Yuri Miroshnichenko, and then from the Rebirth Group is Victor Bondar. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention and the previous speakers have already said that in our country 35,000 religious communities. These are millions of people who are members of various denominations who may be sending out their various ritual activities, but, at the same time, they are people who pray for all of us, praying for each of the national deputies, that God will give us wisdom, that God will give us the responsibility to give us love. And I invite you now, when we have to support these communities and when the entire religious community through the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches has asked us to uphold this law, to vote it. And I would vote for it on the basis and in general, taking into account the amendments that were made today from this rostrum. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u18	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u19	I think this will be the best signal for our society that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is aware of its responsibility for the life of our country, for the spiritual condition of our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. Which is why I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. After this talk, we will move on to making a decision. It's from Victor Bondar's Rebirth Group. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich! I personally support this bill, and our faction will support it by voting today. Mistakes need to be recognized and corrected, all the more so with regard to religious organizations in Ukraine. Today, indeed, it has been almost two years since Parliament, the authorities have done so not to simplify, but rather to make the registration process worse, the re-registration of our Ukrainian churches in which our Ukrainians are going. So we're proposing to support this bill, it simplifies the procedure, it gives the Church's religious communities the possibility of completely simple registration procedures, it disproves the mechanisms, it refutes the procedure for collecting signatures, and so on, it disproves even the financial costs of registering their religious organizations, so we support this bill, and on this Clean Thursday, I call on all our colleagues to support our churches and allow them to live peacefully and work in Ukraine, and to bring good to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u22	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. I also ask those colleagues who are in bed so that I do not speak separately. So please move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (No. 6642) as a basis. Please vote and please support. Based on the base. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:24:36]] For 237 Decision taken. And now, colleagues, attention is being paid to a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please support the simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[10:25:04]] For 218. Colleagues, not enough votes. I'll do it again. Maybe they didn't. Please take your seats. So once again, I'm proposing to shorten the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading of Law 6642. Please take part in the vote and support it. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:25:40]] For 231 Decision taken. And, colleagues, let's move on to the parliamentary reform cluster. The first is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the distribution of posts on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the D’Ondt principle (7550). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:26:20]] For 155 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to report on this bill to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai. We invite you, Mr. Andrey, to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We have long prepared this bill, designed to implement paragraph 18 of the recommendations of the European Parliament Mission, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 17 March 2016. This is one of the steps of a very large-scale general reform of Parliament. And the step that I believe is important for the Ukrainian Supreme Council, which is proposed to be implemented in the next call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it envisions a distribution mechanism on committees at the beginning of the function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a formula that provides for a fair distribution of the heads of committees among all the political factions that form the structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This happens in sequence and in turn, when from a larger to a smaller fraction is identified and selected by committee heads depending on the size of the faction, but in full sequence. This method is used in many European countries, such as Austria, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Croatia, Poland, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Hungary, the Netherlands, Romania, Bulgaria, and it is also used in the European Parliament. And I hope that one of the European practices that will provide us with the structural, proper structure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to support us today, vote in the first reading, and thus take another step towards reforming the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm hoping for the support of the entire room, this is the work force. This bill is signed by the majority of the factions that are in Parliament and I hope for a joint unanimous vote. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. And the word for the report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Paul Pinzenic. Please, Mr. Pinzenik, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u26	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! On March 21, this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the distribution of posts on the Committees of the Supreme Council on the principle of d’Ondt, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Parubi Andriy Volodymirovich, Gerasim Arthur Vladimirovich, and others (8 signatures) (registration number 7550). The project is designed for the implementation of paragraph 18 of the recommendations of the European Parliament Mission adopted by the Supreme Council on 17 March 2016 on measures to implement and recommend internal reform and enhance the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council. In order to achieve this goal, the drafters propose to amend articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 81 of the Rules, assuming that the election of committee heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries and members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is carried out in accordance with the principle of d'Ondt. The committee made a number of comments to this bill, which we are convinced can be further developed in preparation for the second reading if adopted in the first reading. In particular, there is a question of how to address this question of the election of the Ukrainian national deputy to the committee in cases where the deputy faction does not make any proposals for the election of the deputy to the appropriate position in order of order of order of order: it decides to recall or exclude the national deputy from this faction. We also do not yet have a clear conclusion as to whether it is common for the election of national deputies to the positions of committee heads, first substitutes for heads, deputy heads, secretaries, members, or for each category separately. There are a number of other suggestions, but they can all be processed for second reading. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u28	From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team would like to thank Parliament Speaker Andria Paruba very much for his firm stance on reforming the work of the Supreme Council. Andriy Volodymyrovich, your persistence deserves respect, because many times you put these bills on the table, unfortunately, Parliament does not support it. Our faction will vote for these laws. Why? First of all, we think we really need to reduce the number of committees of the Supreme Council. But this is not enough to radically reform Parliament's work. We need to make changes to the Constitution. And our Radical Party team is initiating changes to the Constitution, which will make Parliament accountable and accountable to Ukrainian citizens. We propose to reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council to 250. Because 450 deputies are a lot. In addition, many do not have the conscience and responsibility to go to work and work on a large salary assigned to deputies by Ukrainian taxpayers. In addition, in order to effectively overcome corruption and reform the work of the Supreme Council, the Radical Party team proposes to vote in this House for a change in the electoral system: the voter’s vote is bribed by the voter’s voter. At first, they led people to poverty, poverty, and then they bought their votes for a penny to make corruption in this hall. We insist on changes to the Constitution, the abolition of parliamentary integrity, and the withdrawal of deputies when they fail to perform their parliamentary duties. This complex approach will enable Parliament to make a controlled people. In addition, the Radical Party proposes the adoption of the Law on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine and the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council. All must be controlled by the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u30	Thank you and thank you for your support, Oleg Valeriovich. Thank you for your support in reforming Parliament. And now I'm inviting you to speak to the self-help faction of Olenna Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u31	Thank you, Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. There is no secret to anyone that the quality of Parliament is primarily the quality of the people working in this Parliament. Of course, we can take hundreds of steps, dozens of different steps to improve internal work, order, committee work, but the Ukrainian people should always remember that quality deputies, honest, open, honest elections will bring honest, quality people to this Parliament. But today we have what we have, and we have to work with it. So I thank the chairman and thank the faction leaders, who have nevertheless led at least a small part of the parliamentary reform to this room. I'm just going to explain very briefly to people what this bill is and what this idea means. It means there won't be any contractors, there won't be a party, and there won't be a committee distribution, like who's gonna want it in a day, two before the next Supreme Council. And there'll be an honest distribution, an honest formula, the number of mandates that a given faction gets, or another fraction of a particular formula that is defined in this law, will be allocated positions. And after that, in fact, each faction will choose according to the order of order which committee, for which committee it will be responsible. I think that's the first step towards transparency, that's the first step towards efficiency and real parliamentaryism in these walls. Of course, the Self-Help faction will support this bill. We think it's just the beginning, we have 40 more Cox recommendations that this Parliament has undertaken to implement. Let us hope that this Parliament will be able to make more important decisions and completely change the situation of mistrust of politicians in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u32	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, this is a real bill that allows Parliament to be reformed. We cannot be held hostage by someone who has received more or less votes, and hence the opposition or the corresponding majority form a day’s order. This is actually a bill that allows us to account for the position of both the majority and the opposition. Sadly, in his time, he was expelled from the Law of the Rules a whole chapter that regulated the work of opposition. When we were in the majority, the Fatherland faction had 156 votes, and with its coalition partners, we made it clear that the opposition should be controlled by committees that deal with freedom of speech, the budget. We weren't afraid of that. Unfortunately, under Yanukovic's regime, the opposition was essentially deprived of all rights, and that is the return of justice, when clearly, depending on how many votes it has won or any other faction, we will be given the right to form a full parliament, in which most of them, and the opposition will perform their functions. Unfortunately, this is just the beginning, we need to keep moving in that direction. The Court of Auditors cannot be the majority’s chamber of accounts, for what is then the content of controlling the coming of the budget, their distribution in both the central and the local budgets. And we're going to have to continue this difficult but necessary work. Let's at least leave the rules of the game, which will not change depending on who gets the majority or the minority. Parliament is the people's representatives. And that should be the key principle of Parliament's work. We support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Mr. Dudenkov Alexander is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u35	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You just listen to how the former and current members of the "European Ukraine" coalition praise each other. All the drafters of the bill were once part of a single coalition. The Opposition Block faction is not the author of this bill. Why? There goes the distribution of seats on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a permanent organ, of course a good idea. Of course, there are already standard schemes for the allocation of executive positions. But what prevents you from distributing these positions now? The Opposition Block faction does not, in principle, participate in the work of the European Parliamentarians, who lead the identified working group, because we want to point out this non-participation of cynicism and double standards of valid authority. Now they say that it is necessary to distribute positions on committees according to the principle of D’Ondt, but in the next call. Let's do it now. In fact, all former and current members of the former coalition "European Ukraine", by distributing positions among themselves, have taken away the only opposition faction -- "The Opposition Block" -- from parliamentary control. No more than a head, no first intercessors, no secretaries, no accounting office, no senior human rights council, all their own, all the coalition representatives. Who, then, will exercise independent objective control? What are you talking about? Whom are you trying to convince that you are on the right track and want to introduce European values? If you want to bring them in, you can bring them in right now. That's why we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u36	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, Victor Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, in order to change the country, you need to start changing on your own and starting with Parliament first. I strongly support this bill, and I call on my colleagues to support this bill, and the next bill to review the number of committees for the Supreme Council for the next call. We need to realize that Parliament needs to change and become an active, influential and very working body in the state. He really has to perform the functions that the people both rely on him, and the will of the people must do. It has to control the activities of ministries, it has to set up a state development strategy, and it has to give a tone to the development of the state. And if we want Parliament to be active, we don't have to keep dozens of committees, so that the number of committees is equal to the number of ministries. If we want to be European, we need to adapt, change the rules. And today's committee proposal is European rules, they need to be supported. And I fully support the proposals that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u38	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u39	And I fully support the proposals that have been made in this room today, and we need to start not only by selecting the heads of committees, not only in the number of committees, but by starting with the next Supreme Council, and by number, even responding to the will of the people. So I support the reduction of the Supreme Council to the next call. And this needs to be reviewed, changed to the Constitution and done so that the Supreme Council is equal to the will of the people, the number of people they want to see. In our view, this could be 200, 250, 300 deputies max, and this should be a compromise in the hall where we have to go. And the next Council has to be absolutely different: both by number, by function, and by impact on all the processes that are going on in the state. We must finally learn to be in power and understand that Parliament is responsible for the government's activities, and the government has to come, report, and every minister has to know for which committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u40	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Solovay, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u41	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. First of all, I would like to thank Parliament Speaker Andria Paruba as a member of the working group on reforming Parliament for his systematic proposal and systematic organized work on drafting bills aimed at reforming parliament. Because I share the opinion of my previous colleagues that the main task of our work and the building of a new state should be to make the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine effective. What does this bill give us, the people’s deputies, and the Ukrainian society? I want to say one golden phrase that all power becomes opposition sooner or later, and any opposition to its consistent policy becomes power sooner or later. But this does not mean at all that it should affect the effective work of Parliament. The D’Ondt principle allows for the introduction of a system in the distribution of committees. The D’Ondt principle enables the tension between power and opposition to be removed in the preparation of one or the other bills. The D’Ondt principle is a norm that works in each European Parliament when it comes to the distribution of positions in the management of committees and, of course, it is an extremely positive step. But at the same time, we need to be clear that this is just the first step. The issue of the full cycle of public policy on the drafting of bills should also be on the agenda. The agenda should be in order, Andrew Volodymyrovich, and the question that we should move on to the procedure. another procedure for the adoption of bills, only to adopt by a majority of 226 drafts in the first reading and amendments, as the Constitution does not require, with a view to their preparation of a more rapid and qualitative review, should be adopted by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u42	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u43	They should be approved by a simple majority of the people's deputies. Nevertheless, the very fact that we have taken a systematic and comprehensive approach to reforming Parliament is already a major step forward. Thank you to the authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Now, please, the pigeon from the non-faction minute. And, colleagues, after that, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to report to the factions' headquarters and the Supreme Council Secretariat that in a minute we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, dove, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u45	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, I really want to thank the authors of this initiative. This is the very right approach that we will eventually change the system of allocation of posts in the Supreme Council on the basis that posts will be distributed on the basis of the principle that, as the elections have passed, not the Ukrainian principle of "on you, God, what is wrong with me." But, dear colleagues, we may have one small problem, because without a change in electoral legislation, the prescribed bill may not work for one simple reason: that when the electoral system is maintained, it is not excluded that there will be enough non-fractional national MPs in the next. And such national deputies simply will not be able to work on any committee at all. So, honourable colleagues, in tandem, I think that these two reforms will make a substantial improvement to the Ukrainian Parliament in the next call. And I urge all colleagues to support this initiative. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u46	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, I invite everyone out of bed to the hall, and I invite everyone to take up their jobs. All those speaking, all the factions in their statements supported the legislative initiative. I remind you that the authors of the law are the heads of almost all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. And I hope we will now take another step, an important step towards reforming the Ukrainian Parliament. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the distribution of posts on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on principle d? Ondta (No. 7550) based on the Committee’s proposals Please vote and please support, colleagues. The vote is unanimous and agreed upon. Careful. Every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:48:31]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for all your support and work. Let's move on to the next draft of the law. This is a draft Law that has sparked much discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee did not give in general. The committee, and we can do it in general, let's say. Pinzenic! [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no. He says we can't. We can't. Next draft of Act 6256 on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. An important discussion. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:49:20]] For-160.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u47	My fellow Members, a speech to the report on this bill is invited by the Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Parubai, who is working extremely actively today with colleagues on the issue of parliamentary reform. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, this is another step towards implementing our common agreement with the European Parliament. I would like to remind you that the European Parliament has had no such cooperation with anyone as it has with the Ukrainian Parliament for Reform. And this legislative initiative foresees a reduction in the number of committees from the next call to no more than 20 committees. I am convinced that such an initiative will increase the weight and value of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and allow the control functions of each committee to be increased. But during the discussion of this bill, there was a large number of discussions about what committees should be in the next call, so that there would be no more than 20. And in the last dialogues that took place with the MEPs, we came to an understanding. Listen to me carefully, members of all committees: both Euro-integration and anti-corruption – that in this legislative initiative we make it our second reading obligation to give an exclusive and comprehensive list of committees. So in the first reading, we're voting no more than 20, but we're all going to make a total commitment that we're going to be working together in a working group that works intensively before the second reading, and we're going to give a comprehensive and exclusive list of committees that are going to be in the next call. Thus, we will avoid this discussion, which has so far prevented us from making a positive decision. Everyone will know that on the second reading, each of the committee heads will be able to see and see that his committee is scheduled for the next call. It seems to me that the wording that I propose that we take into account the first reading, allow us to unite the hall, and allow us to make another positive decision in the reform of Parliament. I look forward to a fruitful discussion and a positive result of our work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Head. And we invite the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Paul Pinzenic, who represents the position of the committee of profile, to report on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u50	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have discussed in the committee a bill to amend the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council and on the Central Executive Authorities on optimizing the work of parliamentary committees and their relationship with the spheres of activity of ministries, which according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of June 8, 17th, No. 2092 has been returned to the Committee for the preparation of a re-first reading. There were no written suggestions for this bill to prepare for the Committee’s reopening of its first reading. In view of what the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to consider the proposed draft in the first reading. We were working on it, colleagues, and we even had proposals that we thought would allow us to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. However, taking into account the position expressed by the initiative’s head of the Supreme Council, he proposes to take as a basis and to join in the work on his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Paul. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u52	I think that the option that was found as a compromise in agreement with the Chief of the Supreme Council allows us to finally approach the principle of functionally ensuring the work of the committees of Parliament. In his time, General De Gaulle, president of the French Republic, made a unique decision in the Constitution. And now any National Assembly of the Republic of France can have no more than six committees. Those who had the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the work of these committees will see that these meetings are held on a daily basis, there are 40-50 deputies present at these meetings, not counting experts. These meetings really address the most important issues of Parliament's work. Look at this shame -- the meetings of individual committees of the Supreme Council, where there is no quorum, then people, bills, thoughts to consider. I think this bill allows for a clear definition of a key position – a monitoring function for Parliament and, on the other hand, a function for Parliament in drafting bills. That's what allows this bill to be done. The Fatherland faction supports the introduction of this key principle for Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u54	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the reform of Parliament has long been ripe and it should include not only a reduction in the number of committees, but that MPs work on committees alone. Because that is how the European model of parliamentaryism works. But in addressing this issue, I ask the Head of Parliament, under the transcript, to say that even after our reform, a place will be guaranteed for the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. Because this committee is profiled in the newly created anti-corruption bodies, which are the main contributors to the looting of government money. And, Mr. Head, I have another proposition for you. Mr. Head! Mr. Andrey, another offer. Our Parliament now has no heads in half of the committees. We don't have the heads of the committees of European integration, finance and banking, the anti-corruption committee, the regulatory committee, the agro-industrial policy committee, the Special Committee on Privatisation and so on. How long is this going to take? Why do we have a committee-level parliament doing this? So to you as the engine of these changes, please finally resolve this question. In this Parliament another year and a half, he has to work fully with the committee heads in all directions. I didn't even complete that list. And, Mr. Andrey, I repeat, you spoke on the phone. I ask you, under the transcript, if this law approves, to report that a new calling under this law will create a Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption as the main profiling committee on newly created anti-corruption bodies, which are called upon to save the money of the state budget from looting by corrupters and oligarchs. Because that is how we can guarantee a decent standard of living for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u55	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, I'll explain again. In the last few dialogues, we agreed that we would be a group in the committee, in the working group, giving a complete list of committees. That this will be a discussion between the first and the second readings, where we have to go to the list of committees that should be adopted by law and which should work for the next Council. I, of course, am not only a proponent, I am convinced that both the Anti-Corruption Committee and the Committee on Euro-Integration. But we agreed that this would be the subject of a discussion between the first and the second readings. Now we're just fixing the quantity, and we're working on the second reading. Thank you very much. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u56	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that the reform of Parliament is extremely important, it is important to strengthen as a legislative function of Parliament, and more so, the supervisory role, which unfortunately this call by the Supreme Council is virtually not being carried out. It is also important to strengthen the role and influence of the committees, both in law-making and in control. Unfortunately, in our view, only two positions from more than 40 proposals prepared by the Cox Commission are an attempt to report to European partners rather than a real desire to reform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It doesn't look very sincere, because if we wanted to reform and strengthen the role of parliament, we would start to form laws and order of action, not for the next Supreme Council, but for ourselves today. Therefore, the reform of Parliament should begin with us reviewing committee leadership in accordance with parliamentary traditions, reviewing the other supervisory bodies of the Supreme Council in order to make the Supreme Council a parliament today, not an addition to the Bank's. It's very important that we begin to form the agenda today so that the rights of opposition are protected, and every national MP, every faction could present a bill from this rostrum, not a bill from above. That's why the Opposition Block, in support of the need to reform parliament, is against the approach that continues even in these laws to discriminate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u57	Thank you. The People's Front is the head. No, Svetlana, please turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u58	Mr. Chairman, national deputies, the People's Front faction, which has consistently supported the Chief of the Supreme Council in reforming it. And as a member of the working group, I would like to draw your attention once again, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for not closing the discussion on this subject today. Because my position was constant and clear that when we cut arithmetic committees, we could lose committees, particularly the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Regulatory Affairs. And we can't hope for political will because our country's history tells us that sometimes the course can change in one day and the role in this Supreme Council should be preserved. Also in the working group, I'm hoping for a second reading, we're going to talk about gender quotas in the distribution of committees. Because, today, even with the largest number of women in the Supreme Council, 12% of the eight committees that matter to the country, they don't have completely represented women. In particular, it's a committee of budgetary, banking and financial policies, law enforcement reform and so on. So of course the People's Front will vote and support, but for the second reading, we want to take these comments into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar. Bondar one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm calling on my colleagues to support this bill. For the future of the next Parliament, the reduction of committees is fundamentally important, and we will finally put order in the work of parliament and ministries. Every minister will know what committee he needs to come to, every person in Ukraine, every deputy will know that his branch bill on some ministry will go through only one committee. And then there'll be the only focused thought, not the way that's going on today, that's going to be a bill coming into the Supreme Council, and going down the halls on two or four committees. And then he rolls in there, he changes, and on the way out, we have like today, underworked bills that we've been correcting this morning. So I support this bill and I appeal to my colleagues, no matter how difficult it is to make this decision, no matter how painful the soul is that someone doesn't get a seat in the next Parliament, we have to vote. We support and we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u61	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Roman Semenich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u62	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! It is not obvious that the decline in the committees of the Supreme Council from the next cadence will lead to an improvement in the quality of the process. The Self-Help faction believes that Parliament should keep the Rules Committee, the Committee on Euro-Integration Policy. And there is no doubt about the prevention and resistance of corruption. After all, even of the 27 committees today there are many committees, in fact, activities are semiblocked because they do not have legitimate leaders today. And in many European parliaments, the number of committees, and most importantly, their objects of knowledge, not only correspond to the organs of central executive power, but primarily to the philosophy of state development. At the same time, in my view, the reform of parliament should start not only from this but first of all from the new Electoral Code, which will introduce new rules for the election of national MPs for open party lists. The next is a personal vote. I am convinced that without the introduction of a personal voting card, not only in the sessional room, but also in committee meetings, there is little way to improve the process. And the next. The efficiency of the Supreme Council's work is not just plenary meetings. This must first and foremost increase the role and status of committees. During work, I want to share a few ideas that could improve the role of the committee. First, it's to reduce the required quorum for making decisions, for example, to one-third. This will allow us to avoid today the very common practice that is used to block an important decision. The next is to introduce a rule that allows the Ukrainian National MP to be secured by several committees. Note that today, out of eight MPs and factions, five have fewer than 27. This means that they today cannot fully participate in the process. And most importantly, very importantly, I think that on second reading, the committee should become the main committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u63	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u64	The committee is to become a field that prepares the bill fully and qualitatively for the second reading. And in the session room, you and I don't ask for confirmation, but all we have to do is consider the issues that are opposing the session room, which will significantly reduce the time for the second reading of the bill in plenary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u65	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I'm asking you to invite everyone. Yeah, well, I'll give you my word from "the will of the people," as agreed. Yes, please, Irina Heratchenko, two minutes. And then I'll give you my word. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u66	My fellow Members, I think it's very important that we are discussing the work of Parliament's committees now, because in European parliaments, the key work is actually going on there, not only in the number of committees, but in their quality. It is clear that the next call should not simply leave the Committee on European Integration, but we are obliged in the context of the Association Agreement to significantly strengthen the functions of this committee. And to do so now, because in all the countries that have defined their way to the EU (Eastern Europe), these committees have necessarily included factions heads on a consultative basis in order to work with the government to adapt legislation. It is very important to maintain the gender principle of committee formation. It's not decent that we don't have any female MPs on the budget committee. And please excuse me, all European countries and the United States have long appealed to such principles as gender-based budgeting, and you don't know these words. So these positions should be fixed not only in the new law but in our head. I would also like to encourage both respectable journalists and activists to work closely with the committees because there are bills being drafted. Cooperation and pressure on Parliament are not cowards to hang under the Supreme Council in action, and it is very serious to work with committees on the substance of the law. So I fully support the constructive design of our speaker on the need for a transcription or a second reading, and this should also be the copyright team, the fixations that the next parliamentary call should include: the Anti-Corruption Committee, the Euro-Integration Committee with the Reinforced, with enhanced powers and the obligation to establish a gender principle of committee formation. We can't have men or anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u67	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u68	We can't have the Soviet principle of men -- budget, economy, banking and women -- the Health Committee, the Education Committee, committees. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u69	Thank you. The will of the people is Shahov. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, colleagues. There'll be a vote in a few minutes. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u70	People's Will Group, Luganskina, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, many things in the country have not yet been reformed, unassigned APC ministers, not appointed Minister of Health. Health care, yet the Central Election Commission has not been reformed or re-elected. But we need to start transforming ourselves into a parliament on this Clean Thursday. How much can you do? For four years we will not be transformed. People ask me there in Lugansk and all over the country, 27 committees should not be multiplied, but they should be reduced, cut alive like surgeons, these shits that are already infested in Parliament today. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. And "The will of the people" will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act, Dove. One minute. In a minute, we move on to making decisions. So I'm asking everyone to come out of the pool hall, come into the hall, get ready to vote. Please, the pigeon from the non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u72	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, I also urge everyone to support the bill. But actually, only in the first reading, because even if we read it carefully right now, there are certain variations. But I also support all colleagues who say that we must leave the Committee of European Integration, strengthen it, as has been the case in all countries that have claimed full membership in the EU. But, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, I have a request for you: before the second reading of this bill, there must be a standard for mandatory visits by ministers to meetings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because we have, excuse me, as a member of the Legal and Justice Committee in three and a half years as a professional minister I've seen once and for all, I'm starting to forget even what it looks like. So please enter mandatory visits by ministers of committee meetings. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u73	Thank you. I'll tell you what's in this is one of the great logic: when a minister has a few committees, he can't go anywhere without clear and proper control. And I also want to emphasize, colleagues, my personal opinion, and I'm going to say that there are a number of committees of so-called horizontal, among them and Euro-integration, which I believe should be in the law as a whole. But we have come to an important understanding of giving a comprehensive list of all the committees that should be. It's not gonna be a simple job, it's complicated, but let's start that way. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm very much asking everyone to vote and support this initiative, and start preparing for the second reading. And I want to remind you that in all European parliaments, except for two: Sweden and Lithuania, the number of committees is less than 20. And as we went to the elections, we promised to cut down on the committees. Now we have the opportunity to take the first step. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities on optimizing the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the relationship between their knowledge and the activities of ministries (No. 6256). So it is based on the fact that the second reading is a commitment to work on and out on a comprehensive list of committees. Don't come out of the hall, come in! Please. Nemirovsky, Dubnevich, Cervakova, take your seats, please. We vote. Mr. Nemirowski, Mrs. Cervakova, there is now a decision-making session in the hall. So, please, back up. Please vote. Please be supportive. We vote! Please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'll take a vote. [[11:13:25]] For 229 Decision taken. And by factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 83, People's Front – 74, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 10, Radical Party – 16, Father's Party – 13, Will of the People – 12, Rebirth Party – 8. Colleagues, this was an important step, important arrangements that we have reached, and here in Parliament we have the opportunity to implement them, and I thank you all for supporting those initiatives. This is a big step, a great success for Parliament. Now, colleagues, the next block that we have in order of the day is the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the decision-making. Hence, colleagues who are recommended by law. First of all, it's recommended that we do a draft decision that we passed on Tuesday. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to an international partnership on the inadmissibility of building the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and the monopoly of the Russian Federation on gas markets in the world. A committee took place yesterday. The committee made a positive decision. The decree is ready, and it is particularly relevant, given yesterday's position by President Trump of the United States of America on the unacceptable construction of North Stream 2. So I'm convinced that we're the decision that is ready, the committee is prepared, we have to take it now, and my first suggestion is that we put it into the agenda and move on right now to the draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the North Stream of 2. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Entry into the agenda for consideration. [[11:15:31]] For 227 Decision taken. The following is recommended. Draft National Security Act of Ukraine (8068, 8068-1). And it's also suggested, given the importance of us getting into the agenda and moving on after the North Stream 2 decision to move on. Please vote. Please be supportive. 8068, 8068-1. Please vote. Please be supportive. To be included in the agenda of the session and to be considered now. [[11:16:17]] For 232 Decision taken. And next up, colleagues. Draft Law. From national security, colleagues. A very important offer from the Shepherd. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's 6050. 6052 is a draft National Security Act that has been harmonized. The committee was accepted yesterday. And I'm asking you to put it in the agenda. Mr. Taras! I, colleagues, ask you very much whether it's Shepherd or Vinnik. 30 seconds. Explain, please. Better Ivan. Please, from the committee. It is a great request from the committee that we consider today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u74	Good morning, dear fellows! This is the second reading, the important project is 6052. What's he settling? On the one hand, he regulates the possibility of returning to the service of people who have not passed military-medical commissions in connection with the injuries they have received if they wish to continue their service under the contract. On the other hand, it completely changes the wording of article 26 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service, where we generally regulate all the standards that we have introduced over the last three years, and most clearly we write out how to return from service today to contractors who are serving and contracting until the end of a special period. It's an extremely resonant question, it reinforces the Ukrainian army. He's completely ready for second reading, there's not much right there, they're mostly all accounted for. So let's turn it on and work fast for three minutes, and we'll vote it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u75	Colleagues, I gave the committee the opportunity to explain, because there was no law on the list. It's simple, it's a second reading. I have a request for everyone to support the committee and to include it in the agenda today for consideration, colleagues. Take your word for it, all factions know. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:19:08]] For 241 Decision taken. The next thing we have is a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects). This is the Committee of the JCG, Andreyevsky Dmitry, 8015. Thus, the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session for decision - making. Please vote, please support. 8015. Please be supportive. [[11:19:53]] For 264 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we can go to the North Stream 2 Order. I think it's an important emotional decision. And I think it's an important geopolitical decision that we have to make today. And I'm now announcing the move towards a draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Inadmissibility of Construction of the North Stream 2 pipeline (8111). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[11:20:43]] For 205 205. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Head of the People's Front faction, Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front is proposing draft Decree 8111 on the Address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Society for the Inadmissibility of Construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and the monopoly of the Russian Federation in the gas markets of the world. On March 1, the international community witnessed cynical pressure on European consumers by Russian gas monopolist Gazprom, who suddenly, without warning, ignored his contractual obligations, refused to supply gas to Ukraine’s internal market. This illegal decision has caused significant economic losses to the Ukrainian company Naftogaz and has also created real risks of destabilizing Ukraine's energy and threatening to end transit to the European Union during a period of severe frost. This is just one example of how a Russian gas monopoly can behave if Europe and the world do not play by its rules. There are no additional examples for the People's Front faction. I can also remind everyone that back in 2014, the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk had decided to appeal to Russia's gas monopoly. And last year, we won two Stockholm arbitrations and saved all of Ukraine, all of Ukraine's citizens $60 billion. And this was the credit of Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenyuk and the first coalition government. So then we realized that we needed to take all the steps to get Ukraine out of the gas storm. We did that in 2014, and we're going to Europe, "Don't go head-to-head in Russia's gas storm. For Russia, gas is blackmail, it's weapons, it's not an item of trade." So once again, I appeal to everyone to support this decision. I would like to remind you that the countries of Europe and the Baltic States, and yesterday the President of the United States, Donald Trump, supported the construction ban and the possibility of imposing sanctions against the builders of the gas station. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor, for your initiative. And I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the European Integration Committee, Maria Ionov. Dear Mrs. Maria, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u78	Dear lady, head! Dear colleagues! As a result of its consideration of March 3, 2018, the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision with such amendments and additions. In the text of the draft regulation and the Address, replace the word "Nord Stream 2" with the words "North Stream 2." In paragraph 4 of the draft Appeal, after the words "will get control of the quantity and price", the word "all" should be deleted. The paragraph of the first draft of the decision will be drafted as follows: "Acknowledgment that the intention to implement the Gazprom project "North Stream 2" will be the approval of the absolute monopoly of the Russian Federation in the gas market of Europe. In that case Gazprom will be given control over the volume and price of the gas market in continental Europe, as well as the physical ability to refuse gas supply to central European countries at all." Thus, the impact of the North Stream 2 project will go far beyond commercial or domestic affairs in the European Union and will cause an energy crisis, economic and political destabilisation of all Europe and then the planets as a whole." In paragraph 6 of the draft Reference to the word "journalists and public activists" delete. In making such a decision, the National Deputies of the Committee on European Integration came from the fact that we are consolidating the efforts of the entire international partnership to counter the implementation of the Northern Stream 2 project as a threat to energy security not only by Ukraine but also by the EU. The situation of Gazprom's gas supply ended in the first place as a partner in international contractual obligations. And it's obvious that in this way Russia is trying to use the energy trade simply as a tool of coercion and blackmail. Ukraine has proved its ability and reliability to ensure transit despite the crisis. And thanks to our citizens, who were united against other provocations, we were able to speak out and ensure that gas was delivered to the European Union. In view of the above, I would like to support the draft ruling, as well as to inform the national deputies that the Committee's proposals in foreign affairs in the processing process have been taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u79	Thank you. So the position of the committee of profile so that the relevant draft decision will be adopted in general with all the comments and recommendations of the Committee of European Integration, which were also discussed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a ruling. And, the Parliamentary Secretariat, notice that we don't have a timer. Please allow the timer to work. Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u80	Please give the floor to a colleague of Natalia Buchkovsky, allowing them to speak from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u81	Please, Mrs. Natalia, we invite you to the podium to announce the position of the People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, an extremely important decision is an important decision for Ukraine, for Ukraine's energy security and also for European energy security. First of all, "Nord Stream 2" is a project that Russia has initiated in response to our energy reforms. Ukraine has become independent of Russian gas supplies, so Russia is trying to bypass Ukraine and leave us with a large share of income in the budget -- it's from 2 billion a year, and that's a very important part of Ukraine's budget. The second thing that could be worse is the loss of the geopolitical importance of negotiations. It is very important for us to leave the transit through Ukraine. And the third question is physical. and the security of gas supply in Europe. There can be no monopoly on supply, according to European legislation, of the principles of the law of the Energy European Union. So it's very important that this project doesn't happen. And it is very important for Ukraine to put this issue on the world agenda now, so this decision, where we are addressing the countries of the European Union, some of which already support Ukraine. And some of which have already declared that the construction of this stream is unacceptable. It is very important that other countries also support Ukraine and we will work on it. As early as 2016, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and I began hearing about energy security. We also raised the question of energy diplomacy for the first time in independence. In order to make this work more coordinated, we have also drafted the Energy Security Act, where we propose to create a special energy security authority, a special person, a diplomat who will deal with the protection of Ukraine's energy interests. This will enable energy security to be effectively addressed. This will make it possible to be more heard in world parliaments, and it will enable us, together with other countries, to solve this problem -- the threat of energy security in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u83	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Oleg Beresuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a great topic today, the Ukrainian gas transport system is, without overdoing, the military shield of Ukrainian independence. When the Ukrainian gas transport system and its functionalities disappear, Ukraine is defenseless. Because in it, in a stable Ukraine, there is no interest in any state of Central and Eastern Europe. And our eternal enemy has an empty field that will be occupied by him. So preserving the gas transport system is a task for us today. The construction of the Northern Stream in the 21st century, which is based on economic relevance and its interest, is politically equivalent to the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which resulted in the destruction of Europe, not just Ukraine. So today, when we go against the North Stream, we have to think about what we're doing inside the country, how we're going to fight for a function, so that in a gas transport system that's solely owned by Ukraine, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are interested. The security of the country is in this interest. Therefore, the unification of the European Union and the United States is a guarantee of the efficiency of managing the gas transport system and the security of the independence of the Ukrainian State in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u85	Please, Igor Šurma will perform from the scene. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u86	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you right now what there is in common between Two Janus and Gazprom. I don't know what you're going to vote for in the Pure Thursday. I'm just reading the text, "He's supported. controlled by the government, carrying out armed aggression against Ukraine." What are you calling for? Promote the expansion of Gazprom and the affiliate structures of sectoral sanctions imposed by Russian armed aggression against Ukraine. And you don't want to clear your memory and your brains: what did you vote for a week ago? And I'll remind you: you voted in favour of the amendments to the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code, the Customs Code of Ukraine. Do you know what it means? The benefits and preferences you've given to those who are. leads the final part of the Champions League. And who is the official sponsor of the Champions League? This is Gazprom. And how do you know that you're there to help, to agree to the finals of the Champions League in Ukraine, where you're the official sponsor of Gazprom? So, if you're so principled, say it all over Europe, we can't have this match because Gazprom is on today's title sponsor, and on all television channels in all European countries, it's demonstrated. This is the first one. It's very important for you today to make a popular statement, and you don't want to think about the Ukrainian people. You have a decision for today's committee to assess the interim health minister, why don't you put it in the hall? You're reforming Parliament in four years, what's it going to be? You make the committee's decision to find work unsatisfactory, let the hall determine. You want to - define it unsatisfactory, you want to - agree and take responsibility for the activities of the minister of health, be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Sergey Kaplin will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u88	The insolent and shameful conduct of Putin and the Kremlin, the building of alternatives. The alternative pipe, the diversion against the national energy security economy of our state, is the result of the helplessness of today's government, the previous government and the coalition as a whole. Today, the Coalition Agreement needs to be reviewed immediately to implement it in the area of energy security. Over the past few years, we have not done what ordinary Ukrainians have asked us to do, namely: demonopolization, deligarchization, deinstitutionalization -- all the necessary steps that would make our energy completely competitive. We have not taken the necessary steps to join us in solidarity with the countries of Europe and to support the energy independence and energy sovereignty of our nation. Instead, Naftogaz, Crushing is all kinds of gas throughout the country, particularly in the Sumskia, Poltava region, in western Ukraine, in the hands of the Ukrainian, more specifically, anti-Ukraine oligarchy. On behalf of all the Ukrainian Lefts, I demand that the Prime Minister, the government of Ukraine, the coalition, eventually bring to the Ukrainian Parliament a minimum of 10 years into the Chamber and read from this rostrum, which would include important elements that relate, in particular, to energy diplomacy, the first, which relates to the new energy doctrine, to the external political doctrine. And it's only by solving these problems in a complex way, only by returning to the property of the Ukrainian people the natural gas supply, the oil production, returning the energy system, the communication, that we will be able to get some shifts in this situation. If we don't, if we don't fight corruption in energy, we're still going to be hostage to the Kremlin's energy, geopolitical games. And this is just the first attempt at our energy sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u89	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that it is necessary to vote on this decision. And there's no question that we have to make extraordinary Ukrainian efforts and all of Ukraine's friends in the world so that we don't have to build the North Stream 2 at all. But it is far more important today not only to accept this decision but to act properly and fully. What I want to pay attention to, and I'm actually addressing the President, the government and the foreign minister separately. We have, you know, a strong enough agreement between Ukraine and the EU on an association and a free trade area. There are three articles dedicated to ensuring that our gas system works and protects the country from any attacks that lead to greater monopolization of Russian gas supply in the European Union. Therefore, it is urgent to initiate a negotiation process within the framework of the Association Agreement, a free trade zone with the EU, in order to allow these three articles to work, and to prevent the final decision on the construction of the North Stream 2. That's the first thing to do. The second is to start negotiations immediately on the alternative filling of our gas transport system with gas of another origin. And that means we need to start a negotiation process with all countries, especially the big ones, who are ready to build our gas transport system or start construction projects on LNG terminals to fill our gas transport system with alternative gas. This is the way to act, not just to make statements. And I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u91	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u92	I am convinced that both the President and the Prime Minister are now obliged to make an extraordinary plan to prevent the construction of North Stream 2. Our team is ready to help, we have projects, knowledge and decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u93	Thank you. From the faction of the Radical Party of Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think that for everyone in Europe, obviously, who is capable of thinking and who today decides that the construction of the North Stream 2 threatens not only the national economic, security and security interests of Ukraine, but also all of Europe. For Russia, gas is blackmail, it's politics, it's not goods, it's a way of influencing decision-making. That's why Russia spends billions on building this stream, and paying for it, including lobbyists. So their key task is to influence politics through gas. Like 20 years old, Ukraine was on a gas shot, making a profit from corruption on a pipe. The oligarchs and the plus in politics made money, and so today Russia wants to plant the whole of Europe on this gas needle. Ukraine just got off that needle, pulled its head out of a gas can, and in Europe someone wants to put it there. Obviously these are huge corruption interests. But they cannot be contrary to the interests of peace in Europe, in spite of the interests of the people of Europe, because it is a voluntary refusal to actually deny Europe sovereignty. The more Russian gas, the less national sovereignty. The more Russian gas, the less the security of the country that gets this Russian gas. So the Radical Party team requires the authorities to take all measures to negotiate with international partners to stop the North Stream 2 construction. We thank the United States, we thank European partners who understand the danger of building this stream. And the key is to increase the production of own gas in Ukraine so that we can buy less imported gas, extract more of our own gas, it's the country's energy security and lower tariffs for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u95	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, 2 minutes, Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u96	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, I think the whole country and Europe understands. That the Ukrainian gas transport system is an extremely important strategic object not only for Ukraine but also for Europe. In fact, it is not only a guarantee of security for Ukraine, but a guarantee of economic security for Europe. That's why we're calling for this bill to be supported. And raise questions before Europe, sharpen the issue of the inadmissibility of destroying the Ukrainian gas transport system. We support this bill, we have to vote. I call on my colleagues to read carefully, look at and raise this question before their European partners. For Ukraine, it's $3 billion a year, and if it works, it works normally. 3 billion is the left hand side of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Thus, it is simply impossible to lose, throw, and lose, and even if it is a crime. And we support the efforts of the authorities today to bring this issue to European level, to raise it up so that they can finally start doing it. The other one. We understand Russia's desire to make from the Ukrainian gas transport system essentially metal scraps that have to be kept at a cost. And then two or three years later, ask Ukraine the question of digging up scrap metal. And so today's call, today's action is about not to allow this scenario to stop this scenario from working, and Ukraine has a stable yield of at least 3 billion dollars to its budget. And thirdly, this is really important economically and safely for the European Union and for Ukraine. If this system doesn't work, they'll put both Ukraine and Europe on gas supply. So whoever doesn't talk, Russian gas will be in Europe. And here's the question that it should work through our gas transport system, not through alternative channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u97	One minute, closing statement, from the "Will of the People" group, Shahov. In one minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u98	Luganshina, Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, today we speak first of all for the safety of our country, for the safety of Europe. We're still the last fence in front of Hitler's ghost, who's going there. But we also need to think about the fact that Ukraine has not fallen off any needle today. As was the 7th anniversary, and today in all the Cabinets of Ministers, it is said that the tariff will rise. We need to think about getting our gas and leaving it here in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we need to support this bill and think about our own gas. And he's in Poltava, Lugansk, Donetsk, everywhere. My grandfather said we were so rich and rich, but today we're buying it from Europe. We need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u99	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international cooperation on the inadmissibility of the construction of the gas pipeline "North Stream 2" and the monopoly of the Russian Federation on gas markets in the world" (No.8111), on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:44:31]] For 266 Decision taken. This is an important position of the Ukrainian Parliament and it is important that we today have been able to demonstrate unity on this issue. So the next one, as we voted, is the draft National Security Act of Ukraine (8068 and 8068-1). The Committee requests that the reduced procedure be considered, since a short period of time has been allowed to elapse. So I ask you to vote, please support. Vote. [[11:45:13]] For 185 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of the Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinovich. And given the importance of this question, I'm giving you five minutes to express my position on this bill. To be prepared: The author of the alternative is Shepherd Taras Timothyovich. Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u100	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The bill announced for consideration should become a key instrument for national security reform. Such reforms, which will strengthen the security and defence sectors of Ukraine, should ensure the preservation of Ukrainian statehood in the face of current threats and, above all, aggression by the Russian Federation. The proposed draft National Security Act has been worked out in close collaboration with NATO, the European Union and the United States. Its acceptance should be a significant step in the implementation of the North Atlantic Alliance standards in Ukraine. In general, the bill implements the ideas set out in the strategic planning documents adopted in 2015-2016, such as the Strategic Defence Bulletin. It regulates the activities of the security and defence sectors in accordance with the norms and standards of the European Union and NATO and their best practices. First of all, it is a system of governance and leadership by the Armed Forces, other security and defence agencies, which will increase their ability to face current threats. The bill guarantees reliable, civil, democratic control of Ukraine's security and defence sector, particularly by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and civil society. A clear distribution of powers and competences of security and defence authorities is being strengthened to improve coordination of their activities, improve resource management and reduce corruption risks, limit unwarranted duplication of security functions and capabilities. A comprehensive system of strategic planning documents is being introduced, and the mechanisms for their preparation and adoption are being defined. The bill also provides for special procedures for parliamentary control of national security planning processes. Ukraine's draft law provides for a certain codification of legislation in the field of national security, in particular the bill proposes to integrate the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Democratic Civil Control of the Military Organization and State Law Enforcement and the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning. Ukraine’s draft National Security Act is of a framework nature. It only sets up general images of the national security system. The bill does not provide for a detailed list of national interests, which in turn complicates the definition of current security priorities. These issues are suggested to be addressed at the level of basic strategic planning documents. Instead, the fundamental national interests of Ukraine are firmly anchored, in which they include: ensuring national sovereignty and territorial integrity; integration of Ukraine into European, political, economic, legal space; acquisition of membership in the European Union and NATO. The rapidity of the security situation makes it impossible and inappropriate to define at the legislative level a detailed list of threats to national security. That is why this bill foresees that such threats will be defined by Ukraine’s national security strategy, as well as by sectoral strategies, including cybersecurity strategies, military security strategies, and others. Approval for parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service. The bill is defined in article 6, which treats the ministry as one of the law enforcement agencies with special powers. At the same time, in order to stop any possible speculation on this issue, the President of Ukraine insists on the direct inclusion of Ukraine's Security Service in part two of article 6 of the bill in the first reading. Convinced, honourable colleagues, that your support for the draft National Security Act of Ukraine will be an important step towards strengthening the defence and security of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u101	Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Shepherd Taras Timothyovich. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, honourable people's deputies, honourable Ukrainians, to understand how our bill differs, we need to understand how the process of these two documents in the parliament walls has taken place. Almost two years ago, our Western partners in the Alliance came up with a wish, namely that the assistance they are providing to Ukraine today would be more effective. As a result, Ukraine will be able to get closer to NATO standards as a result of becoming a member of this union and, above all, to be able to win the war with Russia. We need to adopt a strategic law that is meant to become a Constitution for the entire security sector, a law that defines the threats that we face today and that can arise in the future, determined who and how we should address those challenges that we face today, identified tools for effective control of society over spending money on these measures, and control that the security sector is working to protect citizens, not against them, and, most importantly, for today, created an effective modern army that, in the context of the new soldiers, is able to provide decent cuts. The mistake of our partners, in our view, is that with this idea they have approached those on whom major changes should be made. Thus, sabotage took place for a year and, more correctly, imitations of the writing of this bill were found in endless councils and round tables. As a result, when it became clear that criticism was growing from the outside and from the inside of the country, something had to be written and placed in the walls of Parliament. The bill was written by those whose work was to be regulated. Imagine for a second that the Tax Act would be written by tax inspectors. We'd obviously get a law that would legalize masks, unlimited rights and zero control, or declare the service. The Presidential Bill is written in the National Security and Defence Council, whose members are those to whom this law is to be extended. But it was introduced by the President of Ukraine, in whose de facto power is concentrated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u103	Add. Please, just a minute. How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u104	I've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u105	Give me two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u106	And the President of Ukraine, in which, de facto, all power is concentrated over the security sector without any control. A rhetorical question: Are they prepared to write a bill in which all the activities of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service and so on will become transparent and accountable to the people? Are they willing to write a law that provides for transparent spending of nonstate money, as they understand it, and money collected from people in the form of taxes? Are they willing to show how much credit is being paid for general positions, such as those 3-4 years ago who had nothing, and today there are wealth that businessmen dream of having 20 or more years of experience? Finally, are they going to explain to society, like "Bercutt," who killed the players, today became the ORD and began to put on the knees of those volunteers who saved the country in 2014-2015? We proposed to the Council of National Security and Defence, the Presidential Administration, its assistance, which was in particular work. However, she was neither needed nor heard. So today we are presenting a law that is written to build an effective security system for our country with you -- the security of our people. Written in order not only to declare our intention to join NATO but to start moving in that direction at last. We don't claim perfection, obviously that together with the second reading we can make this bill better. But we certainly guarantee that this bill is a bill on national security, unlike a bill by the President that guarantees the safety of its people, which guarantees a Soviet model of governance in the Armed Forces and in general in the security sector. A model where a person serves a State, not a state, is designed to serve the interests of a citizen. It's definitely not Nazi standards. And with this approach, Ukraine will never be able to become a full-fledged state, a member of the Alliance, and we will always be alone with Russia's eternal enemy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich is now invited to the committee’s report. I'm already announcing that I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, and I'm asking for a cut. No, we won't be able to look at it and crash the bill. Please, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u108	Colleagues who have to start their speech with a definite denial of the grades that self-help colleagues have given to the President's project. None of this, in view of the fact that the authorities are afraid of their own people, that this project is going to protect themselves first and not the main value of Ukraine -- a citizen and a human -- is in this project. This project is called to protect the state, the citizen, and any person who enters the territory of our country, within our borders or abroad. As far as content is concerned. There's been a lot of debate on the committee about the importance of this project, and different people have set out different directions. I want to stop at the extremely important diplomatic role of this project. In fact, Ukraine has been awaiting a plan of action for joining NATO since 2008. Indeed, in the 10th, 11th, 12th, there were subjective and objective factors that prevented Ukraine from obtaining this plan. We remember that legislative changes have been made that have clearly declared Ukraine’s nonblock. These changes were cancelled in the 14th year. In the 16th year, we made it clear that we want to move towards NATO, but in order to strengthen the motivation of our Western partners, in order to give us further arguments of Ukrainian diplomacy and the President of Ukraine regarding the demand, request and vision of Ukraine for entry into the NATO security alliance, we are today in the high parliamentary rostrum looking at the law on the prospect of security, where Ukraine's main latrine today is joining NATO, integrating into the economic and political space of the European Union and acquiring full membership in the European Union. It's about content. Many comments were made, both from our Western partners, who are coordinating Ukraine's NATO entry today and from Ukraine's scientific environment, and in fact an alternative project was studied in detail on the committee. In view of the following, the committee decided to propose to the session hall during the first reading to adopt a bill submitted by the President, on the basis of which, to complete the draft with a list of national interests and threats to national security, sources and factors affecting their emergence, including in the humanitarian, information, energy, financial, economic, anti-corruption and prevention of corruption within the public authorities, to ensure that the mandates of public controls are limited to the rules of national security, to the "national security systems" and to intertwin the content of the proposed regulations with the terminology of the project, to ensure that the powers of public control are limited solely to the rules of the State security law, to the legal framework of the draft legislation and to the legalization of the bill, to the legal framework of the bill, to the legalization of the law, to the law of the law of the law of the law, to the law of the law of the law, to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u109	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u110	item for consideration by the Supreme Council in second reading. You have been given a ruling, to which currently, under the transcript proposed by the reporter, Mr. Turkinov, the Secretary of the RNB, was included another point in order to ensure that the parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service is fully implemented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the order of article 89 of the Constitution. The relevant changes will be made to the second reading, to the second reading in part two of article 6. So please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. And I remind you that I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Please. From the Fatherland faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u112	Dear friends, there is no doubt that the country needs a deep, fundamental, comprehensive National Security Act. But the very basic basis of this law must be definition, and what we consider to be the protection of national security in general. And it's very surprising that this law defines as the main foundations and principles of national security for the preservation of national interests and national values. In principle, the law of life, health, safety, dignity, and inviolability are completely removed. You see, this is what we have to come up with in order to make the bill comprehensive. And as a result, the chaotic, eclectic interpretation of all the norms of this law, where individual articles contradict each other and contradict the other laws that exist in Ukraine today, and the Basic Law, the Constitution. That is why it is necessary, even by adopting this National Security Act, to make strong working groups that can completely reshape this law and make it much stronger. Identify all threats to life, dignity, human health, and our state. Actually, it's not there today. We would also like to make it clear that a bill, which is being drafted, including through cooperation with NATO, cannot contradict NATO's key requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u113	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u114	on civilian control over all security and defence authorities. It's not in this bill. And I still want to pay attention to what we're going to insist on. We need to predict 3 percent of GDP only in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, not in the defence force. And in addition, we need to predict a strong, consistent development of the military-industrial complex and no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u115	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u116	and at least 0.5 percent of GDP for the development of the Ukrainian military and industrial complex. The law should be refined in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u117	Thank you. From the People's Front, Levus Andriy Maryanovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u118	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This law, indeed, awaits the whole of Ukraine. The fourth year of war is coming. And you know, the main thing in this law is to define the entire architecture of the national security system. Without this law, talking about reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, talking about some fundamental changes in this system in general is futile. The worst thing about this situation is that there are a lot of good positions that are in the alternative bill. Let's just say we didn't agree to do a joint bill. I advocated that in the first reading, before the first reading, there would be the committee's revisions, where the proposals from the alternative bill would be balanced, but the evidence is that we see in reality that we can take on the basis of the presidential bill. What is important to us? It is important for us to take fully into account all the recommendations of our strategic partners in the second reading. First of all, this is parliamentary control of the Ukrainian Security Service. The second is the strengthening of public control. Public control can be limited only by the Law on the Mystery and Nothing else. Next. We have to get all the anti-constitutional rules out of the Presidential Bill, there are. Kabmin can't report to the President of Ukraine in any way in the field of national security. We have to make the bill 100 percent in response to the recommendations of the international community before the second reading. So I urge everyone to reject political intrigues, political reluctance to support, in fact, the Presidential Bill. I encourage the second reading to form a large working group, effective, with international partners, with scientists, with experts, to incorporate the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u119	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u120	To include everything that's best in the alternative bill, there's really a lot of interesting valuables. And go straight to second reading, be balanced and not play national security in political games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u121	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Shepherd Taras. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, literally a month ago at the National Security and Defence Committee, I think it has been a fairly balanced, wise decision to set up a working group that would work on the basis of two bills, a bill that would meet the recommendations of NATO, the Council of Europe, the Embassy of the United States, the ones that they put in place to really fit those standards of NATO and speed up our process and move towards this organization. And in fact, this working group has done a tremendous job and made such changes. Unfortunately, they did not form the basis of this decision, because by the time we read the second reading, we could already work on a balanced, balanced document. Today, we are invited to adopt a bill that includes whole chapters and whole articles. In accordance with the Rules, this cannot be done and puts at risk that this bill may in the future be declared unconstitutional through the Constitutional Court and, accordingly, it will obviously undermine our security system. So today this bill has also received a lot of comments from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, where, in fact, they refer to each article as contradicting the current Constitution of Ukraine. And in many articles, this is simply a copy of existing legislation. So the proposition of self-help is this. We're obviously going to be working on this document that's going to be accepted as a basis. If this is the President's bill, our faction will fully join in order to make the best law of what can be done. But in our opinion, it would be better to send both bills today to re-read the committee's first reading, to work out a joint document that already takes all the warnings into account, and then two weeks later, to put them into Parliament's walls, and then start working on the second reading. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u123	Thank you. And, colleagues, now you're spores by Ivan Dmitrovich of the Peter Dust Block. Passes the word to Winniku. Please, Mr. Ivan. And I'd like you to invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u124	While noting the efforts of colleagues from Self-Help to improve the Presidential Bill before the first reading, we must note that no practical aim is to re-read the Presidential Draft, despite the remarks that on some issues are absolutely right and worth the settlement, currently do not exist. Why? Because I've just read the draft adoption order in the first reading, which contains additional items to which the project is expanding and allows us to work on all the directions that have been observed today from the rostrum, according to the Rules. If we need it, we can turn it on. If the committee agrees, we can include it. If the room agrees, the text of the second reading will take into account all these comments. No violations of the Rules are foreseen. Indeed, we know that the Law on Depravation will now be brought before the Constitutional Court. We know that a group of deputies led by one of the deputies from the Opposition Block, 54 signatures, are now preparing to accuse the Russian Federation of aggressor recognition. We know that, and we have shown great respect for the Rules of Procedure when considering the Law on Depopulation, and we will do the same and will do so during the consideration of the National Security Act. So I would like to support all the patriotic deputies today, on the basis of the President's draft, taking into account the provisions of the ruling that I read under the transcript, including the one given to you today, and to send it to the second reading. We're going to be able to process it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, we've got five minutes left. Two performances. Guys, can I talk to you for a minute? I know, and we have five minutes. We've got five minutes, we just can't make it. So I say, one minute, one minute, Opposition Block, then Oleg Lazko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you two. We'll be there in one minute, two minutes, two minutes, and we'll be there in 15 minutes. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u126	Here, a coalition representative mentioned our faction about the constitutional application for the unconstitutionality of the law on the reintegration of Donbas. Our actions were logical, and we immediately said that the philosophy of this law was not meant to protect those living in a temporarily uncontrollable territory. We're proponents of the Minsk Accords, you've cleared it up and you're talking about the reintegration of Donbas. The reintegration of Donbas starts with what kind of policy you pursue with regard to the people who are there, not just about the return of the territory. We need to talk about the security and well-being of all people, about caring for these people that you don't. That's why, of course, we went to the Constitutional Court, and we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u127	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko. Oleg Valeriyovich! And, colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you of Simon Petlura's words: "The state above the parties, the nation above the classes." The issue of Ukraine's national security is not a matter of politics, it's a question of the survival of the Ukrainian state in the third millennium global world. We need to understand the realities in which we are today. To hope that someone will protect the Ukrainians, if we do not protect ourselves, we need to be naive and blind as newborn kittens. The protection of the Ukrainian state, the protection of Ukrainian sovereignty, the restoration of territorial integrity and peace in our country is a matter for the Ukrainian people. And it's not because that's what the Ukrainian Constitution says, but because the Ukrainian heart tells everyone who loves, cares and wants to live in our best country. Therefore, the Radical Party team will vote in favour of this bill. But at the same time, according to article 16 of the Constitution, there is a concept of environmental security. Article 17 establishes an economic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u129	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u130	Can I finish? What is it? We're talking about key strategic defining things -- you give me a minute! You're talking about canceling the electronic declaration to the grantors in the middle of the day. When it comes to restoring territorial integrity, protecting people's lives, bringing them home, bringing people back to their homes, you give them 1 minute. Wrong! That's why we think that the bill has to be very carefully worked out, because national security is not just military security. Food, environmental, energy, information, and a range of other safety concerns. And the key. We need to understand that in order for us to survive, to win, we have an extremely important international support front. To all our leaders and Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u131	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u132	Both American and European leaders need to understand one correct truth: Ukrainians defend not only themselves, Ukrainians defend peace in Europe. We want peace to be restored. Let the Ukrainian 2 million return to our Donetsk and Lugansk. We want to stop Russian aggression. We are seeking, after the liberation of Ukraine, to make an effort to liberate Transnistria, to liberate Georgian occupied territories, to put an end to all military conflicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u133	Thank you. And now for the closing act. Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid, 2 minutes. And let's go to the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u134	Unfortunately, in the Presidential Bill we have another fraud on page 35. There's no NATO, there's no national security. NATO is a system based. The collective security system is based on the principles of democracy. The bill you're proposing, based on the principles of authoritarianism, are uncombined systems. Civil parliamentary control is not a declaration in law. Civilian parliamentary control is a transparent defence budget that has become a commercial activity for most of you today or for many of you. Civilian parliamentary control is the control over the Generality so that we don't have the Broad Line and the disgrace that our soldiers experience. Commanding and controlling NATO standards is not the chaos you propose in your bill. This is a system that will preserve the dignity and life of a soldier. And intelligence control is also a system that will allow the Security Service to finally free itself from the need to persecute the President's business and political opponents. Sadly, though, there are no such things on the 35 pages that are empty. If you continue to adopt such laws, you will destroy Ukraine's national security with your hands and lose the possibility of joining NATO and gaining your allies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u135	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft National Security Act of Ukraine first, No. 8068, on a committee proposal based on the committee's proposals with this right, which Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Alexander Turchinov, quoted from the Chamber of Parliament by John Vinnick, based on. Colleagues, please vote, please support. What the representative of the committee said under the transcript is fully included in the body of the first reading. You got it, right? Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:17:16]] For 265 Decision taken. I want to be productive in my second reading. I'm convinced that the task force should do the utmost to get us out of the agreed law for second reading. Please, according to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 117, "National Front" – 78, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 1, Radical Party – 19, "Fathership" – 15, "Will of the People" – 14, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. And, colleagues, I want to remind you that we have two more bills that we've included in the agenda. And we have them. No, after the break, of course, there's a statement about the performance, but it'll be after the break. I remind you that after a break, we will first consider Law 8015, it is unifying, and then it is 6052. These are the two laws that will stand after the break, and then we will continue the agenda: ratification and the Law on Diplomatic Service. Now, according to the Rules, there is a break of 12:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for a break. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for further work. Please invite the deputies to the hall. As the national MPs enter the hall, I would like to inform you that during the vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer to the international partnership regarding the inadmissibility of the North Stream 2 pipeline, Michael Humil's card and Rosenblatt's not working. Therefore, I publicly announce that two national deputies publicly announce their support for the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, I've been meaning to consult you that we have the next Diplomatic Service Act on a daily basis. But we also put the bill of Law 8015 and 6052 in order. And actually they're already involved, I can put them on. But there's a proposal from the committee, given that we might not be able to take on even a reduced procedure right now, maybe the ones we included for going through would be considered after the service. And now we'd start with the service, because it's her. It'll take about half an hour, 40 minutes. In the meantime, we will mobilize the people's deputies, and then it will be much faster and easier to pass these laws that we have included. Is it supported? Yes. It's a second reading diplomatic service. It does not need a special procedure if there is such general logic then. And it's accepted. Then, with your permission, I'm announcing a transition to the draft Law on Diplomatic Service, 7322. I'd like all the right-wing authors to prepare to work in the hall. And I invite you to a report by the deputy chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Tarasius Boris Ivanovich, who has been preparing this bill for a long time both at the level of the working group and at the level of the committee. And I invite him to the floor and to the speech. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head, for your presentation and warm words. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have the honour of reporting on behalf of the committee on the second reading of the Law on Diplomatic Service. What about diplomatic service? In fact, we have three fronts in the country. One of the fronts is the military, where our military, volunteers, law enforcement officers are bravely fighting. The second front is an anti-corruption front where all societies and democratic forces fight corruption. And the third front is finally the diplomatic front, the diplomatic front, which is held by about 2,000 representatives of this profession, the diplomatic service. On December 20, last year, we celebrated 100 years of Ukrainian diplomatic service. And it would be desirable, of course, that this Law on the Service of Diplomacy be given to our Ukrainian diplomats just before that date, unfortunately, that did not work out. As you know, in the first reading, the law was passed on December 7, last year. As a representative of the diplomatic service, I want to say that I am proud to be part of this profession that I have given 40. Almost 43 years out of 100 years of diplomatic service. And I'm proud of the diplomatic service because, I remind you, during the Orange Revolution in 2004, it was the diplomatic service that stood up to the people, spoke with the people, more than 500 representatives of the diplomatic service abroad and in the central apparatus that supported the people and supported democracy. And I think it gives us reason to say that our diplomats are not just professionals, they're still patriots of our state. Here I want to show you, there are references to us people's deputies and signatures, signatures of 1 thousand 377 representatives of the diplomatic service abroad and in the central apparatus where they address you and ask you, "Keep the Law on Diplomatic Service." I hope that the Supreme Council, all of us with you, will support the Law on Diplomatic Service, thereby giving further arguments to the representatives of the diplomatic front, to all representatives of the diplomatic profession. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u138	Thank you very much. Boris Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I will now call the rights authors and give my word. But I want to let you know right away that I've been approached by the author of more than 20 rights, Victor Ivanovich Vuk, and I said that he's ready instead of 20 performances per minute to take one complex statement for 5 minutes and then put a part of those voting rights. I think it'll help organize our work better and shorten the consideration of the bill. And that's why I'm giving five minutes for Victor Ivanovich's speech, which is going to be able to come up with the concept that he suggested in the working group, and on his own terms. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepared for the second reading of the draft Law on the Service of Diplomacy, sadly, have the same two. Two fundamental flaws, as well as the text introduced for the first reading, for which the faction of the Radical Party did not vote. As we know, the Devil is in detail. First, the bill does not correspond to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961, ratified in Ukraine. Secondly, the bill in an entirely artificial and unwarranted way greatly enhances the diplomatic service and increases the additional hundreds of millions of dollars of expenses on the neck of our taxpayer citizens. In accordance with article 9 of the Constitution, ratified international treaties are part of Ukraine’s legislation. This is directly applicable in the field of diplomatic service. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations defines basic concepts and terminology that determine what diplomatic service is, by virtue of international law. In particular, article 1 of the Convention clearly sets out three distinct categories of staff of diplomatic institutions, namely diplomatic personnel, administrative and technical staff. This bill uses a completely different terminology than the one envisioned by the Vienna Convention. First, the project combines two different categories of workers -- diplomatic staff and administrative and technical -- into one concept of "ministers of diplomatic service", and then on this artificial concept, which does not exist in international law, the whole law is built. Think about it: not only do we have diplomatic officials, but also administrative officials, and they have all the benefits, especially the social benefits, which are inherent and are based on diplomats. Article 1 of the law, defining diplomatic service, says that it is the professional activity of so - called officials of the diplomatic service. That's why we have administrative and technical staff, it turns out, along with diplomats, will be implementing Ukraine's foreign policy, protecting its national interests in international relations, protecting citizens' rights and interests abroad, etc. So the activity specific to diplomats is extended to accountants, accountants, referees and other administrative and technical staff working at VIP institutions and in an artificial way united with diplomats under the notion of "a member of the diplomatic service." Similarly, the project introduces another basic artificial concept, the so-called "diplomatic workers", which, apart from diplomats, is added to the third category of the Vienna Convention, namely "servicing staff", such as drivers and others. The law is still being built around these diplomatic workers to a large extent, including transport abroad of family members, training of children in foreign kindergartens and schools, rent of housing and utilities, repatriation of remains and payment of State budget contributions to the Pension Fund to non-working members of the families of these workers in diplomatic institutions. For example, we take Ukraine to the foreign branch of an accountant, a businessman or a driver, his unemployed wife or husband, his children, and we pay for it all at the expense of the state budget. That is why we are completely artificially and unwarrantedly improving our diplomatic service and hanging these additional hundreds of millions of dollars on taxpayers. This is not how diplomatic services of other civilized countries work, and you know this well on the examples of foreign embassies in Kiev. Besides, why we don't want to take on the administrative and technical services of our Ukrainian employees, hundreds of thousands and millions of whose diplomas are already being distributed around the world. Instead of introducing workers at the expense of the budget, I would stress, not diplomats with their families from Ukraine, we can work in embassies of already living Ukrainians abroad. So my corrections, and about 25 of them all over the text, are systematically correcting this situation. The bill could only be supported if it was brought into line with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, common sense, and the infamous waste of budgetary resources. I also point out that in the case of today's adoption, this will give rise to a charge against this law before the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional. Thus, a lobbyist, clanistic, and cynical bill is being extended to our citizens for a beautiful reason for reforming the state service. I call on the people's deputies this Thursday not to support this unclean bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u140	Thank you. And, fellows, I'm about to put to the vote the fines that the national deputy wolf was reporting on. But before that, I will be able to comment on Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's position. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u141	Thank you. I want to say right away that some of the amendments that our fellow MP Wolf has made have been rejected by the committee, some amendments have been accepted, so that not all of the amendments he mentioned refer to this category. In terms of the purpose of criticizing our colleague, I have to say that the terms "diplomatic service workers" and "diplomatic service officers" are general. And they spread to diplomatic, administrative and staff who perform service functions that correspond to terminology, which corresponds to the terminology of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations in the 61st year. So the committee based on these motives and rejected the amendments of our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u142	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote 1 of the People's MP Victor Vuk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:02:00]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 2 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Vuka. Anyone who supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. Yes, the committee rejected her. [[13:02:21]] For-54 The decision is not taken. And the 3rd amendment of the People's Deputy Victor Ivanovich Vuka. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[13:02:43]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Victor Ivanovich, you do not insist on the following amendments. Thank you for your fruitful work in preparing the law for second reading. And we're going to the next line. I'll tell you, the committee really had a very professional and very professional discussion. And it's actually a good thing that they made the agreed decision. And I know how many souls and hearts Victor Wolf has given a great professional to improve the law. So I'm going to read the following amendments. Four. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. He insists. It's a valve. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u143	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I support today's bill, I've been in a working group that I've produced, and we've worked very hard on the committee to get this law approved, I hope it gets support. At the same time, I insist on the 14th right and I propose in paragraph 3 of the fourth part of article 5 the word "approved by the President of Ukraine" to replace the word "approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine". I'll make it worth your while. The proposed norm contains a novelty, which is in fact contrary to constitutional provisions regarding the exercise of State authority on the basis of its division. I am talking about article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as exceptions to the powers of the President of Ukraine are established by the Constitution. Thus, the Head of State of Ukraine represents the state in international relations, at the same time implementing the external relations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is why I propose my amendment and ask that it be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u144	The author’s explanation of the amendment is understandable. I'm asking, Your Honor, to vote for this amendment now, the committee has rejected it. Please be sure. [[13:05:08]] For-73 73 votes. This amendment does not take the necessary number of votes. Please, the next 15 amendments to Captain. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u145	Thank you, Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. Again, going back to what Svetlana Zalitschuk just said, I also believe that the President has both the Constitution and other laws as an executive branch of power. The executive branch of power is either the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So any position and documents relating to the diplomatic service must be approved according to the distribution of power by the executive authorities themselves. In this case, I propose that this be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it is the formulation of foreign policy according to legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u146	Thank you for explaining the correction. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk wants to answer why the committee rejected her. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u147	Thank you. The committee considered the amendment and rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment number 15 of the People's Deputies, Captain and other colleagues. Please. [[13:06:46]] For-61 61 deputies supported it and it didn't go through. The next 17th, there's also Mrs. Sotnik. Don't insist. Then the 20th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 21st, Ednak. Which one? Don't you insist? I'll pay attention to you. I'm sorry. 21st. Don't insist. 24th, Fishbuck. Don't insist. 29th, Scrum. Don't insist. 32nd, Captain. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u149	Thank you. The 32 amendments refer to the exclusion of the heads of the structural units of the Foreign Affairs Authority from the list of diplomatic posts. There is, of course, a question about what there are, for example, moments when it is necessary. But I'm sorry, it would have to be detailed here, specifically about the positions. Or, for example, if we're talking about some people who are responsible for material and technical security, for example, what kind of diplomatic office is it in the MFN organs? So I insist that this is to be excluded from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u150	Thank you for your clarification. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, the position of the committee is now presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u151	Thank you. The committee considered the proposal and rejected it. The question is that the bill states that it is the diplomatic status of those heads of the Department of Foreign Affairs, who have the function of ensuring the production of foreign policy. How can you imagine that the head of the political department would not have diplomatic status? Similarly, it is not possible to imagine that there is no diplomatic status in the heads of the territorial units that run foreign institutions in the respective regions and that they contact diplomats here in Kiev. They must, of course, have diplomatic status. Those who do not perform the function of foreign policy, and these are representatives of the financial services, the administrative services, they will not automatically have diplomatic status under this law, the committee has rejected these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u152	The explanation is understandable. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine with amendment 32. Please vote. [[13:09:44]] For-69 69 votes in favour of the amendment, she declines. Next amendment 36, People’s Deputy Fréz, Teteruk. Don't insist. The next amendment is 45, Mrs. Sotnik, Helen Sotnik. Don't insist. Thank you. Next 47th. They don't insist on coworkers. 48th, Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u153	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. First of all, thank you to the committee for the professional and quality preparation of the bill. Most of my rights were taken into account, personally Boris Ivanovich, for being such a leader and an ice-truck in this bill. Boris Ivanovich, my 48th amendment has been rejected, which says that the ambassadors, the representatives of Ukraine in international organizations, are assigned to positions and are dismissed from office as President of Ukraine for the appointment of a foreign minister. My legislative position is that such an assignment should take place in agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs. A deputy who deals directly with the external diplomatic relationship of Ukraine should also participate in the appointment of such high-level owners. And this is an additional guarantee that such positions will be clearly chosen by deserving representatives. Please support my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u154	Please comment, Boris Ivanovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u155	Thank you. Thank you. The committee considered the amendment made by Rybchin’s colleague and decided to take it into account in part in the following amendment, which was considered and incorporated by the committee, namely Amendment 51. So the content of the proposal by Deputy Rybchin is included in the amendment, which was supported by Committee No. 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Please specify for sound correction number 48. Everything's being filmed. I'm sorry. Thank you. Next 50, Captain. Olena Sotnik, 50? No, you don't. 52rd, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u157	Thank you, Madam Chairman! 52 The amendment refers to a very fundamental point — the role of Parliament and the committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee, in the appointment of ambassadors. I know that in the first version of the document, including a very long-standing working group headed by Boris Tarasyuk, it was clearly stated that all appointments of ambassadors should take place in consultation with the committees. This has been the case before, and the committee has always played a key role in this. Regrettably, the President submitted a project that did not provide for such a committee. I insist that this role, an important role, should be returned to the committee, and accordingly, will strengthen our status as a parliament with you, just when we appoint important representatives, that is, ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u158	Please comment Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u159	Thank you. On behalf of the committee, I wanted to express my gratitude to Stotnik’s colleague for her active work on the text of the law. At the same time, I want to say that the content of this amendment is included in Amendment 51, supported by the Committee. The only thing that's not there is that this consultation is taking place with the Foreign Ministry College. In my practice, I can say that it is very difficult in practice to implement, especially since neither the Committee on Foreign Affairs under the Constitution nor the colleagues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have legal personality in the matter of the appointment of heads of diplomatic representation. Thank you, however, Comrade Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u160	Thank you for your clarification. I'm asking you to determine about amendment 52. [[13:14:10]] Z-71 71 votes not supported. Next 61st, Svetlan's Reserve. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I propose in my right that the position of diplomatic representation be confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I come from the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine clearly divides the powers of the President of Ukraine and of our executive power, and it is on the government that foreign policy is being implemented. So, based on logic and my previous amendment, I propose that the position of diplomatic representation be confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine itself. So we keep going. In order to avoid the dualism of power established in today's system. Please vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u162	Thank you for explaining your correction. I'm asking you to identify 61 amendments, dear colleagues. [[13:15:18]] For-75 The committee rejected the amendment and rejected it. She's the only one who gets 75 votes. 62 revisions, Capplin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u163	The Constitution of Ukraine sets out a comprehensive list of the powers and competences of the President of Ukraine. And according to these constitutional rules, he certainly should not assert the position of diplomatic advisers. I propose to support my amendment and thus ensure that this law does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u164	Please be sure to make 62 adjustments. [[13:16:12]] For-66 66 votes for, the amendment declines. Next up is 63rd, Captain. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, let's ask some questions. Well, why, according to the editorial, and I don't know what the President, from which document, is he supposed to issue documents of a binding nature for the central executive authorities? Well, where did this fantasy come from with the President and the President's Administration? I insist that any documents of a binding nature in the field of executive power should be issued by the executive and central executive authorities, that is, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u166	Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, give you the floor to speak to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u167	Thank you. I would like to comment on the amendments in question, number 61, 62 and 63, including the last of my colleagues, Stotnik. These amendments are about approving the Status of Diplomatic Advisers, Counselors, not Foreign Institutions. So I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 106 of the Constitution, the President's mandate includes the exercise of foreign policy leadership. Diplomatic rank can. Counselors can be appointed not only to executive authorities, but also to law enforcement agencies, which are directly under the leadership of the President, such as the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office and so forth. Therefore, after considering these proposals, the committee decided to reject these proposals, since the President under the Constitution has such powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u168	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, the committee has rejected this amendment, I ask you to determine the session room, 63 amendments are being discussed. [[13:18:23]] For-69 69 votes for, the amendment declines. Next 65, Belkova. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u169	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I do not insist on voting as much as Mr. Minister does before my amendment. It's about rotation. Today there are in the Ukrainian embassies. Minister! Minister, may I have your attention, please? I insist on your attention on the issue of rotation. In some Ukrainian embassies, workers working abroad who have completely lost their reality are already in contact with Ukraine. They do not understand modern - day Ukraine, they have been living there for ten years, and they actually represent incomprehensible interests. My amendment was to make it impossible for graduate workers to refuse rotation. Well, I personally know a few who have lived abroad for a very long time. I think they should not be able to refuse, they should come from one country to another, and they should be very dynamic in understanding and representing Ukrainian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u170	Thank you. Will there be a comment? This is a violation of the Rules, but I think we are necessarily, in this case, I don't think it would be against for me to give the honourable minister, who joined me in discussing the bill's diplomats to discuss, a word of explanation. Please turn on the microphone, Paul Klimkin, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u171	Thank you very much, Irina Volodymyr. I want to say that this is the law that sets the permutability of rotation, and it's very clearly prescribed there. So this law cannot be interpreted in such a way that there is no permutability of rotation. Moreover, it also sets up rotational procedures. They were previously installed internally, and we reworked them, and now they are established by laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u172	Thank you for your clarification. The committee rejected the amendment. I'm asking you to make an appointment. Thank you. [[13:20:40]] For-75 75 votes for. The amendment is not supported, it is rejected. We're moving on. Next up is 75th, Captain. Don't insist. Next up, 78th, Bereza. Don't insist. 81st. Don't insist. Captain, 83rd. Please, Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u174	I'll come back later. We're now 83rd, Mrs. Captain, we're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u175	83rd Amendment. In this case, we're talking about article 23, "The conduct of the staff of other state bodies of diplomatic service in the bodies of the diplomatic service" and according to the proposed editorial, the order, terms and features of the diplomatic service are determined again by the President of Ukraine. This is my position as a lawyer, including as a politician, that the minister is shaping our politics. Minister. And the president is implementing it. Therefore, in the present case, it is my view that the minister is also politically responsible for the order, terms and features of the diplomatic service, and I propose that this article replace the President with a foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u176	Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the vote on Amendment No. 83 of the Stonik People's Deputies. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:22:28]] For-74. 74 votes for. Your amendment is rejected. I return to the 81 revisions of the Ariev People’s Deputy. Please, the 81st amendment of the Ariev People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u177	Thank you very much. It's not just my amendment, it's a few people's deputies, and there was a whole group of amendments that came into the discussion of this bill with a cornerstone, and after the long negotiations of such boat diplomacy, all the parties came to a compromise editorial that was agreed upon with both the MIC and the committee. I'd like to read it under the transcript, if I may. Amendment 81 as follows: "6. Ukrainian citizens who hold offices in secretariats, international organizations, and foreign jurisdictions are members or participants in Ukraine, enjoy privileges and immunity and in accordance with international agreements that determine the scope of such privileges and immunities. Citizens who hold managerial positions in the designated bodies may be assigned a diplomatic rank in the order provided for in article 25, part four, of this law. I'm asking you to give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u178	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u179	The period of employment of Ukrainian citizens in secretariats, international organizations, and foreign jurisdictions, whose members or participants are Ukraine, is part of the diplomatic service. During the period of the work of Ukrainian citizens as judges of a foreign jurisdictional body, a member or participant of which is Ukraine, is also included in the service of judicial service. It's a compromise amendment number 81. And I'll ask for confirmation of Amendment 82.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u180	Please comment Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk on 81 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u181	Thank you. The committee paid much attention to this amendment, as did Amendments 80 and 82. At the same time, a new edition of Amendment 81 is being proposed, and it introduces new elements. And I propose to go back to Amendments 81 and 82 at the end after we have considered all the amendments before the vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u182	Okay. We agree with that. But I would also like them to express here their position and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how much these amendments, which are compromising, but how much they are responding to. Yes, either the minister of foreign affairs or the secretary of state. And how much, the room wonders how these amendments or their confirmations meet the European standards of laws that regulate the work of diplomatic services. Let's move on then. 85 repairs, Captain. Don't insist. Belkova, 86th. Don't insist. 91st, Captain. Is he insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u183	Thank you. 91 amendments apply to official salaries. And I would like to add that, in addition to the special requirements for professional competence, they may have influenced the size of this salary also the existence of difficult climatic conditions or a complex security situation in other countries. And as this is the last amendment that I insist on, I would like to say very briefly that I am very sorry, that such a good project is actually very much spent, especially on Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, to have him actually appear in this room. And I think there are a lot of diplomats waiting for him in all the countries. A very high school, which is one of those moments from the President's Administration, when they're cross-examined with the purpose of control, including diplomatic service. The president assigned power to himself in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u184	Thank you for explaining your correction. Dear colleagues, just, sorry, distracted me. We are now voting for the amendment of 91 people's deputies, Sotnik. Ms. Sotnik, thank you for your clarification. Please identify yourself. The committee turned it down. I'm sorry, the committee turned it down. I was distracted, the committee rejected the amendment. [[13:27:27]] For-74. 74 votes for. I'm announcing a rejection of this amendment. Next up, 96th Rib.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u185	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. 96 were proposed by diplomats and is technical. She says that the bill stipulates that diplomatic workers who are assigned to long-term service, apart from wages, receive compensation once a month. It was suggested that such payments be made no less than once a month. And the technicality of the law is that there are some accounting difficulties with which compensation payments as well as with the diplomat's salary can be broken down into several payments. This is a purely technical accounting thing that diplomats are asking for to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, I'm asking Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk of the committee to position the committee. 96 The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u187	Yes, indeed the committee considered this amendment along with the ministries and departments involved, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, rejected the amendment because it contradicts the practice that is generally accepted by all diplomatic workers abroad. This is about compensation payments to foreign diplomatic officials. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u188	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to determine the 96th session room. Please. [[13.29:35]] For-67
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u189	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u190	You've had it all. You've just had it. You just got held up. I'll make all the adjustments now, then we'll get back to you and Vladimir Ariev, as well as we agreed. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we're almost at the final. So let's go back to the hall, now 92 of the people's deputy Kaplan. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u192	Stop! Stop! I'm sorry, Your Honor, 92 amendments are the Wolf Amendment, she is. The wolf, 92 revisions, are the people's deputies, Vuka. He doesn't insist on it. Your 93rd, it's counted. It's counted. Please, 93 amendments to the people's deputies, Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, we have written the Law on the Service of Diplomacy and, unfortunately, we have forgotten diplomacy. This right takes into account the need to protect their social rights in full measure. I thank the committee for having this edited, and I don't need to vote on this amendment. But it should be remembered that these are our boys and girls who are protecting the economic interests of our country abroad, those who are protecting our political interests that are fighting for peace in Europe, Ukraine, and they must be socially protected. They are nearly one and a half thousand, three times more than the national deputies of Ukraine. And these are the people who have to be socially protected on our diplomatic front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u194	Thank you. An amendment to the committee was taken into account. People’s deputies, Kaplin, insist on a total of 93 amendments. I ask the hall to determine its position on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u195	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u196	People's deputy Caplin has changed his mind and he's simple. He thanked me. He thanked me. Okay. The last amendment we have to go through right now. Then we return to Mr. Ribczynski and Mr. Ariev. This is the 106th amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u197	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. In the first reading, the bill stipulates that in the event of the death or death abroad of a diplomatic service worker who is sent for long-term deployment or service travel at the expense of the corresponding foreign diplomatic institution of Ukraine, only payment is made for the repatriation of remains at the place of registration of the deceased. I suggested that the cost of a suitable foreign diplomatic institution in Ukraine should also include the payment of funeral aid or funeral expenses. Because we have to take care of the members of the diplomatic service, the citizens of our state, until the last. Because they carry out their ministry, diplomatic, consular, and dignified service to the Ukrainian people. The second part of my bill also applies to members of the family of a diplomat who were with him after his long - term assignment. Please consider my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee rejected 106 amendments from the People’s Deputy Rybchin. I ask the session room to determine the position on this amendment. [[13:32:59]] For-78 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we've completed the revisions. Now we have two deputies who demand an amendment for confirmation. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. Please return to the session room. Now, a word to the People's Deputy of Ribchinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u199	Eugene Ribczynski, Bologna district of Kyiv
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u200	Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Eugene, we have a little technical problem here, and Mr. Pinzenik, who is the author of Amendment 107, insists that we make it sound too. Then we'll go to the ones that confirm it. I apologize to Mr. Pinzenik. And please, 107 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to support the amendments proposed by my colleague Wolfe, and I'm sorry that they didn't listen to these rights in this room. And I want to draw attention to the continuation by law of the bad practice of defining specific pension conditions for individual categories of Ukrainian citizens. You can't divide people by different pension rules. A nonworking member of the family of a teacher or a doctor is no worse than a nonworking member of a diplomat’s family. The pension law establishes the only rules for buying internships, and these rules should apply to all categories of citizens. I'm asking for this right here, which is equalizing all categories of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u202	Thank you. Please comment from the committee on this amendment, which was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u203	The committee considered the amendment and decided to reject it. What are the motives for rejecting this amendment? The fact is that a diplomatic spouse does not have the rights that all Ukrainian citizens have, as spoke of by respectable Viktor Mikhajlovich. They're torn away from their country, they're torn away from their families, they're close, and they can't use, like all Ukrainian citizens, the equal rights to work. That is why they have been deprived of this right to work, and the committee has rejected this amendment on this basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u204	Thank you for your clarification. The committee rejected 107 amendments. The author insists on her vote, I ask her to identify herself. [[13:35:47]] For 105 105 votes for. Correction not supported. Next Pinzenica Amendment 114. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! The law provides for payment from the training budget of diplomatic workers abroad. I have the first question: can Ukrainian educational institutions not create this? Why did we create the National Diplomatic Academy? And secondly, we pay the salary, we pay the tuition for the employee's duty to continue working for just three years in the system. Is it not an expensive pleasure? I propose this rule of law to exclude, to put this right to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u206	Thank you for your clarification. I would like to remind you that the committee has rejected this amendment, and I ask the room to decide on amendment 114. The committee turned her down. [[13:36:52]] For-100 100 votes for. Correction rejected. Next amendment by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenika, 119. Can I have your microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! This and the next amendment are related to the same problem, and I want to get my attention anyway. As long as Ukrainian legislation prepares laws for specific categories of citizens, in this case it's about pensions, we'll never have order. Because we'll always find reasons why a category of citizens has to be regulated by special legislation, I'm talking about pensions again. In Ukraine, there must be a single pension law for all categories of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u208	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues! The committee rejected this amendment 119 and now I ask the session room to determine on this amendment by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, please. [[13:38:00]] For-103 103 votes. Correction rejected. Next up, 126th. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik does not insist. Colleagues, that's 132th. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik does not insist. I'm sorry I didn't notice your changes again. It was a technical mistake. Now two of our colleagues are demanding to make adjustments for confirmation. Please, National Deputy Ribczynski, and this is about amendment number 51. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u209	Eugene Ribczynski, Bologna district of Kyiv I would like to ask for confirmation of amendment 51, which provides that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will present to the President an appointment, particularly to Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ukraine, following consultations at the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Yet, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the President’s exclusive mandate is to appoint such positions. In the United States, the Secretary of State, or Secretary of State, is appointed solely by the President. The Department of Foreign Affairs is serving as the Department of Foreign Affairs. So I would like to make sure that this amendment is confirmed so that the Constitution is not violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u210	Thank you. Thank you. I'm the only one I want to call when the MPs are talking. Vova Ariev will now be acting on another amendment, do not interrupt each other. I will now give the floor to the Rules of Procedure to the amendment and then to the Committee and do not have to intervene in this process. Thank you very much. Let us honor each other. Dear Mr. Dove, I want you to listen when you speak, too. Please, Mrs. Hopko. And I ask you to listen carefully to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u211	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to unify the hall and say that: (a) this amendment to the previous consultation on the recommendation was taken into account by the members of the committee. We are and live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic and in fact we have already had this practice when many ambassadors or candidates came to the committee to work effectively afterwards. In 2010, Janukovic canceled it. We do not prescribe that it is mandatory; we have already compromised. And I'm asking the President's Administration, Bank's Office, not to rock the hall, because there will be no votes. We compromised one faction to give rank. Now you want to rock again. I'm asking you, it's counted by the committee after the big consultations, and so now I'm asking for 226 votes. If Mr. Ribczynski -- I don't understand the miracle of this amendment -- the experience of the United States and the experience of Lithuania and many others say, we are in a democratic country. Please do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u212	Remove his insistence and the amendment is counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u213	Please, Boris Ivanovich, one minute. And I don't think Mr. Eugene has been informed, and he's withdrawing his insistence. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u214	Thank you. Thank you. I want to inform the high hall that the committee has been looking at this issue and actually has two editors. The committee produced a project from November 2016 until summer 2017. And this project included an article that dealt with the Committee’s foreign affairs consultations. Later, when the bill was passed by the president, he deleted the article. The second reading committee decided to renew the article. So it's not that the committee is given any inequitable powers; it's not that the committee has the right to vote in the appointment of ambassadors; it's just a matter of consulting. So I urge the Hall to support this position because it corresponds to the function of parliamentary control that we should carry out with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u215	Thank you. Colleagues, I was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee when this procedure took place. It was a democratic good procedure. Mr. Eugene, as a proponent of parliamentaryism, takes this amendment down, and that is why we do not put it to the vote, and we support the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, one minute, Rybczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u216	We have true parliamentaryism, not prescribed Parliamentaryism, so I thank everyone for their cooperation. Your insistence has been heard, I'm taking this amendment down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u217	It's just a win. Colleagues, now Ariev’s correction. I'm betting now. I will remind you that Ariev insisted on two amendments, 81 to confirm the amendment. Yes, Mr. Volodymyr? Vote. I don't know what you're talking about. So, say how to put us to the vote, Boris Ivanovich. Please state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u218	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, first of all, I wanted to thank you, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, all of you who have supported this very important law for the entire diplomatic front. The other one. I would like to say that I would like to propose that the Head of the Supreme Council put to the vote the law in question, a bill that takes into account the Aryan Amendment of the People’s Deputies, No. 81, and in that case not to take into account number 82. I am asking to put to the vote as a whole, with the amendments that have been tabled in the newspaper of the People’s Deputies of Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u219	Then I'll put it to a vote with that amendment. You can't do that, can you? Okay. I'll do as it should be. I'll put 81. 81 is a negative, 82 is a positive. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, for us to have a clean procedure, I'm going to now formulate the right position. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I propose that we accept the 81 amendments in the edition that Ariev gave us under the transcript. Then I'll make an offer that 82 amendments will be confirmed. There's no need. Okay, I get it. I'll rephrase, please listen to both the head of the committee and the author. Before passing the law as a whole, I will make a motion to vote that Amendment 81 be included in the law with the law that Ariev has written under the stenogram. Is it accepted? You got it, right? And then I put the law after that. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please return from bed to the hall, prepare for the vote. And I am voting for the proposal that Amendment 81 be adopted in the law in an editorial form that the Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Ariev quoted under the transcript. Yeah? Yes. Please. And the 82nd was automatically deflected. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:46:03]] For 240 And now I'm voting on the draft Law on Diplomatic Service (7322) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. In general. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:46:32]] For 276 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee, Boris Ivanovich, all the developers and everyone who prepared this bill. And, colleagues, we have the next law. We have 15 minutes. The next important law is 7010. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, before the break. Yes, of course. And then there'll be the law. Now I've got a statement from two factions: the Radical Party factions and Self-help. They're ready to replace the break for three minutes. But, colleagues, I remind you, after that, we'll be able to pass one law. I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall, now three minutes for Igor Mosiyczuk's performance of two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u220	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for a moment. Today, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Prosecutor's Office have reported the opening of a terrorist attack under the Expresso channel, which resulted in an attack on me, killing two people and injuring three. The appointed performers are Lysak Igor, Gregorian Alexander, and Mátne Mihailo. The co-ordinator of this terrorist act was an officer of the General Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation. It's also been installed. The citizen of the Minch is detained and is in the Ukrainian Security Service investigative unit, showing, showing. This is a matter that I would like first of all to thank the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police Criminal Investigation Officers who investigated the case, the Kiev prosecutors who conducted the process. In addition, I would like to express my sympathy to the families of the dead. My security guard, Ruslan Kushner, accidentally deceased passerby Michael Mormile and anyone who has suffered from the hands of the terrorists. It is properly established by the investigation that the Russian Federation's security forces are behind the terrorist act. And considering all of this, I am addressing the Minister of Foreign Affairs (here present), I am addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, who has also taken an active part in the investigation of this case, requiring that documents be sent to the Russian Federation, requiring the extradition of persons guilty of this terrorist act, to be handed over to Ukrainian justice. If that doesn't happen, that gives us every reason to think that the Russian Federation is a terrorist country. One of these killers is now hiding in the territory of our occupied Ukrainian Crimea, the other in the territory of Icceria. Once again, I express my sympathy to the families of the dead and all the victims of Russian terror in Ukraine. And I am addressing the heads of international parliamentary delegations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u221	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u222	demand the release of murderers and the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor country. It is determined by a thorough investigation that the object of the attack was me. The goal was my position on Russian aggression, the goal was to affect the destabilization of the situation in the country and the position of our faction of the Radical Party and our leader, Oleg Láška, on the stand of national and national.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u223	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of the single window mechanism (7010 and 7010-1). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. It's a short-term procedure. I immediately inform you that I am continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. [[13:51:36]] For-157. Decision taken. I invite the head of the Tax and Customs Committee to speak. The author, I'm sorry, because I have a committee written down right now. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u224	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today, it is proposed that the first reading of Bill 7010 on Amendments to the Customs Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of the single window mechanism and on the optimization of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine. The bill was drafted in full compliance with the UN Recommendations, the Association Agreement and the Framework Standards of the World Customs Organization. We are amending the Customs Code and 36 other laws of Ukraine that relate to the interaction between customs and other state authorities that perform control functions or issue documents necessary for customs formalities: licenses, permits, certificates. All these documents are expected to be transmitted electronically to the state information web portal "one window" for international trade, which will be created in the form of a customs information and communication system. Today, it is known that such documents are obtained by importers and exporters in paper form, scanned, and scanned to the controlling authorities. The project foresees a reduction in the number of control bodies contacted by ZED entities in their activities. There are unnecessary obstacles to the export of Ukrainian goods. The procedures currently in place for controlling goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine are in line with the World Trade Organization treaties. Our committee received letters in support of this project from virtually all the largest business associations: the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, AsMAP, the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association. The adoption of this bill will reduce the time and financial costs of the operator during import and export operations, improve the business conditions in Ukraine. Please support Bill 7010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u225	Thank you, Oleg Yuriovich. And, fellows, I will now address the head of the committee and those who will speak. There's very little time, if possible, as concisely as possible. Burgundy Andriy Valeriovich, please. And as concise as possible, because we just might not have enough votes. Please, Andrew Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u226	Andrew George, Self-Help faction. I'll be as concise as I can be. I would like to thank the authors of the bill, first of all, the representatives of EasyBusiness Tetjani Palamarczuk and Yuri Zadrożna, who came up with the idea of drafting this bill. I want to thank my assistants, Vitalia Final, Oleni Gricajenko, Bogdan Gnutyev, who worked with the representatives of EasyBusiness for a year and a half on this bill. There's no alternative bill, my friends, there's a bill for the introduction of a single window, which unfortunately, Oleg, and I'm sorry that you didn't admit from the rostrum and tell us whose law is a little bit torn off by the people who wrote it. Strange practice, I think, frankly, but the law is good, the law needs to be adopted. I would very much like the committee colleagues not to do that, yes, and we worked together to make good decisions for the state. So I thank the drafters of the bill, EasyBusiness and my assistants. I'm taking my bill off the table because it doesn't make any sense, it's not an alternative. Who's more interested in looking at and comparing the explanatory notes to the bills, and seeing what our explanatory notes are, they're identical. Only our explainor is operating on the analytic materials that were made on my request. And the main bill, unfortunately, doesn't have them because there's nothing to submit. So thank you. I hope there's no such thing in the future. I'm filming my bill. And the main one, please support. It's really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u227	Thank you. Please. Nina Petrovna. And for the sake of passing the bill, I'm stressing once again the finesse. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! The "one window" principle is a mechanism for the interaction of declarants, their representatives and other interested persons with income and congregation bodies. Other government authorities are authorized to perform appropriate arbitrary or control functions. Which provides the opportunity for a single-time submission to an interested person, electronically, through a single information web portal, relevant documents and information, in order to meet the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on the movement of goods, means of transport, across the customs border of Ukraine. So far, the order of information exchange between the income and the congregations and other government bodies, based on the "one window" principle, has been approved by Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 364. However, its implementation is constrained by the need to amend numerous laws that regulate not only the organs of income and assembly but also other government authorities that issue documents necessary for customs formalities. With this in mind, in order to ensure the full implementation of the "one window" principle, the bill provides for appropriate changes not only to the Customs Code but also to a number of other laws of Ukraine. Bills 7010-1 and 7010 are virtually the same as the contents, different from them at certain times, with editorial refinements. That's why the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority commented on both bills. But I think that if you take these comments into account, the bills can be adopted as a basis. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine also made comments to both bills, but it generally supports them. Having considered the bills mentioned at the March 1, 2018 session, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u229	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u230	Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some other Ukrainian laws on the introduction of a single window mechanism and optimizing the implementation of control procedures when moving goods across Ukraine's customs borders is accepted as a basis. Thank you. Please support me as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u231	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. And once again, I call for flexibility, please. The Radical Party noise, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u232	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Honourable Ukrainians, the Radical Party supports this bill as all bills aimed at increasing Ukrainian exports, strengthening Ukrainian industry and economy, creating new jobs in Ukraine and raising Ukrainian wages and income. But I would like to highlight the second, extremely important, strategic bill for Ukrainian producers and exporters. This is a bill for the protection of Ukrainian exporters (No. 7365), which was developed by the business ombudsman team, along with experts from the Radical Party, which was introduced to Parliament. Moreover, it has been defined by the Prime Minister as one of the 35 leading economic bills included as a priority for the government. And do you think he was taken to the hall for consideration? No, First Vice Prime Minister Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba signed a negative conclusion on him, just think about it. Do you know why this negative conclusion helps? And because the Ministry of Economics continues to be a major source of corruption and banditry associated with the special sanctions of the U.S. What is it? This is when, for example, for the smallest time possible, for one day a payment was broken or a day later a product came not only to fine businesses but, in fact, to ban it from external economic activity. It's banditry, it's robbery, it's corruption, it's what's going on in government today. And that's why we have to put an end to it by adopting a law to protect Ukrainian exporters. In order to ensure that special ZED sanctions are applied exclusively in cases of national security threats. Only in accordance with the Ukrainian Security Service. We need to cover up these corrupt food counters in all authorities, and we need to take them to protect Ukrainian exporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u233	Thank you. Sergey Eutusek of Fatherland. Surgey Soboljevo, please. And, colleagues, please come into the hall and then just one more performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u234	Dear colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction analyzed the two bills. And unfortunately, it notes that the bill, which is considered to be the main one, has such a number of disagreements and its impossibility to implement it, that without taking into account the key bill that Mr. George passed, it will not actually work. Starting with a software product, ending up with those wonderful ideas that are supposedly described in the first bill, but that have no basis for their implementation. The first bill requires amendments and additions as a minimum in 12 other legislative acts that are not proposed at all. Without it, he'll never work. On the other hand, Mr. George’s bill allows at least the first reading to understand this key concept, which will put an end to the blockade on the one hand by demanding bribes in the course of the customs procedure of business subjects. But on the other hand, it will eventually allow you to create that necessary software product, to make changes to all the derivative bills without which this law will not work as a whole. No doubt, when we analyze the electronic declarations made by external economic operators at the border of our customs neighbours, such as Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and what we receive in our customs territory are like two different goods passing through one customs territory. That's why our faction will support the Jury bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u235	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I invite all the national deputies, and the factions' heads to invite deputies to the hall, to prepare for the decision. I urge everyone to get out of bed in a minute, and we'll move on to making a decision. Now I'm giving a closing word from Self-Help to Ostrika's Aunt Georgieva. And I very much ask you to invite everyone into the hall, after a minute of voting. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, Bill 7010 of Amendments to the Customs Code on the introduction of the legislative basis for the realization of a single window is very important. You know, the Cabinet of Ministers has been a little hasty, and from February 1st, it's already decided on the electronicization of customs declarations and all permits under the "one window" principle. That's why it's very important for us today to write this mechanism at the level of law, because customs are willing to do it, and adjacent services: controllers, paramedics, phyto-sanitarys, vets, radiological controls have no reason to share electronic control with customs. And we need to make changes to these legislations, which is proposed to make Bill 7010. I ask you very much to support it now on the basis of our committee's ability to take into account the government's observations and the comments of the GNEU. However, both the government, both the GNEU and the public councils of the DFS, and simply entrepreneurs, importers, customs exporters today are asking us to urgently adopt this bill in the first reading and continue to move towards the introduction of an electronic system for the establishment of all customs declarations based on the principle of "one window." The principle is very simple: all permit documents should not be scanned at any time; they should not be submitted every time, if issued by a public authority, the customs office will see these permits in its system. Thank you so much for your support. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m0.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Tetjano. Let's move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to return from their beds to the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of the single window mechanism and optimizing the implementation of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine on the basis of a committee proposal (7010). I ask you to vote and I ask you to support me. Colleagues, we vote, please support, please vote. Vote. [[14:06:34]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, and in what way. [[Noise Nodes]] So the decision is made, 231, the decision is made. Welcome to the copyright team and committee! For. Thank you for your quality training. We had a very productive job before lunch. After lunch, the National Security and Defence Unit, colleagues, these are extremely important issues. And I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock, everyone please arrive at the hall on time.
