ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Colleagues, pay attention! I want to tell everyone, two factions require a break. I'll give you a break before the question begins. Before we begin our consideration of the subject. To begin the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking everyone to take a seat. Colleagues, pay attention! But there won't be a break until we open the session. I now urge everyone to enter the hall and prepare for registration. And, colleagues, I want to tell you something important. Listen to me, those, including those standing by the rostrum. On this issue, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of the Turks is the main reporter. I report that, according to the Rules at any stage, the President may have the floor to the deputies. And I promised publicly that after the session was opened, I would give five minutes to speak to the President of Ukraine, and then, before I stress, before I ask the question, I would announce a real break for half an hour. Moreover, I'll tell you this is a normal and working system, colleagues, before entering. Is that supported? Supportable, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm asking you to prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please. You asked me to wait. Please, everyone, come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. So, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules, now, colleagues, I propose that everyone register to participate in an extraordinary meeting. I would like to emphasize now, I would like to stress, attention, that I am now announcing registration in an extraordinary session. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to register, please take part in the registration. [[16:38:40]] Registered - 338 In turn, I declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council. And, colleagues, I want to let you know that before the question begins, before I start, I'm going to have a recess. Before the session begins, I will be adjourned. Before the discussion begins, I will announce a real break for half an hour. This is my promise under the transcript. A recess will be announced before the discussion begins. Now, yes, yes, I want to report that I will now speak my position, then invite you to the President's address, after that half-hour break. So, colleagues, once again, I'm going to announce a consultation before we start to consider the issue that's been annotated to the Supreme Council session. Before we start. Yes. Can I start the session? I can. Colleagues, it's all right. I'm gonna say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. We've registered, we've started our next session. And I'm sure, despite any resistance, we're going to conduct it today and we're going to make a decision, and I have no doubt about it, colleague, and nothing will stop it. I am surprised when the rostrum is blocked when it comes to such matters. Colleagues, I'm saying that I've told the break initiators quickly and clearly that I'm going to be able to have a real break, and I'm stressing a real break before the question begins. Before the real question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, respectable colleagues, comrades, have been engaged in Russian aggression against Ukraine for the fifth year: Crimea and parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions have been occupied. Practically every day, Russian terrorists fire at the positions of our military at Donbassa. But for the first time yesterday, the Russian Federation -- according to the Budapest Memorandum -- one of Ukraine's security assurances countries -- openly, without hiding, applied against Ukraine the Armed Forces. If in the spring of the 14th year they were still trying to camouflage their fighters under "green men" and try to show that they were just militia activists, now the world has seen the obvious and irrefutable evidence of Russian aggression. [[B in m in s a l in]] After all, the whole world has witnessed Russian warships attacking Ukrainian ships under Russian flag. The state of Ukraine must respond adequately, decisively, and quickly. That is why I fully support the decision of the U.N.R.O. to establish a state of war in Ukraine. The attack on our ships is a direct, untraceable military aggression against Ukraine. Apparently, the front of Russian aggression has widened and has become unprecedented in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. Russia has directly violated article 2, paragraph 3, of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Protocol of December 24, 2003, which provides for the freedom of navigation for ships under the flag of Ukraine, including warships. Russia's goal is to continue the war, to maximize the damage to Ukraine's economy and to destabilize the situation within the country. I am convinced that the facts of Russian sea aggression should become a catalyst for the immediate and substantial increase of international sanctions against the aggressor state of the Russian Federation. Ukraine expects clear and strong support from the UN Security Council, the OSCE, the EU and NATO. If these actions of Russia remain unpunished, the outcome of the precedent can be global. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I want to say that no one is going to interfere. No one will interfere with today’s session. Today, we will make the necessary decision. Now, colleagues, as Head of the Supreme Council for 10 minutes, I announce a recess as Head of the Supreme Council. In 10 minutes, everyone please be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. I was approached by two factions asking for a break, and I announced it. Unfortunately, it's been going on for so long, colleagues. But I'm sure it can't last forever. No one can put the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at risk. That's why, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 189 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", article 5 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Legal Regime of Military Status", the Supreme Council of Ukraine today met for an extraordinary plenary meeting and will consider the adoption of the draft Law (Registrational No. 9338) on the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree "On the Introduction of Military Status in Ukraine". Dear colleagues, according to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now open. And I want to stress to you that during the debate. During the debates together we came to understand that the law would correct that the time limit for the introduction of the state of war would be limited from 60 days to 30 days, and it was decided that the election of the President of Ukraine would take place on 31 March 2019, that is, in the term provided for by the law of Ukraine. Ukraine's Prime Minister, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is taking part in an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Pursuant to articles 6 and 34 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine Poltorak Stepan Timofiyovich; the head of the General Staff of Ukraine, Muženko Viktor Mikolaajovic; the commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Voronchenko Igor Aleksandrovich; the head of the State Border Service, Zigical Peter Aleksandrovich; the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Grisak Vasil Sergiyovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] The head of the External Intelligence Service, Bogek Jegor Valeriyovich, is present. Congratulations, Mr. Valerius! Head of the General Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine Burb Vasil Vasilovich, present. Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich Minister of Interior Avakov Arsen Borisovich. [[Applause]] United Forces Commander Naev Sergey Ivanovich We also welcome the head of the Anti-Terrorism Centre of Malikova Vitalia Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] And the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, Allerov Yuri Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the next list of speakers is proposed. Reporter – Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of the Turks, then Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich and Chief of General Staff Muženko Viktor Mikolajovic. They are given three reports within 10 minutes, each one of which will be able to ask questions. We're looking at the whole process of full reading, i.e. the reporter, the question, three minutes, the reporter, the question, then the factions, the speeches from the deputies, and then the decision-making. Thus, according to the law, it is being considered. And of course, the committee's report is what I emphasized. And I, my colleagues, invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Turkin's Alexander Valentinovich to the report. Please, Mr. Alexander, in 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u3	In connection with the successive act of armed aggression by the Russian Federation, which took place on 25 November 2018 in the region of the Kerchen Strait against the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which has had serious consequences, other aggressive acts of the Russian Federation in the Azów and the Black Seas, the threat of widespread invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, its territorial integrity, with the aim of creating conditions for the exercise of State power, military command, local self-government bodies, the "encouragement, institutions and organizations of Ukraine's sovereign sovereignty, its territorial integrity, with the aim of creating conditions for the exercise of State power, military command, the local self-government bodies" of the Security Council, the Presidencies and the Organizations of the Presidential Powers, the necessary for the implementation of the military armamental armamental armament, the pres of the Security Council. At the same time, after consulting, you know, there was a President's appeal, where his initiative reduced the time for the introduction of martial law in our country from 60 to 30 days. Next. In the President's decree, military commanders, executive authorities, local self-government authorities are tasked with taking the necessary measures to protect Ukraine, protect the security of the population and the interests of the state. In view of the introduction of the military state in Ukraine temporarily for the period of the legal regime of the state of war, honourable deputies, I stress, may limit the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen in accordance with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Whoever watched yesterday's National Security and Defence Council meeting could see in the President's statement that he didn't plan to apply this norm, but in the event of a tightening of conditions, an exacerbation of the military situation, an increase in the aggression of the Russian Federation, we should have such a tool and such an opportunity during the introduction of the state of war. Next. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasked with providing the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military material and technical resources and assets, providing services and financing in the amount needed to carry out their tasks effectively during a special period. It is also directed to ensure full readiness for designated subjects of the single national civil protection system, their functional and territorial subsystems. The district, Kyiv City State Administration, local authorities have been entrusted with the task of establishing a defence council and ensuring that military commanders are assisted in the implementation and implementation of the legal regime of the state of war. And the next. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act approving the Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. The law is passed to the Supreme Council. The law consists of only two paragraphs, and I will allow myself to read its text. 1. Approve the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 26 November 2018 on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. During the period of the state of war imposed by the Presidential Decree, partial mobilization is announced by the President of Ukraine in terms and extent according to the threat of national security and defence of Ukraine. The Law is immediately announced through the media and takes effect on the day of its publication. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the President's bill and the President's decree accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u4	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I want to remind all of us that we are discussing a key bill. And I wish there was silence in the room, not consultation at this time. I now request that you sign up for a question to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council. And I am very much asking that we can listen to this very important discussion, and our television audiences and listeners also listened to the speaker, not to this noise in the audience. Please have a question from the People's Deputy Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u5	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, please tell us what concrete steps will be taken just after the important decision to impose martial law, and why should this be taken today? Parliament has two days to consider this submission. What exactly is the kind of screaming necessity that needs to be accepted today? Why can't we take it tomorrow with amendments to the legislation to ensure local elections, we have 120 communities going to the OTG to ensure that the vote is given to the presidential election, so they don't say it's used to postpone the President's election and not run it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u6	The Honourable People's Deputy, honourable colleagues, first of all, any charges against the transfer of President of Ukraine's election are groundless. In order to overturn all these accusations, the president reduced the time of the war to 30 days. That is, in the absence of military aggression, in the absence of a real solution to Russia’s full - scale war on war should end by the end of this year. I am convinced that all MPs know that the presidential election begins on January 1st of the following year. So, honourable colleagues, all the accusations are actually political speculation, I don't want to offend anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I have to repeat the request, the request of validity to each other in this room. Everyone was looking forward to this discussion. Let us not interrupt the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council during the discussion of the War Status Act. Please, the next question is the People's Deity. He's handing over his question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Alexander Valentinovich, I have a question for you. This is the President's decree, which is proposed to confirm where 60 days of military status and no military status are available, nothing is said about the presidential election. The president said he agreed to our request for 30 days of military status and for the presidential elections to be held on March 31st. I have a question: where is this order? Show us this decree, the new President, who, according to the Constitution, is to be brought to the walls of Parliament. That's the first question. The second question. Alexander Valentinovich, the President's decree stops the constitutional rights of citizens, in particular article 53, "Everyone has the right to education." Please tell us how depriving Ukrainians of their right to education will help liberate Ukraine from Russian occupation. You propose to stop your right to education, to speak your own language, to engage in entrepreneurial activities. I think you're declaring war, not against the aggressor, but against Ukrainian citizens, on the right to live freely in their own country. That's what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u9	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u10	First of all, dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we be responsible for discussing this important issue for the security and defence of the state. As far as the time of the war is concerned. In his address, the president made a clear statement about 30 days. He brought the relevant document to Parliament, and I'm clearly setting this position under the transcript: 30 days of the introduction of martial law. That's the first one. Honorable colleagues, second question, regarding the temporary limitation of the rights and freedoms of citizens. I'm sure whoever read the Law on the Legal Regime of War understands that the state of war is a restriction on the rights and freedoms of citizens. [[th m in s a l i]] The initiator should inform the United Nations. And in the case of military provocations themselves, military actions that can be predicted on the basis of this cynical one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u11	Please finish 30 seconds. I want to go to the session room again. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that our Ukrainian television audience is not so interested in questions as well as the answers. Please give everyone the answers, not your beautiful questions and applause. It's not a scene! Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u12	Respectful colleagues, the same state of war for all countries, have no special features in Ukraine, and according to international practice, the United Nations is informed of the temporary restrictions on citizens’ rights and freedoms. And the President insists that this will not be a general imperative limit, only where military action will take place. As far as education is concerned, when children are threatened, schools will be closed; if businesses are to be closed, businesses will be closed. The clear limits on rights and freedoms are set out in article 8 of the law to which I refer. And I'm asking the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, the following question is asked by the national MP Rephat Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I will support the introduction of martial law, but I don't think that's enough. I come from the fact that, as soon as possible, the PNB should approve a progressive plan of action aimed not only at the new aggressive actions of Russia, but at contributing to the depopulation of the Crimea and other temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. In general, I come from the fact that Russia's new act of aggression has to be really transformed into the beginning of the Crimea invasion. So, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, when are we going to see this plan?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. And what I'm saying is, really, it's not just a principle for us to protect Ukraine, it's a principle for us to restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine and restore Donbas, to liberate the occupied territory of Donbas and Crimea. But, dear fellows, I address you as national deputies. The message of our victory, our stability, is our unity. And what Parliament is demonstrating for three hours is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u16	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich is invited to speak. And I would also like to emphasize the attention of my fellow Ukrainians and all the Ukrainians on what I have focused on by speaking and reporting on the law of the President of the Security and Defence Council, which is what the President of Ukraine has by his initiative limited to 30 days of the introduction of martial law. And it's a shame that three hours ago he wasn't allowed to hear it from the rostrum. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear colleagues! I apologize in advance for applying legal terminology and for referring to some documents of international law. Because I want every Ukrainian to understand what Russia has violated and what acts of aggression it has committed with regard to Ukraine. Yesterday's actions by the Russian Federation on Ukrainian Navy ships are a direct and open and unscrupulous act of aggression against Ukraine within the meaning of Article 2 of the UN Statute. According to UN General Assembly resolution 3314, an act of aggression is, inter alia, an attack by the armed forces of the State on land, sea or air forces or by sea and air fleets of another state. What happened yesterday is an attack by the armed forces of one state on another’s naval forces. Using force in Ukraine’s territorial waters, Russia violated Ukraine’s sovereign rights to regulate navigation on its own territorial sea, which violates a series of articles of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Despite Ukraine’s calls to stop breaking the convention, the Russian Federation violated all the key articles of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Following the departure of our ships, the Russian Federation violated the law of the sea in the free economic zone of Ukraine because it attacked that area. The right guaranteed by articles 2, 56 and 58 of this convention. So we view Russia's actions as a consistent step and an act of aggression. We will also use them in the context of our dispute over the rights of the coastal state under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We believe that Russia's actions in the Kerchen Strait region are indicative of the creation of preconditions for the complete blocking of the Berdjansk and Mariupol seaports, as well as the possibility of preparing a blockade by Russia on the Black Sea coast of Ukraine. We have reasoned to all our friends and partners, to all of the world's societies, that any RF speculation about territorial water violations or planned provocations have no meaning, and no one believes in them, including the Russian Federation. Thus, it is Russia that bears full responsibility for the escalation of military tension and must be punished accordingly. I'm not going to give very detailed information about the international arrangements and contacts that are now taking place. You know that the special session of the Ukrainian-NATO Commission has just ended. Right now, the UN Security Council is meeting and the next OSCE meeting. We also make contact with our friends and partners in all directions and tracks. I would like to emphasize that our sailors, captured by the Russian Federation, under international humanitarian law, should be considered prisoners of war. That is why we are making an effort to have the Red Cross also make meaningful efforts to free them. The liberation of our sailors and our vessels is now a priority. The second key task is to punish Russia and strengthen sanctions. And the third is, of course, to increase the safe presence of our partners in the Black Sea in view of the conscious escalation of the situation on the part of Russia. I would like to point out that, following the Supreme Council's decision to establish a state of war and immediately after its release in the media, we will, in accordance with existing practice, notify the Secretary-General of Ukraine's right to self-defence in accordance with article 51 of the UN Statute. Although, of course, we will try to resolve the situation in a peaceful way in accordance with article 33, but we can see that this is impossible with Russia. And as a country that adheres to the requirements of international law and the UN Statute, we will report on the possibility of using weapons to protect us. Thank you very much and ready to answer any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes to ask the Foreign Minister. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. And to listen to the answers, not only to advertise your own questions, but also to listen to the answers. That's the same. I thought I got it wrong. Please, National Deputy Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u19	Thank you. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. Please, Minister, explain some of the inconveniences with regard to the task of introducing a state of war for one month. So what are the specifics or units, or measures, as you see it? What is the purpose? For me, the goal may be to liberate my sovereign territories of the Ukrainians. The other one I don't see yet. The other one. Part four of paragraph 8 of paragraph 7 of the decree states: “Reschedule partial mobilization measures, organize and conduct training meetings with operational reserve reserves”. But it's not possible for an operating circuit, it's at least three months. Do you understand? So we can't physically do this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u20	Thank you very much for your question. On the first question, what I have to say is, in fact, the key objective for me is, of course, to free our occupied territories, of course. And, as Mr. Chubarov said, it should be an appropriate start and capture of the initiative. But at the same time, and I want to emphasize this, we see Russia gradually and slyly trying to approach Mariupul. We see these efforts, we see militaristic efforts, and we see small efforts, starting with an economic blockade and starting with a wave of misinformation and everything else. So the main idea for me is to put this state of war together and concentrate on the provocations. And I mean, you don't have to underestimate the enemy. That's what we're clear about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u21	30 seconds to complete, please. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u22	Very short, in the context of mobilization. We are well aware of what we can and cannot do, just what the Secretary of the NPBO has said about it. I think this is the time we can use in the context of preparation and planning, and we all understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, the next question is Andrew Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u24	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Thank your colleague, Mr. Gabrieluk, for giving me his word. Mr. Secretary, there are two short questions. First. The expected IMF tranche that we expected after the adoption of the State Budget, is there any official information on the next tranche? First. The other one. I have a strong request to you to do everything I can to ensure that the Russian Federation, which has openly applied its military units, not only the fleet, but also the air force, is attacking the Ukrainian Navy. I ask that you, with the help of the diplomats, do everything possible to ensure that the Russian Federation is subjected to severe sanctions and that, as a result of its violation of the law of the sea, it is deprived of the right to pass through all channels, through the Bosporus, through all channels where there is international law, so that no military ship of itss can exercise the law of the sea, which it cynically and vilely violates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u25	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u26	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. What we are doing in our lawsuits concerning Russia and what we are doing in the framework of the International Arbitration under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, is only to allow us to impose such sanctions on the Russian Federation. We have to complete these lawsuits. Only the UN International Court of Justice or the International Arbitration can impose appropriate sanctions and talk about compensation. It's about the first one. Of course, all I can say today is that this decree should not prevent us from continuing our cooperation with either the IMF or other international financial organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u27	Thank you. And please ask Jehora Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u28	Mr. Minister, we believe it is the duty of both Parliament and the President to declare martial law after our state has been attacked. We also suggest that these are not mere words. If we're in a state of war with Russia for the fifth year, we're proposing that we break diplomatic relations, introduce visas to citizens of the Russian Federation, and stop buying Russian goods that we can manufacture ourselves or buy in partner countries. Then it will be a serious step, including showing our international partners that we adhere to sanctions policies that will not allow Putin to continue financing wars against Ukraine and other countries of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u29	Thank you. I can't help but agree to a third, that's a hundred percent. We can't trade at the same time and fight an aggressor with the country. As for the second, I've said many times that we should not just come to the visa regime, because putting labels in the passports of the aggressor country doesn't make sense, namely the biometric visa regime. Now we're also going to initiate a distinction between this regime and official and diplomatic passports with Russia. As for relations with Russia, I've always said very clearly that we don't need these relationships by definition, and we don't have that kind of relationship. But we need to find a form of how and who will help and worry, because unfortunately, the 2.5 million Ukrainians who are still in the Russian Federation are doing all the work our consuls are doing in the context of helping political prisoners. We're running this job. We think we have options, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u30	Please finish the minute. It's a very important answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u31	I just wanted to finish because it's an important question and we're all interested in it. For us, of course, for diplomatic service, it would be even emotionally better to have our diplomats here and not be in constant danger. It's perfectly understandable. But until we find an effective form of assistance for the Ukrainians, we are looking for it, and I hope that we will be able to make a decision soon, we will not make irresponsible decisions to go along with Russia. Our diplomats are currently engaged in no diplomatic activity by definition. This is only the help of Ukrainians and consular activities, which I can say in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, listen carefully to what I have to offer. Now, according to the Rules, we also have a word to give to the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Mr. Husband. But there is such a sense of the hall that each faction would like to ask another question from the faction. And the speeches are separate, of course. If you don't mind, we can do, I think if there's no objection, there's also a block: one question to any of the reporters, whether it's Mr. Klimkin, or if it's Mr. Male, after the speeches. Oh, no? All of it. Then we move on the Rules: just the speeches. We invite you now to the words of the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Victor Malek. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u33	Please, Mr. Victor, the microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u34	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In my brief speech, I would like to prove the course of events that took place yesterday on November 25. In the course of the planned transition of a group of U.S. Navy ships from the Odessa base point to the Mariupol base point, the crossing of ships consisting of two armoured artillery boats, one raider and a small dry-water vessel began on November 23rd. On November 23 and 24, the crossing of ships took place in a state-of-the-art regime, without any complications. On November 25th, about 4 a.m., three ships, and this is a freighter and two armoured artillery boats, approached a twelve-mile zone near the Kerchen Strait. A request was made by the commander of the visit to the Kerchen port control post, as required by the procedure, regarding the possibility of passing through the Kerchen Strait and the determination of the sequence and direction of passage under the Kerchen Bridge. No response was given, a repeat request was made at 4 am 7 minutes, and no further answers were given, and ships began to carry out further tasks, moving at a specified rate. At 4:55 p.m., ships entered the twelve - mile - long zone of the Kerchny Strait. At 6:23 a.m., the Federation's Federal Security Service and the Battleships of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation launched dangerous maneuvers to prevent the passage of Ukrainian ships into the Kerchen Strait. At 6:27 p.m., the Ukrainian ships were required to leave the 12 - mile - long zone. Our ships continued to carry out a planned task because the passage of ships through the Kerchny Strait is carried out in free navigation mode. At 6:55 a.m. in the course of maneuvering, dangerous maneuvering, one of our ships, and this sort of towing, was damaged, lost the course, and the ships were already moving, let's say, at a lower speed. Then, at 8 a.m., there was a link between the port of Kerch’s security service, which regulated the violation of the Russian Federation’s territorial waters. At 8:30 a.m., the Kerchen port dispatcher responded to the location of the parking area and to the waiting area to determine the sequence of passages below the Kerchen Bridge. No further information was available, and only at 14 hours did our ships prove that the entrance to the Kerchny Strait area to the Kerchny Bridge area was closed to military vessels. But according to the 14th hour report, it wasn't in the so-called "prypti" -- it's a coastal warning that's being transmitted in the general system of automated control and control of ships, the main apartment of which is in Spain. Although at 1:50 p.m., at 13:40-13:50 p.m., or at 14:40-14:50 p.m. in Moscow, three Russian ships passed the Kerchen Bridge. One guard ship and two boats, anti-diversion boats of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation. The motive behind the ban was that the proper passage was covered by a barge that sat on a track that did not correspond to reality, because before that was the passage of Russian ships. There was no more information available, so at 17 o’clock a decision was made on the return of our ships to the previous base, Odessa. Let's go. In addition, during the time. With the start of the transition, radio fighting was involved, and we lost contact with our ships. Also suppressed was the International Automated Vessel Identification System, the so - called AIS, which is a gross violation of the law of the sea. The ships were escorted to the port of Odessa by ten vessels of the Russian Federation and four of them were ships of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, and six were the appropriate boats of the Federal Security Service. On their way out of the 12-mile zone, they were blocked, but they came out about 13-14 miles from the coast off the Crimean coast, they were attacked by Russian ships, including the opening of fire to impress. As a result, three of our military personnel were injured, and the first information was that six military personnel were injured. Further, the information was that three were injured and three were injured. Ships were blocked, their connection was lost, and in the further, they only learned that they were by appropriate intercepts there, that those ships were flying under the control of the Russian Federation ships, until the direction was unknown, finally clarified, and today this information was confirmed, to the parking area in Kerch. At five o’clock today, 30 minutes later, according to a report from our intelligence agencies, we received information that ships are in Kerch. Soldiers, three who were wounded, hospitalized and hospitalized in the city of Kerchi, the name of Pirogova. The rest of the soldiers were scattered to unknown places, and their fate for today as long as unknown, we also received information about the wounded through the Red Cross. In addition, more information has been received today that in the course of the attack on Ukrainian ships was also used by the Russian Federation: the US-30 launched such an attack with the expense of two missiles. So the corresponding actions of the Russian Federation are classified as aggression, because the territory of any vessel is the sovereign territory of the state to which this vessel belongs, let's say. In this regard, it was my decision to bring the Armed Forces into combat "full" with a corresponding list of measures that continues today. Thank you for your attention, the report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u35	Thank you. So, colleagues, now it's five minutes per question, and you can ask the question by recording it. Please hold the recording. Please, five minutes to question the MPs. Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u36	Ariev, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u37	Ariev. Please, Mr. Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u38	My question is that a few weeks ago, the Ukrainian Navy carried out a similar march and crossed the Kerchen Strait and entered the Azov Sea. In fact, the Russian Federation and its FSB boats were just watching what was going on. So the principle of the passage of warships worked, worked, and was a legal couple. A few weeks ago. What has changed this time, in your opinion, and why is it that, right after the vote in the Supreme Council for changes to the Constitution on Euro-integration, the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine, the Russian military machine did absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u39	30 seconds, please. Oh, you're done. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u40	Yes, thank you. So, really on September 23, 2018, two of our ships made their way through the Kerchen Strait, following the same algorithm that was followed by the 23-25 November of this year. Then there were no special problems, although there were also attempts to block, but on the nose to carry out the raids, they were such actions as to refer to ships, to make collisions, and even more to open fire, they didn't dare. And then our ships made their way to the Azov Sea watershed to the appropriate locations of Mariupol and Berdjansk. What was the reason for the decision? And as far as it depends, let's say, on voting for changes to the Constitution, well, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u41	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u42	Not ready to link these events, but that the operation that was carried out after the ships were blocked and then after they were delayed using weapons, using weapons and carrying fire to damage, it was really planned, it was not a spontaneous operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u43	Please, the next question is the national MP, Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u44	Thank you. I have a few questions, Mr. Chief of General Staff. How will the state of war ensure the safety of Ukrainian military boats, facilitate the liberation of the occupied areas of Donbas or the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? First question. The other one. Should it not have been necessary to establish a military state immediately after the tragedy of Iloway? And the third question, and the third question. What is the fate of our sailors other than those you call injured? Where are they? What's the status? Is there a connection? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u45	I'll start with the ultimate question: the fate of our sailors. After three injuries -- I said they're in a city hospital called Pirogova, Kerchi -- we don't know where they are at this time. They were scattered throughout the city, perhaps even in other cities, and there is no connection to them today. We received information about the wounded through the Red Cross. [[B in m in s a l in]] A total of 23 were: 3 wounded, 20 others in different places that we do not know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u46	Thank you, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] You haven't finished your answer yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u47	Answer. Both in Ilowaysk and on the first question. As far as the state of war is concerned, it will ensure the safety of our ships. I think the introduction of martial law will not only provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u48	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u49	Our ships. The introduction of martial law is designed to ensure the security of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u50	Thank you. And a final question. Sugonako Alexander gives the floor to the question of Caplin. One last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, I wanted to ask you to make an exception and ask a question right now, the right to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it's a matter of great concern to the people. Can you, Mr. Prime Minister, guarantee that pensions, subsidies, social protection and the wages of ordinary Ukrainians will be intact and preserved in full? This is a question that concerns ordinary Ukrainians today and concerns me as head of the Committee on Social Policy. In the event of the introduction of a state of war. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you don't have to yell! People are concerned about what belongs to them today, and what you can take from them tomorrow. To get social protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u52	Thank you. I'm telling you, you have no right in this section to ask questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. So I'm going to ask you a question for the next one. Matuzko Olenna Alexandrovna. Please, Mother Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Man, I have two more questions for you. First: what will Ukraine do, do we have a plan if the Russian Federation now tries to block the Black Sea ports of Ukraine of Mikolaev, Herson, and primarily Odessa? What will be the reaction, are the naval forces of Ukraine ready for this situation? And the second question is, do we have coordination, and maybe you have some information about a trip to the Black Sea Basin of NATO warships in order to balance the military presence of the Navy -- one that is now using the Russian Federation's advantage over the Ukrainian Navy? Do we have information, for example, about the conduct of United States or United States military ships? Are we conducting appropriate consultations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u55	Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u56	Regarding the blockade, a possible blockade of Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea. And not only do we have proper plans to use the Armed Forces to protect the territory of our country, to protect us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u57	May I have your attention in the hall? Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u58	I'll answer in Ilovysk, you can wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not up to you to decide what court. I answer the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's like the generals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u59	Please complete your answer. And please get your emotions down in the hall. Mr. Victor, have you completed your answer? We're done. Thank you, therefore, colleagues. The time for answers and questions is over and for reports. Thank you, Mr. Victor, thank you. And we're moving on to the discussion, colleagues. And I want to remind you that we're looking at a full-reading procedure. And now we're going to have reports and statements from all the factions, and then nine minutes from the national MPs. So first. Please record from factions and groups. Please record it. Thank you. And from the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the podium of Marezuk Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u60	The constitutional obligation of the State and all branches is that when an enemy attacks the State and people, military, arms, and military conditions are involved. In the state of war, Ukraine since 2014. Ilovysk, Debaltsev - no one was running for parliament, to introduce martial law. And today, General Genstaba didn't mention it either. Then why didn't they come to Parliament? And today, on a large scale, this proposal is not entirely fair, for along with the War Status Order, the President of Ukraine is obliged to make an Order on the Use of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, how he will use the military state, where the rights and freedoms of citizens are limited, and people agree because of our vote with you, will be used to defeat the enemy. But we don't have it today either. Since 2014, we have had Minsk, which today, when we vote on the War Status Act, will simply be a political bankruptcy and proof that it was wrong. In addition to martial law, we must break up diplomatic relations today, close consular representations. We need to ban Russian channels and trade with Russia. We need to introduce a moratorium and stop, if we're going, privatizing critical infrastructure, power stations, stealth and others. Who are they going to sell to? You? No, not you, enemy. The Self-Help faction will support the War Status Act if it is clearly stipulated that the state of war will be introduced in territories that are now subject to outright enemy aggression, where there is war. And if the President or someone else in the state would use what the Ukrainian citizens put in their hands to help the Ukrainian soldier who needs this state will use those important ones to persecute not Moscow's enemies, but those who fight the regime will be a crime against humanity and the people will rise up, I'm sure. So our position is to vote in favour of a bill that will restrict the introduction of this state of war in territories that today are subject to outright aggression. This is a very serious matter and, Mr. Head, put it on a rating vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u61	Please, Oleg Lazko, present his faction's position on the law under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Colleagues, you see, there's a soufflé for the President, which is the President who introduces the state of war, without the souffler, he can't announce it. What's more, when I watched the powder announcement about how he introduced the state of war, he had such a satisfied face that he sold the Roshenge carriage instead of entering the state of war. Now to the essence of the bill. President Prashenko is the subject of the legislative initiative. The secretary of the PNBO Turkinov has no right under the transcript to amend the bill. President Prášenko, if he is required, meets our requirements, he is obliged to introduce a new decree and a new bill on 30 days of martial law and that the presidential election is held on March 31, 2019. But in fact, my dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you, and the honourable Ukrainians, what I'm proposing is not a state of war -- it's the deprivation of Ukrainians of all constitutional rights. Dustenko introduces a state of war against the aggressor, and Dustenko leads a state of war against every Ukrainian. I'm reading his decree. This decree limits citizens’ rights to the secret of correspondence, the inviolability of housing, interference with personal life, freedom of movement, freedom of thought and speech, elections, the right to peace, the right to property, the right to entrepreneurship, the right to work, the right to education. Tell me, please, how does a reflection of Russian aggression help to deprive Ukrainians of their right to education, their right to work, their right to earn, their right to speak their own language? Show me where is the reflection of Russian aggression? It is Dusty who tells us that we must accept the state of war. Yes, we must accept the state of war in order to protect the country. But we don't have to give Dusty, about the introduction of martial law, falsify elections and usurp power. And that's exactly what President Poshenko wants today. He doesn't care about the state of war, his partners were both going to Moscow, and they're going to Moscow, and he's both running and running the business. During the fifth year of the war, he suddenly saw the need for a state of war: he did not see the Ilovia state, he did not see the Debalts’s, he did not see the tragedy MH17 — he did not see, and four months before the elections, when he had below the plentuse, he suddenly saw the need for a state of war. It's not the state of war that Proposes Dustenko against the aggressor, it's a state of war against every Ukrainian. It's a denial of Ukrainian constitutional rights, it's an attempt to usurp power and deceive Ukrainians. We're asking President Dustenk not to cling to power or invent any reason to gain power in an unconstitutional way. Because when all these rights are restricted, no fair choices can be made by the new Commander-in-Chief to protect the country. There will be another 50 years of war with President Prussianka, for it is convenient for him. We're not comfortable with that. The Ukrainians are uncomfortable with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u63	Please welcome the head of the Perth Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Your Honor. And I wish we could discuss this important bill one day. It's not 95 blocks yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u64	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Ukrainians. The Party's Party of Perth Dustenka supports the decision of the RNB and President Peter Prashenk to enter the state of war in Ukraine. The state of war does not mean a declaration of war. The special legal regime is applied exclusively to the defence of Ukrainian territory, the protection of sovereignty, independence and the security of citizens. For the first time in five years of hybrid war, the Russian army carried out an act of outright military aggression against the Ukrainian Armed Forces. A similar scenario would be impossible if Ukraine completed Euro-Atlantic integration in 2008. NATO is a powerful force feared by Russia. Unfortunately, Ukraine lost its chance in 2008. The then authorities did not speak of their position on NATO by one vote. Regrettably, Ukrainian policies have also been involved in the operation to break Ukraine’s accession to NATO. If we were members of the North Atlantic Alliance today, Russia would not dare annex Crimea, would never dare to invade Donbas and would not openly shoot at Ukrainian sailors. The attack by Russian Navy vessels on Ukrainian vessels falls directly under the official definition of the term "act of aggression" in accordance with the UN General Assembly resolution. The actions of the aggressors have come to a new level and require a much more severe immediate response – the signing of the Budapest Memorandum of the UN Security Council, the OSCE, NATO, the European Union and the entire civilised world. Russia's unscrupulous attack on the Ukrainian Armed Forces needs a much more severe response from us and from you. In order to protect the State in a reliable manner, there was an urgent need for military status throughout Ukraine. To remind you, the threat is coming not only from the east but also from the south, from the north. Strategically important objects that depend on the level of sovereignty of our country throughout the country. What if the distance from Kiev to the Russian border is slightly greater than 200 km? But what do we see in the hall today? A bunch of lies, a bunch of attempts to overthrow this vote so as not to introduce a state of war in order to weaken the effectiveness of our resistance to the aggressor. And you know, today I hear a lot of talk about not being introduced, not being introduced. But they're not talking about the Ukrainian army, they're talking about the Ukrainian defense, they're talking about the elections. Yes, it's important! But let's not forget that we've been shooting from airplanes, including our sailors. Dear colleagues, we must now demonstrate the determination and unity of the Ukrainian Parliament in the protection of the independence, sovereignty and lives of our citizens. To that end, we need to support the decision of the U.S.S.S.O. and implement a 30 - day state of war. We pray for Ukrainian sailors and work for the harshest response of the aggressor. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u65	Thank you. And please welcome the head of the Motherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, we are in a state of war. We've been attacked by a completely aggressive attack. The Russian Federation's aggressor country attacked us again. We must respond. But at the same time, I want to remind you that the Fatherland faction of the first days when Russia started a war against us, an aggressor country, we demanded a state of war. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we are today. And today we're in a state of war. But at the same time, we need now to figure out how to protect our country. And so our team is ready to support the introduction of martial law. But we are not prepared to support the real destruction of Ukrainian rights and freedoms under the cover of war. We don't see why we're doing this today. I quote a few hours ago from the President of Ukraine. He said, "There will be no limits to rights and freedoms. Period. I promise." And this is the President's promise. And now I quote paragraph 3 of the decree, which was filed today with Parliament, which introduces the complete elimination of human rights under the Constitution. They stop 30th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd, 34th, 38th, 39th, 44th, 41st, second, third, 53rd articles of the Constitution. What is it? They're going to break into Ukrainian housing, not the aggressor countries, they're going to intervene in correspondence, they're going to intervene in family personal affairs, they're going to deny freedom of speech, they're going to free meetings, they're going to ban entrepreneurial activity, they're going to be covered up. In fact, all that's written here is the destruction of the lives of Ukrainians. Therefore, by referring to 190 articles of the Ukrainian Rules, we have the right to vote on the state of war with a partial text of the President’s decree. We propose to vote on the state of war without paragraph 3 of the decree. I will order the President to destroy all rights. Now it is up to you, the MPs on our part, whether the state of war will be voted against by the aggressor country, whether it will allow the military to work properly or against Ukrainian citizens. I'm asking you to vote without three points and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u67	Please, from the People's Front faction, Victoria Sumar is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, there's been a lot of talk about elections. I think it's completely inappropriate to talk about something else. We need to lock down two base positions. Position one. The Russian-Ukrainian war, which lasted 4.5 years, came to a new stage yesterday, because the Russians, under their flags, burned our ships. Position number two. The world is concerned, but the main concern is the fear of the Ukrainians. And our task with you and why we came to this room today for the next session is to do everything possible to calm people down. In what way can we do so? It is clear that the first thing to do is to mobilize all the possible military resources of the country to make Ukraine feel more secure, while the Ukrainian army is stronger. This is position number one, and we strongly support it. The second thing is extremely important. We need to stabilize the situation in the Azov Sea. Colleagues, this is a geopolitical principle position, and we need to be aware here: the Kerchen Strait is the path of Ukrainian exports, it's the two Ukrainian ports -- Mariupol and Berdjansk -- that heat up the goods of the metallurgical industry, which is the charger, actually, of the Ukrainian budget. And so the problem of the Russians is to block the Kerchen Strait, and we need to unlock it with all possible means, primarily diplomatic means. Next question. Nobody said today that it was our job to bring the captured sailors back to Ukraine, here, home at last, like the rest of the Ukrainian prisoners. We're so different from Russia that we care about our people. The next task today is, in principle, to avoid chaos and panic, because our disputes with you are not in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, but everywhere in the audience, they are intensifying this panic. Who would benefit from that? Is it convenient for Ukraine? It's advantageous to the enemy. If there are such currency fluctuations today, we can only imagine what this may have to do with Ukraine’s economy. Therefore, decisions need to be calm and balanced. Our faction has decided to consent to the legal regime of the state of war for 30 days, with possible continuation of it with those measures that primarily contribute to the strengthening of the country's military potential and provide the opportunity to protect the Ukrainians. But I am very much asking myself not to abuse the possibility of human rights restrictions. The law makes it very clear that there should be a reasonable need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u69	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u70	Don't give us God, today, to look at the media, not at those who work for the aggressor state, but at those who criticize the authorities. This will only destabilize the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u71	Thank you for your position. Please. Mrs. Victoria, Mrs. Victoria wants another 15 seconds. Please, this is an important topic -- human rights. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I want to say the key. Colleagues, if we're all going to mobilize. Let's mobilize ourselves here and start this mobilization from this hall, and we'll work, and we'll show the Ukrainians an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u73	Thank you. Please present the position of the Opposition Block faction, Alexander Wilkul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u74	Alexander Wilkul, faction of the Opposition Block. Dear people of Ukraine, the reason for the introduction of martial law seems very questionable. During the past four and a half years, the situation has been much worse. Crimea, Ilovysk, Debaltsev, other terrible tragedies, but there was no war situation. Because they wanted to come to power and hold presidential and parliamentary elections. In four and a half years, more than 10,000 people were killed on official records alone. No military status was introduced. Now the attempt to establish a state of war is the President's attempt to overthrow the elections and usurp power by taking away our people's last hope of a normal, peaceful life in his country and the opportunity to develop a country democratically. This is the path of eternal chaos, eternal buffer zone, and eternal war. The President deliberately brings war to every house. To remain in power, he is willing to fight for the last Ukrainian. There are two ways: the way of war and the way of common sense. This is the path of diplomacy. That's what we're fighting for. And we, as a country, should be the leaders of the negotiating process, but we should be the President. Not to introduce a military state, but to lead a negotiating process with all who can influence it: America, Europe, and direct negotiations with Russia. No Trump in negotiations with Putin, Merkel, or Macron will decide anything for us. They care for their countries. We have to take care of our own. We are confident that only the diplomatic path is the only right path that will lead to success. We will not support President Peter Prashenko in his unrestrained desire to usurp power and overthrow elections. And concentrate all the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government, the President, the Parliament -- all to bring 23 of our boys home from captivity. All the regime's actions leave no illusion that in the current President we cannot achieve peace. We will vote against the introduction of martial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u75	Thank you. And now I haven't been able to sign up for the head of the Rebirth Group. Please, Victor Bondar, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u76	But before that. Mr. Victor! Attention! In view of the fact that there are many who wish to speak from the deputies, I am increasing my time to 15 minutes of speaking from the national deputies. So now it's a rebirth speech, the group heads, and then it's 15 minutes away from the national MPs. Please, Mr. Victor, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u77	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! For four years now, Ukraine has been observing the tragic development of the military situation in Donbas, Crimea. We remember with you the most tragic times when Ilovysk, the Debalts. And somehow there was no military state at the time, and somehow no such decision was made at the time. But immediately after the latest events in the Azov Sea, four months before the presidential campaign, they decided to bring the military into force. We've been trying for a long time, our Rebirth Party, our group, to find out and get an answer, for example, well, today we've voted on the military state -- what happens next week, the next two weeks, what steps from power do we expect? Does this mean that we've admitted that Russia's military aggressor is finally and we're stopping all transport connections, trade relations, we're stopping diplomatic relations and other political legal mechanisms that have to be launched? So far, we have not heard the answer to what will be done. Does this mean military action on the eastern fronts of Ukraine, in the Azova Sea, and further military escalation? There's no answer. This suggests that the key issue that solves this military situation is the question of the postponement of elections. This suggests that the political situation in Ukraine is still at the forefront, and the desire is simply to resolve its political issues on the basis of the situation in the Azov Sea. Well, that's not fair, that's wrong, you can't take that kind of approach. What's more, you're proposing during the military state to limit the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, in the first place, and, secondly, to use any enterprise by legal persons of their own accord, and, in fact, by the wishes of the military-administrative ones that will arise at this time in the heads of individual politicians who today have a bearing on power. Ukrainians cannot be used, searched, observed without permission from the courts, without the permission of any legal mechanisms, nor can they be treated in the same way as legal persons, businesses, factories, and, in fact, shut down or open up, or introduce artificial management in enterprises that are uncomfortable. And the main thing is that you can't allow restrictions on freedom of speech. Because this military situation also paves the way for the closure or conduct of information policy on channels that are inconvenient and that allow opposition leaders and those who disagree with the authorities. So we still need to examine this process objectively, to stop and to take a healthy mind, first of all, to your mind, and to think that you want to introduce yourself, you cannot go into these processes today. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u78	Please finish 15 seconds. Thank you. My colleagues, I'm sorry, there's not yet a "will of the people" group and the word is given to the head of the group Jaroslav Moskalenko. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u79	Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! I am confident that Ukraine, Ukraine, is one of the only ones in the fight against a Russian aggressor. I believe that, and I want to believe that the Ukrainian Parliament is unanimous in fighting the aggressor of the Russian Federation. Of course, the "will of the people" MPs supported and supported the introduction of martial law in the territory. In our territory. But tell me, colleagues, why are we restricting Ukrainians' rights to freedom of life by introducing a state of war? The guarantees for the inviolability of housing have been removed, the guarantee of the secret of correspondence has been removed, the guarantees of noninterference in the family life of people have been withdrawn. Freedom of movement, freedom of speech, freedom of thought, and freedom of expression. There are restrictions on peace shares and private property. Our group has said its position, and we are ready to continue the discussion in the search for compromises, but for the limitations of citizens' rights in the form that is in the President's Order, which is now before Parliament, the MP's will of the people will not vote in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have now 15 minutes to speak from the Ukrainian National Deputies, and then, according to the Rules, we have yet to have a speech from Mr. Winniku's Special Committee on Safety and Defence, and we will give the floor to the Secretary of this Committee. Mr. John, not now, after the national deputies of Ukraine. I've just announced that your performance will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] The entry's coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened? The loudspeakers are breaking and computers are breaking, my friends! Aleksei River, please, your word. Please give Ivan Krulk the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u81	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, is it necessary to introduce a state of war at a time when there is aggression by the Russian Federation? Yes, I do. And the state of war was supposed to be run exactly when the first green man appeared in Crimea. At that time, there was every legal basis for a state of war. Where was this state of war to be introduced? It should have been introduced in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and protected our territory. Should Ukraine Be Protected? Yeah, we need protection. But not by doing business with an aggressor. It's not protecting Ukraine, it's weakening and destroying Ukraine. Should the Enemy Be Opposed? We do, but not by completely eliminating the rights of Ukrainian citizens. This helps the aggressor, not lowering him, but helping him. And tell me, please, did anyone in this session room today hear at least one of the leaders of the force forces that they plan to do in 30 days to resist the aggressor? In particular, what steps will an aggressor take in 30 days or 60 days to get out of Ukraine? In order to resell Donbas in order to return Crimea to return those two million Ukrainians who have lost their homes and are internal refugees. What should be done in this regard? Unfortunately, we didn't hear that. Today I read carefully the three presidents I have here: President Krawchuk, President Kuchma and President Yushchenk. What do they write in their address? They call on Parliament not to allow citizens of Ukraine to be restricted to free housing, work, freedom of movement, freedom of thought and speech. This is what the conquests of Ukraine are, and this is the only one we can really fight effectively against an aggressor. And we, as the Fatherland faction, believe that today we have to turn, and that is, to the countries, to guarantee the Budapest Memorandum that they will guarantee us what they promised us. And they guaranteed the territorial integrity, security and independence of Ukraine when we gave up the third power of nuclear power. That's what we have to do today! That's why we have to vote in this room for this address that the Fatherland has proposed. And then, with the support of NATO countries, our guarantee of the Budapest Memorandum, we can really resist the aggressor. And that's what we call it. And the state of war is yes, we vote, but we defend the rights of every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian who has the right to live in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u82	Please, Natala Wesselova gives the word Rephat Chubarov. Please, Mr. Refate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u83	Dear leader, colleagues, dear Ukrainian people, citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities! The armed attack and the violent capture of the Ukrainian vessels of Berdjansk, Nikopol, Jani Kappu, the discovery of a shooting at the injury and injury of Ukrainian sailors is not only a front-line act of Russian aggression against Ukraine, but a testimony to Russia's further planned actions to destroy Ukrainian statehood, which was launched by the Russian Armed Forces' invasion of Crimea, occupation and illegal annexation of the peninsula in February-March 2014. Some may not yet fully realize it, but it is the actions of today’s generation of Ukraine that depend on the preservation of Ukraine as an independent state, which has been elected for centuries by the Ukrainian nation, for which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of the better sons and daughters of Ukraine have given their lives. The Ukrainian people are aware of their responsibility. Thus, tens of thousands of his sons and daughters, people of different nationalities, are now on land and at sea facing the pressure of a Russian aggressor. If, do not give the Most High, we, the Ukrainian national deputies, cannot meet the expectations and demands of the Ukrainian society, the people will sweep us to the brink of history and will never forgive us our descendants for not being able to save Ukraine with all its lands, including Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimea. Dear colleagues, but the introduction of martial law alone is not enough. As soon as possible, the PNDP should approve a progressive plan of action aimed not only at Russia’s new aggressive actions but also at contributing to the depopulation of Crimea and other temporarily occupied territories. The Ukrainian government should immediately submit to the Supreme Council a draft law repealing the free economic zone of Crimea. In this single formula of our interaction with international partners, our position on all international venues should be one formula: the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity in its internationally recognized borders, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Russia's new act of aggression must really turn into the beginning of the Crimea. Regrettably delayed amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the status of Crimea. Yes, under martial law it is forbidden to change the Constitution, but this does not prevent us from gathering the Constitutional Commission in the near future and approving the changes and additions that have been made. They will be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u84	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u85	As soon as the state of war is over. We have to do this because the struggle for the Azov Sea is primarily the fight for the liberation of Crimea, the Black Sea, the fate of the Crimean Tatar people and the Ukrainians who are waiting for Ukraine in the temporarily occupied Crimea. [[Congrats]] I call upon all of you, colleagues, to support the approval of the Ukrainian Act approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Refate. And the word is now given to Andrew Illenko. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u87	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I would like to remind all Ukrainians that Freedom demanded the introduction of martial law in February 2014, after Russia started the annexation of Crimea. We demanded martial law after Ilovysk. We demanded martial law after Debaltz. The fifth year is the Russian aggression, the war is going on, more than 10,000 Ukrainians have already died in this war, and the authorities have been ignoring us all this time, saying that we are provokers, which is not in time, that it will only harm us. Just before the election, they mentioned it. But at the same time, we require more than just pre-election technologies. The state of war should not become the pre-election technology of power. The state of war must be a real mechanism to fight the aggressor. Break up diplomatic relations with Russia immediately! Block the border! Stop trading with the Russian Federation. Ask a question and finally start a real fight with the five-column Kremlin, including this sitting room. These are the steps that call for "Freedom, here are the real steps in the fight against Moscow aggression." You know, today, there's this debate in society when it's on the table, an extremely important question with one simple reason -- there's no trust in power today, no trust in President Dustenk personally. And so this crisis of trust in power, it is now essentially a threat to the national security of the country. We need to correct this immediately, especially in the elections that are due to take place. March 31st must be the first round of presidential elections, there can never be any postponement of that date. Most important, and most importantly, society, today we must realize that if there is war and there is war, there should be war. But once again, it has to be real steps to overcome aggression, it has to be a real battle against the Kremlin influence, it has to be a real struggle for the liberation of our territories and the liberation of our sailors who are now in enemy captivity. It's also one of our top priorities today, everything needs to be done today. And we need to realize that only the right national measures will help Ukraine today. God save Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u88	People’s MP Spiowakovsky is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, dear friends, dear people of Ukraine! I usually talk about education from this rostrum, because I view education as a security factor, as the future of our state. But why did I ask for the word today? It's very simple. What happened? What happened? It wasn't just a ram under the uncensored swearing of the Russians, it wasn't just the use of weapons, it was first of all a test of whether the Ukrainian elites were able to find a consolidated -- I emphasize -- a consolidated answer. Not every faction alone, not the President, not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine – but whether we are all capable together, representing the interests of the people of Ukraine, which today has a great threat, because, dear colleagues, remember the history of Ukraine when some or other elites said that they are not doing so because we are with you. Our discussion today showed that, first of all, we were discussing the question of what political power would have any advantages in voting. Dear colleagues, today the question is whether Ukraine will be the only state or whether it is. For listen also to Russian ideologists, they say: There is no Ukraine as a state. Because political elites cannot agree, they cannot find a consolidated solution. Dear colleagues, I ask you to understand that we are facing a historic decision: whether we will ensure Ukraine's continued existence; whether we will ensure the peaceful life of Ukrainians with you, because they chose us with you, they said, "We trust you to make these decisions there in the Supreme Council." See what is written in social networks: people who can never agree are sitting here because they are looking for one another’s advantages, one or the other. Dear colleagues, Oleg Valeriovich, please, please, Self-Help, please, Fatherhood, please, please, the People's Front, the Peter Prashenka Block, forget, forget about the things that separate us and remember that we are united by the interests of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state, which must exist not for 27 years, but for a millennium. For that, for the sake of our children, for the future of Ukraine, let us vote with you. I am sure that no one in Ukraine exists who would take over and become a tyrant. So I understand that we must defeat the dragon without becoming this dragon ourselves. And we'll be able to provide that along with you. Trust and trust alone can unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u90	Thank you. Don't scream, please. Now is the presentation by the national deputy Yuri Solovia. No one mentioned, thank God, in a negative context. Thank you for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u91	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, Pocust, strike group. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you a story. In London, in front of the British Parliament, monuments are the largest and most prominent political figures in British history. But Churchill’s monument is the first. But it's not a monument to Churchill, it's a monument to London's parliamentaryism in the 41st and 45th years. Please tell me, I am addressing everyone here sitting in the hall, would each of you like to see a monument like this and Ukrainian parliamentary? Will it stand? I seriously doubt it. I listened carefully to the questions that have been raised today and to the speeches of the national deputies. So, the question was, when are the presidential elections going to be? The question was whether they would limit the media or limit rights and freedoms? Tell me, did anyone ask you once, and what are the names of those guys who are unfortunately in the captivity of the Russian Federation today? [[Applause]] What's their fate, these guys? Dear colleagues, you've named the name Prašenko 100 times, forgetting to call it the President, but you've never called the name Putin from this rostrum! People are good, not once! [[Applause]] Not once! This is a sentence of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and a sentence of Ukrainian political elite! Do you know when we will defeat Russia? Only on one condition: when this Parliament comes here, people will come who will put their interests first. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When this Parliament comes to interest. people who would put national interest first of all in their personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u92	The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u93	I also want to start with this three-name performance: Basil Soroka, 91st birthday. Artemenko Andrew, '94. Ader Andrey, 99th birthday. Today, Andrew's father wrote in Facebook, "I'm proud of my son." We're all proud of these guys who young, young, fought against a Russian aggressor. [[Applause]] And they're good! And today, when three hours of faction leaders chanted and shouted in the cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, do you think they called these names? No, they said: elections, elections, elections. And at that time, there was a meeting of the UN Security Council in New York, and the only person who talked about elections, elections, elections, is a representative of Russia in the UN. He spoke of the prospect of elections in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] So here's what we want to say to Moscow: elections in Ukraine will be made by the Ukrainian people, not Moscow, and only they will be made. We've just been told by those people who were filming videos on Longshank's film studio, the way they were fishing for Siseras, you know, they're not like Dusty. They did not mention the path in their speeches. We had other people here singing that we didn't vote in the 14th year on the introduction of military status, military status. Thus, the transcript of the Security and Defence Council indicates that only the Turkov voted for it. Others did not even let go of the doves of peace. [[B in m in s a l in]] Notice how they are now interrupting the deputy head of the Supreme Council, when the truth is around the eyes, when I'm talking about the truth that these politicians are now repeating a hundred-year story here, when because of the scandals, because of the scandals, he's just calling me an uncensored word, here's this bastard from the front row, because I'm telling them the truth that they want to lose the state now. We won't give it to them! I'm not a chair. You're the chair. Putin's mat. And I'm asking the men in this room right now to tell him that I'm telling the truth! And now we are voting not just for the state of war, but for the elections in Ukraine on March 31st. They will be led by Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people, and they will choose not only the President, but also the Supreme Commander of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u94	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. There will be a speech by the Prime Minister and then by the President of Ukraine. But before that, let me tell you a few words, colleagues. Since I was 14 years old, I've been a constant supporter of martial law, and this position of mine has been constant before.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u95	You know, you can't say "grandmother" and you can say "belonging" to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I demand that Vlasenko get out of the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u96	Calm down, fellows! So, colleagues, I've always been a supporter of martial law. But I'm surprised by the politicians who for years called for martial law, and when the President went into martial law, they began to find 100 reasons not to introduce martial law. It's a double standard, it's not politics, it's colleagues. We need to understand where our enemy is today. Today our enemy is in Moscow, this is the Kremlin, who wants to balance us here today, so that we don't have a unity here that wants to destroy our church today. And by the way, I'd like to officially announce that whatever decision we make, it won't interfere with our decision to create a local Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And I urge the Space Patriarch to support this idea. And we guarantee safety and security. And I want to say, colleagues, it is unacceptable, unacceptable, when in public discussion, you address the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko, with such words. I think you should apologize. Apologize to everyone! Because no one called Putin a bad word here today, but there were a lot of bad words for the President and for Heratchenko. And for Putin, there was no bad word, the one who kills our children, the one who kills our people. So, colleagues, I want to emphasize that we found compromises. I would like to inform you that after we vote in favour of the state of war, we will vote on the electoral order of March 31st by the authorship of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Are we all going to support her? We'll support it. We'll film any intrigue. In the law, we're going to reduce the number to 30 days. And that's why, colleagues, all the conflicts we've taken away. I'm asking you not to do any intrigue. I now invite the Prime Minister, then the President of Ukraine, and we will proceed to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear Irina Volodymyrna, Oksana Ivanovna! Dear colleagues! In the history of any state, there is a very responsible moment, and I'm in the government's bed looking at one of the most difficult and important issues. The real question is how to ensure stability in the country and how to make the necessary decisions to protect our sovereign state. And I'm, frankly, looking at this room, as millions of Ukrainians are looking at, and I don't understand where all the hate inside this room is coming from. In difficult moments we need to be united, we need to find compromise and be able to protect this compromise and make the country stronger. Millions of people in the world, millions of Ukrainians saw yesterday openly cynical, aggressive, inhumane images like the Russian Federation's armed forces, criminal armed forces attacked Ukrainian fleets, Ukrainian sailors. And it's not even that terrible. We can rebuild any ship, the most valuable thing in Ukraine and the Ukrainian army, is the life and health of the Ukrainian military. We have to make decisions in this room to protect them, because they defend their state every day, they put their lives behind it, not their own personal vote, but their own lives. There's nothing more valuable. How many thousands of families in Ukraine today are suffering from this Russian cursed army?Oh, my God! And today we cannot find the strength to become the only ones, the strength to make all the necessary decisions without adhering to human rights, ensuring stability in the state! I am deeply convinced that this is our responsibility, not only as a national, but as a citizen of Ukraine. We have to get out of the country's interests. We need to understand that any decision we make affects the lives of Ukrainians. The number one priority is State security and defense. And always in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these decisions were consolidated and the army has always felt the support. And today there will be no disfellowshipping. Position number two. We need to maintain stability in our country. Last week we approved the budget with you as a guarantee of stability for the end of this year and the 19th. We have to do everything we can to ensure economic growth, to ensure stability in the state and to enable people to live in our state as quality as possible. It is not easy, but it is up to us. Now with regard to the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Such a discussion was held yesterday on the National Security and Defence Council. The President made it absolutely clear that there will be no restrictions on human rights and freedoms. And I believe the President's words. And I'm stressing what I started with. The President's words must be fully consistent with your decision. So please find a consolidated solution, make them in this room, and the Ukrainian government will make every decision that is made. Colleagues, I don't see any reason for the economic crisis today. What's more, I want to emphasize that we have every opportunity with you to ensure stability, and in the economy, shops, airports, railways, roads, everything will be perfectly normal. But what I'm stressing is that for us, it's important to consolidate in the difficult historical moments of our nation. And I want to say one more thing. No one has the right, no one has the right to treat a national MP with contempt. I don't know, maybe it's wrong, but it's wrong for a woman. And I think that everyone, every real man, should apologize to the woman he insulted. And to the end. My colleagues, please, look, you don't interrupt me, I understand everything, I respect you all, and I think there are unacceptable standards of communication. And I think, first of all, we should always respect the Ukrainian citizen. And to the end. May our enemy become weaker than these situations. Let's get out of this situation a stronger, larger Ukrainian independent, strong state, and that's in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ukraine’s President, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the extraordinary plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask you to invite Peter Alexiovich to the hall. [[Applause]] I invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u99	Dear Ukrainian people, dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished Ukrainian government, distinguished national MPs! We agreed at four o'clock today to gather together to talk together, to get full information about what was happening and what was happening right now on the front, at sea, along the borders of Ukraine, what forces are now concentrated and what a threat our country is facing today. And as President, as the Supreme Commander, who has full information on the risks and threats of the state, after a terrible act of Russian aggression against the Ukrainian Armed Forces ships, which have been fully demonstrated and are now represented in all countries and capitals of the world, there have been meetings of the Security Council of the United Nations, two projects have been implemented, Russian and thesis that Ukraine seems to have violated the Russian border. You know how he was considered in New York? They refused to consider it because no one believed in Russia. [[Applause]] And this is the fruit of our work to create a world coalition to support Ukraine. And Ukraine submitted its project, which was supported by an absolute majority of votes. Today in Brussels, NATO headquarters decided to hold a special commission of Ukraine-NATO, after the world saw that it had taken place on November 25th, starting 7 a.m., especially when our intelligence presented convincing evidence of what was at risk. At what risk were the Ukrainian military, how they opened fire, how our ships beat, and how they behaved in dignity, our sailors. There is a clear record of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine on the Azov Sea. What did Putin expect? [[Noise Nodes]] These are the exclamation points. Putin looked forward to the return of Tskhinval to such calls, so that we could repeat the fate of Georgia, so that we could ensure the bloodshed of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, in order to lose the support of the whole world and instead stay alone with our problems. Ukraine went a completely different way. For four and a half years, the Ukrainian soldier and the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian citizen taxpayer, the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian President are doing their best to protect the country. And now. Shut up. And now. [[Applause]] Thank you. And now that we need unification more than ever, and now that we need it. Can we please not be in Parliament at least?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u100	Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u101	You have this culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u102	Please behave yourself during the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u103	I hope it's not Self-Help. Then I beg your pardon. And now that we need to unite our efforts, when we need to make a dual decision on the declaration of a state of war, which, I would like to stress separately, will be applied exclusively in the event of groundbreaking Russian military aggression. If, God forbid, we can work together to avoid this scenario, I emphasize as President and as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine: there will be no limitation of rights, there will be no restriction of freedoms. It's in terms. And in my edict, I asked the President, once the Russian soldier crosses the border, I will not lose a second to ensure the protection of Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] And besides, I'm making an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm making an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u104	Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u105	Friends, there's an attempt to turn the Supreme Council meetings into clowns. We're not going to let that happen, because a very serious question is now on the agenda, and you're going to have to make an overly responsible decision when you vote. First position. I've introduced a new draft decree in which the duration of the state of war will be reduced to 30 days. We have made this decree today, registered in the Supreme Council, officially. Officially filed for replacement, and now, when you announce your election as Head of the Supreme Council, you will vote for it. Second position. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to listen very carefully. Second position. Second position. The draft law that approves this decree is provided for in the conclusions of the discussion of the implementation of the state of war only in areas along the Russian border along the Transnistrian region of the Ukrainian-Moldov border and along the coast of the Black and Azov Seas. It's where you might get hit. For the transcript, I want to read a list of these areas that I'm clearly stressing. This is Winnicka, Luganska, Mikolaiyivska, Odessa, Sumska, Kharkivska, as well as Chernigivska, Hersonska and internal waters of the Azo-Kerchena Aquatoria. [[B in m in s a l in]] I emphasize that the individual situation will be introduced only in the case of a ground operation of the regular forces of the Russian Federation outside the United Nations operation and outside the illegally annexed Crimea. I would like to take an extremely responsible view of this vote right now. I fully support and support what the Prime Minister has said about the nature of the discussion on the National Security and Defence Council. And I'd like to ask you right now. And I'd like to put the situation, put it to a vote right now, not turn it into a clown. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u106	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask everyone, Oleg Valeriyovich, to prepare for the vote. I emphasize that I will put to the vote with those amendments that the President of Ukraine has agreed on under the transcript. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to vote with care. I am voting, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law, I am voting on the Ukrainian Act approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the conduct of military status in Ukraine (9338, worked out) with those rights which were handed down by the President of Ukraine under the transcript, that is 30 days and a list of exclusive areas. Areas: Vinnicka, Luganska, Mikolaiivska, Odessa, Sumska, Kharkivska, Chernigivska, Donetsk, Zaporziska, Hersonska. That is, those areas that border with the Russian Federation or with Transnistria. These two proposals, we have the right to make this right and we bring it in. Colleagues, I ask you all to vote responsibly. We've demanded years of martial law, we have a chance to show that we can give back to the aggressor and we can mobilize, all patriotic forces, all patriots. I ask you to support this proposal, please vote on technical law. State Patriots, please support. Vote. Vote. 9338 with President's rights, with technical legal rights. Keep it up, fellows. Support me. Vote. Vote. [[21:32:36]] For 276 The law has been passed and I will sign it immediately. So, colleagues, I would like to report that during the plenary session only once can you take a break. Two factions have already taken a break, and two factions are now requesting a break, but not a real break, but just an opening from the rostrum. Everyone, please be seated. Colleagues, I think some people should apologize before we continue the discussion. I think we should apologize, Sergei. I think so, Sergei. You have to apologize and have the manly courage to do so, just the manly courage. Now I'm announcing a performance by two factions, "Peter Dusty Block" and "The People's Front." From two factions. Two factions call it a break. But instead of a break, it's a performance. And I invite you to speak to the head of the "Peter Prashenko" faction, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! There's a lot of emotion going on in this room, and in this room, we make huge decisions, but there's a limit to everything. And when, I'm sorry, the national deputies of certain factions insult the First Vice-Speaker personally, we think it's an unworthy behavior, and such a person has no right to be in the House of Parliament. So first, we're going to the regulatory committee, and, Andriy Volodymyrovich, we're asking you to give a mandate, make a decision not to have this person in Parliament for a certain number of meetings, as stipulated in the Rules. One. The second question. Until we hear a public apology from Irina Heraszczenko of Sergey Vlasenka, the faction of "Peter Dustenka's Block" in this room today will not vote for anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u108	One minute, Sergey Vlasenko. Attention! One minute, Sergey Vlasenko. Attention! One minute, Sergey Vlasenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking for peace. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! I agree that the form was unacceptable. The form was unacceptable, for which I apologize to the First Vice Speaker. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have 29 seconds to stand by the rostrum. Can I do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u110	So I'm going to ask you if you'll excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u111	I'm a wise woman, and I accept these excuses publicly, and I wish you, Sergio, that you have a good time with women. If you behave differently, so will you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u112	Colleagues continue and continue, sometimes we get emotional. I'm asking you, whatever your emotions are, don't let that happen. Never let go, never let go. And, colleagues, this allows us to move on to the draft Order for the appointment of President of Ukraine's election on Sunday, March 31st, 19th. The decision is given to you. The decision was taken by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, to remove any intrigue, insinuation around the issue. I ask for the first vote, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be in the hall. For short! Please be supportive. [[21:37:32]] For 229 Vote. Decision taken. Colleagues, my report will be one minute, and we're voting. Everyone in the room, please. So I propose, according to the Constitution, the draft decree proposes to appoint the President of Ukraine's next election on Sunday, March 31, 2019. Please be supportive. Please vote. I'm asking you to support the Order on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election on Sunday, March 31st, 19th. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[21:38:16]] For 298 298. We made a decision, colleagues. We have one more question. The appeal is colleagues, attention! – address. We have a decision, a decision taken in general is 298, and any intrigue with the election is taken. But we do have another question, colleagues, that is a reference to international organizations: the United Nations, the European Parliament. By the way, tomorrow I'm going to meet the head of the European Parliament and the NATO Hensek, let's take this address together. And, colleagues, this decree is registered by a group of national deputies, and I ask that you now support the proposal to review it in a simplified manner. Please vote! Please back up! About the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote! [[21:39:10]] For 240 The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Hanna Hopko. Please elaborate on the decision itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you all for the state's decisions and the vote. And now I want to say that we have worked on this regulation to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the OSCE, the GUAM, the national parliaments of the nations of the world in connection with the act of aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. What do we want here? We are strongly protesting aggressive actions, and we demand, in particular, the Russian Federation to provide immediate medical assistance to wounded Ukrainian sailors, to ensure their immediate safe return to Ukraine. And the return of illegally captured military property. We also call on the international community to take effective measures to end Russian aggression both on land and at sea, including the application of new sanctions and the strengthening of existing sanctions, the full restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in internationally recognized borders. We invite international organizations to send observers to the Black Sea and the Azov Sea region and to the Kerchny Strait. And we suggest to the naval states to send military ships to the region to prevent further escalation of the tension from the Russian side. We also urge international partners to increase the provision of military and other assistance to Ukraine to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. We call on the international community to respond adequately to the challenges and threats posed by the Russian Federation, because the policy of retirement has already led to the occupation of part of Ukraine. We also stress that North Stream 2 is a project not for Europe's sake, but for Russia's sake, and it poses a threat, including security for the entire Baltic region and Northern Europe. We stress that impunity for aggressive politics and the actions of the RF can lead to global consequences. It is we who place full responsibility on the Kremlin regime for the escalation of tension in the Azov and Black Sea regions and in the Kerchen Strait, which is the continuation of the armed occupation of Crimea and the separate regions of Donetsk and Lugansk. It is we who place our responsibility on Russia for undermining the peaceful settlement of the situation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-26-m0.u114	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. The decision is given to you. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. This is a symbolic action, but the important action of the Ukrainian Parliament is to turn to international institutions. A lot of institutions have already accepted their references, and unfortunately, we didn't do it until 9 p.m. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We lose votes, we lose votes. I ask, and I put to the vote the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Organization of the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM, the National Parliaments of the States of the World in connection with the next act of aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine" (No. 9341) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[21:42:47]] For 272 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! We had a very simple and difficult day. But as always, the Ukrainian Parliament has made positive decisions, fundamental decisions for the Ukrainian State. I want everyone to welcome these decisions. The Oli Mantis card didn't work. And I'm going to read that under Law 9338 (worked), her card didn't work. And, colleagues, I welcome you all with an important state decision. I want to say hello to all of us. To this day, we have become even stronger and more powerful. Thank you to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine for participating in our meeting and for making a single joint decision. Glory to Ukraine! The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Our next plenary session will take place next Tuesday at 10 a.m.
