ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u1	Good morning. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, get ready for registration. You're ready, aren't you? So please register and register for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:39]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. I remind you, not the factions, but the deputies, and therefore all the national deputies who intend to take part in the discussion, please record the performance. Please sign up. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich. Suggests a word for the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u3	Alexia Hotcharyenka. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u4	Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, as you know, last week Putin and the government of the Russian Federation imposed sanctions against 68 Ukrainian and 322 Ukrainian citizens, including more than 120 Ukrainian national deputies. There are representatives of various factions, mostly 44 people's deputies, from the Peter Prashenko faction. We've decided how the people's MPs from BPP will respond to Mr. Putin's actions. And we want to give an answer in the old Ukrainian style that our ancestors showed us. You all know, as before, in the 18th century, the guards of one invader, at the time of the sultan, answered with a well - known letter. The text is completely in order for us to respond to Putin today. And so, our answer as the deputies on whom the Russian Federation and Mr. Putin have been sanctioned: "Lord Putin. November 7, 2018, by Christ’s Christmas. You, the president, are a fucking Moscow brother and a goddamn comrade, Lucifer's own secretary! What the hell kind of knight are you if you don't kill a hedgehog with your bare back? You won't have Ukrainian sons of bitches under you, you son of a bitch! We're not afraid of your army. Earth and water will fight you. That's what the Ukrainian people have said to you, you scoundrel! You and the pigs of the Christian congregation will not be ensnared. Now we're done because we know the number and we have the calendar. The moon is in the sky, the year is in the book, and the day is in us, just like you. For that, kiss our ass." And the national deputies who signed: Honcharenko, Sevrukov, Barna, Onufrik, Spiowakovsky, Sverk, Chubarov, Artushenko, Timish. Dear colleagues who want to join, who have been sanctioned, join in signing this letter, please join us, send our answer, Cossack, Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u5	Glory to Ukraine! And death to the Mosquitos!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u6	Kupry Vitaly Mikolayovich. Please, Mr. Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u7	Vitaly Cupray, non-factional. Colleagues, today I wanted to talk about the pain, about us with you, about our Parliament. You know, I'm looking at all of this happening, and I think that we are now one of the worst parliaments in the history of Ukraine. Why do I say that? Once, in March 2015, when it was clear that the Coalition Treaty was not going to be implemented, when it was seen that our nation was going to usurp the power of Prashenkom, I made a decision: I'm leaving the faction of BPP, I'm going to dedicate my life to having a new, updated, patriotic, honest parliament. Unfortunately, my calls to colleagues when they joined the coalition -- Self-help, Fatherhood, the Radical Party -- remained unheard of. For months, even years, this determination of circumstances, the determination of its relationship with the President, and only then did these certain parties come out of the coalition. But what happens now? We see a lot of bad things in Parliament right now: buttoning is booming. We can see that there is a fountain of blasphemy, lying under patriotic slogans. We see that the Rules are constantly being violated, and that is the law. But everyone seems to be criticizing active authority, but they're doing quite different things. Well, tell me, there's politicians coming in here saying we're not voting for this law under any circumstances, for the budget, for anything. Then they go to the towers, I don't know if they're going to the bank or where they're changing their minds because they've been promised privileges or money. We can see that. Why did Julia Timoshenko say yesterday, and the post said she wouldn't vote for any bill until a decision was made, a regulation to cancel the gas price hike? Well, you know, me, it's a very big problem for me personally. Maybe I'm a political romantic, maybe I'm asking too much of our politicians, but I think we should, you know, stick to the truth, promise and keep. And that's why, by the way, I decided to fly to the Presidents of Ukraine to create my own political power and to show a new level in Parliament, what it should be. I think we're going to get to that point right away and we're going to have a better Parliament, unfortunately, that's not going to happen very soon, more than a year from now. But I think that each of the politicians has to draw conclusions and not promise what they can't do, because it's a discreditation of the government. And the claims are then presented to everyone, because we are all MPs, we are all members of this Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u8	Irina Frez gives the speech to the Chicken. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I have very important information. Yesterday, the committee recommended that Parliament finally adopt amendments to the Tax and Customs Codes to create accessible conditions for clearing cars on Euroregistration. Under the walls of the Supreme Council today, drivers of unspoiled means of transport continue to huddle. They require us to take concrete steps to solve our problem, which has already reached a national scale. During this part - time calendar year, more than half a million cars were taken to Ukraine without blurring, that is, every minute a car enters the territory of our country. It is not possible to install a driver, owner, and assess the technical condition of such a car. Drivers want to protect their property rights for the purchase of cars in the EU, pay the price available and continue to use transport with a clear conscience. What was the result of the second reading? First of all, the base rate for a car with a petrol engine of up to 3 liters is 50 euros, and more than 3 liters [3 liters] of engine volume is 100 euros. The price of a diesel car with a similar engine volume is 75 euros and 150 euros respectively. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, high taxes on imports of older cars over the age of 15 may be abolished. Now it's proposed, the maximum age ratio is going to be 15. This is a major step toward meeting drivers. Because it should be recalled that by 2008, it had been forbidden to import cars over 8 years of age. Moreover, we provide motivation and incentives to speed up the solution. In fact, in the first month after the publication of the approved laws, the car could be blurry 50 percent cheaper, and the month could be reduced to 0.75. So far, consultations have been concluded with fiscal and customs authorities, who have stated that they are fully prepared to handle a substantial number of citizens’ appeals to clear up these cars. It should be noted that, at the suggestion of the committee, all payments for cleaning cars imported since 2015 will be directed to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. That'll be fair, all the costs of clearing cars will go to pension payments and pension increases. However, the introduction of simplified and affordable conditions for clearing up transport forces us to increase the responsibility of drivers for violating the customs regime in Ukraine by increasing fines, such a problem can no longer be repeated in Ukraine. That is why, colleagues, I urge tomorrow to incorporate these two important laws into the agenda and to resolve these urgent issues definitively, to adopt changes to taxes and to the Customs Code. That's what people are waiting for, we have to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u10	Thank you. Igor Šurma. Wait a second. Pisarenko, and then Wilkul, Pisarenko, and then Wilkul. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, we're talking about tariffs again. Members of our parliamentary group have registered two decrees, each of which relates to the problem of tariffs, what people will face soon, with higher tariffs, not everyone can pay for these tariffs. But what happens this winter, I think it's going to be total terror against our citizens, we suggest we go at least two ways. First. This is a decision that we have registered with us to carry out on-the-spot tariff audits and to see where we can still bring them to a normal level, taking into account both the real cost, and to see that no revenue is made for companies that want to get rich today at tariffs and at higher prices for gas. The other one. We still suggest that we consider the use of the gas of our own production, and accordingly we will be able to get to the normal level of tariffs. We have registered the appropriate regulation that we offer to use our own gas for the needs of the population. This is what all the leaders have been talking about, probably the factions of these last years, probably the time to do so. If we vote on our decision, the next time we vote on it. The Cabinet of Ministers will be obliged to carry out appropriate calculations and move on to such a model. In doing so, we propose until such a calculation is made and we move on to such a system, to set a moratorium on tariff increases accordingly. Because probably everybody's wondering why next year, for Naftogazu, the profits are already going to be over 100 billion dollars, and all people are going to pay higher tariffs. In doing so, we propose to make a single day where we can look at all the initiatives, all the factions about tariffs and the price of gas. I don't think we need to run away from that question and give an answer to how each faction, each of the leaders and thought, each candidate in the presidents sees the solution. It seems to us that there are enough ideas now that we can talk about here and make a decision that would relieve social tension and show people that Parliament really wants to solve this problem. Because in another case, this winter we will see even more paylessness and even greater poverty in our country. Thank you. I hope that Parliament will support it, and we will make a day that is devoted solely to raising tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Igor Šurma gives the word for Villukul, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u13	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The state’s tension over the fact that the authorities are actually destroying their own citizens is becoming critical. I feel obliged to be a citizen, as a national MP, to do everything I can to stop the economic repression of power in relation to my own people. First, I demand that the Supreme Council oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to review and cancel the decision to increase the price of gas, we have already made a decision. There is already a decision by a large number of local councils to cancel the increase in gas prices. People’s deputies should listen to the thoughts of deputies from villages, cities, districts, and areas, where they know what people are living like. Secondly, I demand that the head of NAC Naftogaz come immediately to Parliament with a report. I would like to remind you that Mr. NAKU's head has transferred nearly 8 million dollars there to almost a million dollars, to his relatives in America. This money he got as a prize from Naftogazu, which is a holding company. This is our money with you. Thirdly, I demand a report from the management of Crushing. It's also a company that extracts enough gas to satisfy the needs of our population and the Heatcommunerge. And we know that its worth is 2,000 dollars, and selling it to people is now going to be 8.5,000 dollars per thousand cubes. I'm addressing the President. Mr. President, find a mechanism to reverse the decision to increase the price of gas. We also tabled bills not only on lowering the price of gas, but also on banning it. As we can see, the cost of gas allows for this. Therefore, there should be no argument as to the possibility of lowering tariffs in Ukraine by populism. It's not populism, it's a completely real and effective mechanism, as can be done, it only takes political will. Naftogaz was granted the right to switch off his dwelling in the winter from debt incineration. Do you understand what this is going to be? They're going to freeze whole cities, it's actually a license to kill people. One more. It raises concerns about the coal sector. The last 33 government mines in debt, coal miners sit underground for weeks to protest. At that time, authorities are buying coal in Africa, Russia, and America. I don't think it's a patriotic position, I think it's marauder. The problem needs to be resolved systematically, and all mechanisms and methods are well - known.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u14	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u15	And the money to pay off the debt is paid out only after two weeks of people don't leave the mine. It's a disgrace! Once again, the political will of the nation’s leadership is necessary. But this authority is short - lived, and the Ukrainian people in the elections will give a worthy assessment of its achievements and send it to the graves of history.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u16	Timis Grigory gives the floor to Andrew Koth. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, Stylish, Jewish, hit group. You know, I was really excited and I think. And I'm glad, and I think it's the only one. Good. One of the most important good things we've done is decentralisation of power and that's unification. It is the creation of united territorial communities that have just given the first to grow the real decentralization of power and the real decentralization of finance. We announced the decentralization of power, and the people on the ground believed us. They believed, including me in the district. And in my district, I had the creation of the Hodorov Joint Territorial Society, which is now the largest territorial community in the Lviv region. But instead of real decentralization, we got the transfer of all the social infrastructure that's in the community without giving them the right tools to influence and finance. In addition, we've got a lot of natural monopolies that exist in our territory -- they're oblenergos and polygamys. And as a result, I'm going to give you an example that just impresses me and shocks me: And as a result, for example, School No. 1, which has an area of 3.5 thousand square meters, has one and a half kilowatts of electricity from the skynergo. School No. 2 - 4 kilowatts, school No. 3 - 1.5 kilowatts The Georgian school is 1.5 kilowatts, Borinichi and Black Islands are the same. What does that mean? This means that a boiler room for children to sit in a warm school is impossible to run, and the tannery in a racquetball way requires payment for extra kilowatts, which have only recently been artificially removed. We talk a lot about decentralization here, but I repeat, there is a real racket of private monopolies that just terrorize united territorial communities and prevent them from developing. At what cost the united territorial community should pay again under the technical conditions of the private oligartic structure of the Lviv oblenergo, headed by Mr. Matviyshin. I demand that the Attorney General's Office immediately accept this from the BSC (please consider it an official request) To find out, to admit the guilty, which is why the power limits have been cut off, and as a result -- think about it -- children will freeze to death. They are mistreated, not by humans, but by children. They abuse children at a time when we declare success in our economy. I think that everyone's guilty should be punished, and I think it's just the discrediting of the President's name in general, the discrediting of the entire course of state, which is defined for the decentralization of power. And I think all the appropriate conclusions should be made so that this can be stopped as soon as possible. I think that just in decentralization, real decentralization, is not virtual.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u19	And I think that only real decentralization has the success of Ukraine, not virtual decentralization, but real decentralization, really giving power to places. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u20	Shepherd Taras Timothyovich Gives the floor to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u21	Just now, the vice president's deputy major described how people are being robbed. They steal, and people have to pay for it, and they're fools. They're robbing through tariffs, getting into people's pockets, and they're stealing through Rotterdam Plus, Düsseldorf Plus, and they're releasing Ukrainian gas into the air, not wanting to pay rents, especially in Borislav's Skrnafta. Just into the air of hundreds of thousands of cubic meters of gas per day. They're going to get into people's pockets tomorrow because they're taxing cars on foreign registrations because they're going to introduce a scheme that steals money from people's pockets and they're going to give it to the Pension Fund that they robbed. And they also steal through monopolies. Just as the national deputy Keith described how the archenegro does so, so do the deceptions. We passed the Law on the Market in Gas. And independent companies started bidding to offer their lower price, and they're going to win these tenders, but they're going to put it in court and block it. And just as schools are going to run out of light, so schools and cities are running out of gas because of the fact that the system under the control of the current authority is robbing people. They're robbing people through the cities. If one of the cities in eastern Ukraine, the big city this year has a development budget of 1 billion 200 and the last city of 2 billion, the next year only half of the development budget. What are they going to do about it? Do you know why? Because in some cities 20, 30, 56 percent of the underfunding of educational medical subsidies translated into cities. There is no compensation for the difference in tariffs, no compensation for excise duty on the retail trade in fuel materials, but illegal fillings are growing around the cities. What, then, do our law enforcement agencies do to whom they serve? Where do they get this? It's not a defamation of power -- it's power that's coming into people's pockets today just to cover up what they've robbed the Ukrainian state budget. And this is a serious message for people. But the authorities can also correct this, if they remember, in the budget they will accept. It's shameful and humiliating in terms of Ukrainian people and it's an open-minded Renaissance policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u22	Thank you. The river Andriy Alexanderovich. Gives the word Kodoli for the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u23	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, it has been a month since the outbreaks of ammunition occurred in the territory of military arsenal No. 6 in my constituency. And it seems that this month everyone has forgotten about this tragedy. But for those who live with broken windows, with broken walls and chairs in their homes, this horror still persists. And there's more than a thousand of them. And how many of those who have lost their heads completely, and these people are living practically alone with their misery and have not yet received support from the state. This parachute, I want to show everyone, was handed over to me by the people of the village of Augustinek, who suffered the most from this tragedy, both as a reminder and as a Supreme Council, and above all to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of Defense, that people are still waiting for help. And these shells from every yard were carried 30, 50 grand each. The village of Agustivka and the military town of Friendship were the most affected, which was hit by this terrible tragedy. Regrettably, all the inhabitants of these populated areas experienced the devastating effects. Some houses have been destroyed and are completely unfit for recovery. The local authorities have done their utmost today to provide emergency assistance, to conduct appropriate tests, to determine the necessary amounts to eliminate the consequences of the emergency, to transfer these documents to Kabmin, but the towing has already begun. For two weeks now, the documents have been in various ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice, and so far no decision has been made to compensate them. The restoration of a school in the death of the Friendship, where more than 140 children are taught, is now forced to take part in a temporary study in the city of Ichnia. These needs require 2.5 million dollars to rebuild the school. Work is already under way, but the work is being started at the expense of the benefactors. So this is just as important a question that I am addressing today, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers: to allocate funds immediately for these needs. In particular, I would like to point out the situation in the military town of Friendship, since 27 multi-story apartment buildings plus kindergarten are on the balance of the military, this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. Regrettably, even in the middle of these apartment buildings, there has not yet been a survey. If there is a replacement of the windows and a replacement of the roof, inside the houses people live with damaged walls and damaged chairs. So today, I want to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Secretary of Defense, to take immediate action so that people can get back to normal life. To do that, we need to start work to restore life, to finance it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u24	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u25	People are waiting for the winter to come, and today the authorities must respond immediately to this terrible situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u26	Thank you. One is invited to the floor by Ednak Ostap Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished viewers. If we keep talking about gas from day to day, today I'm also going to register a decree, a draft government banning the regulation of gas prices. The decision to oblige the government to secure market prices for natural gas is because the government must take on social protection for those who cannot pay high tariffs on gas. The government should help energy efficiency in Ukraine, the government should contribute to increasing its own gas production, but the government should not promote corruption in non-market government regulation of gas prices. And so my answer to the populists, who unfortunately registered the decree, six large MP factions of populists, about canceling the gas price rise. I ask Andrija Volodymyrovich to consider, along with that decision, my Order on Market Prices for Gas. Regarding yesterday’s discussions and debates on the TSC. Unfortunately, I was unable to read Oleg Mikhailik’s question to the Attorney General, who was tried more than a month ago. The question actually is, "Who ordered me and why not detained performers, real performers?".. In Odessa, everyone knows the affair where people were taken from apartments on the Gagarin Plaza and the Golden Coast CD. I've highlighted this problem, and this is one of the versions of the assassination. Why does no one do anything about it? No one was even questioned. And these are questions for victims of attacks on activists, dozens of questions to law enforcement agencies that they don't get an answer to. There are resonant cases, and there are less resonant cases that are not investigated. And, dear colleagues, very rightly yesterday we did what we voted in favour of creating a TSC, because this recognition of a problem that exists in society is not an attempt to discredit the law enforcement organs, it's an attempt to increase their effectiveness, accountability, because parliamentary control of the law enforcement system works in developed democracies. It is a shame, of course, that in Ukraine we have not succeeded in creating an effective Law on Temporary Commissions. But we've studied Sweden's experience, and every 10 to 20 years, there's a regular scandal in law enforcement when they're doing either illegal listening or illegal investigation, and Parliament's responding to resonance issues, and it's monitoring accountability, transparency of the law enforcement system and thus increasing its effectiveness. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge you to work effectively on a newly created interim commission of inquiry, and to this call on Parliament this is an obligation to adopt an effective law on temporary commissions of inquiry and to improve parliamentary control of the security sector and the law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u28	Thank you. And a closing statement. The festivities pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u29	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I ask you very much, as you are forbidden to cry here, forbid the use of the chair of the head of the Supreme Council for any flash mob. I believe that this morning the status of the chair was abandoned throughout Ukraine. What happened? A group of national deputies took their hats up and made a flash mob, another flashmobe, today without printed T-shirts, to get drunk again. Pear, pierre, pierre, and pierre. I'd like to go back to history. The letter of Cossack Sirk to the Turkish sultan was not known until Javornick, a historian, communicated with Ripin. Then he wrote two versions of this painting. One is in the Kharkiv Art Museum and the other is in Petersburg. It's a world piece. And what happened today is just pretending to be about Ripin's work. I'd like to go to those people and tell them. And where are you wise enough to create an orgcommittee today after the celebration of Ripin 175 years, to allocate money to culture, to restore a painting that needs constant care? You don't have it. And more than that, I have to tell you, what people are saying today (here I am going out to people, and they're telling me) that the embroidery and the Cossack system would look like you, looks like Stepan Bandera entered the synagogue in a yarmola. You're here from the Supreme Council's rostrum and you're advertising your flash drive. I wanted to tell you that this situation is repeated, and it's humiliating Parliament. You see what was written in this text. Well, by the way, he deserves your respect. You asked a man from abroad to kiss him in an intimate place. Did you change your mind and ask me to do that, that favor? This deserves help. Therefore, it is understandable why you are voting for the legalization of the Geiparades and everything that will humiliate Ukraine. I want you to know that today, the Opposition Block has not accepted, is not taking part in any pyar-actions. Why? Because every pyar action is money, and the money you spend on posters, on all your actions, on all your T-shirts, you'd better put on a culture fund to save art. And, of course, medicine. I think it's necessary to reform medicine under the Emergency Medical Care Act. And it predicts the existence of a specialized medical staff. So I have to tell you that it's time after these flash mobs to call 103 psychiatric teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u30	Thank you. So the time for the national MPs to speak is over. I'd like to report that there's been a motion for a break from two factions: The Radical Party and Self-Help, which they agreed to switch to the tribune. And before I go into the agenda, I give the floor to Oleg Laska, the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Millions of Ukrainian citizens listen to the broadcast from the parliamentary rostrum: Someone is watching TV, grandparents in the villages sitting by the radio if the radio remains. And what do they hear from these dynamics and teletranslations? Some go out -- they do clowning, others go out -- they talk about gay parades, others talk about some stupid shit. People don't really care. If you knew how people live, you would never go out on this platform and use it for your own position, because in fact people are concerned about completely different problems. Today, children are given away to live parents because their parents do not have the money to support their children. In a child, five times a day at the expense of a government budget, the child is given five consents, and the child is placed in a warm bed and taught. And hundreds of thousands of children in Ukraine are in kindergartens and boarding schools instead of being with their families. Millions of Ukrainians have gone abroad to earn money because the authorities set up such wages as money and pensions that make it impossible to live, feed their families, and so people are forced to go abroad, earn money, and once a year see their own child or their own parents, or have a big holiday, on Christmas, or on Easter. Today's huge problem for people is that they have high gas prices. When the government, the government, raised it, set absolutely unreasonable prices for gas, citing the need to pay the European gas price. But in doing so, the Ukrainians were forgotten to pay European wages and pensions. And as a result, 50 billion dollars from Ukrainian pockets want to get the government to get rid of the budget holes at the expense of Ukrainians in order to tackle its corruption, its inability to change economic policies, its inability to create jobs for young people so that it does not go abroad, its absolute inability to bring the country in order. That's why I, our team, of other factions, registered a draft decision yesterday to cancel the government's decision to increase the prices of gas for citizens and to impose a moratorium on raising tariffs on municipal services. This is a vital issue that concerns every Ukrainian family, whether it receives subsidies or not. Because 3 million Ukrainian families today have lost the right to receive subsidies and have to remove their children from their homes who are forced to divorce because they are otherwise denied subsidies. We ask the Ukrainian Parliament to consider immediately our decision to cancel the decision to increase gas prices. Accept a moratorium on any increase in tariffs. And accept our plan to lower gas prices, raise wages and recalculate pensions. Until this decision is made, we will not vote for any other.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u32	So, colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda. And I would like to point out that the first question is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The Ways to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine" (No. 8141). And, colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:43:34]] For-93 Obviously, there is a desire for national deputies to discuss the matter thoroughly. And that's why I'm announcing the move to Project Order 8141. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear fellow MPs! In Ukraine there are many problems: in Ukraine, the war, in Ukraine reform, the government is working on the gas market, but in Ukraine there are also many thousands, tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who are suffering from probably one of the oldest and most difficult epidemics to overcome, as it turns out, is an epidemic of tuberculosis. We, together with fellow thinkers, fellow MPs, about 50 deputies, national deputies from different factions, decided not to take sides with this problem, to involve parliament, the highest legislative body in Ukraine, to solve it, and to create an interfractional merger of the Parliamentary Platform to fight tuberculosis, which, by the way, yesterday at the round table, we marked it, one year from the time it was created. Many representatives of public organizations, patient organizations, the Ministry of Health, the Center for Public Health were present at the round table. We had the opportunity to sum it up. And it is very significant that today, the next day after the round table, the first issue of the agenda is the question of voting for the Parliamentary Hearing Order. This is a very important decision because Ukraine, as the following information will show you, and I hope that you will listen to it carefully, is now entering five countries with the biggest problem, especially multi-resistant forms of tuberculosis. The problem is not solved, despite the fact that there are thousands of Phthiziat doctors working in this system, there has been adequate infrastructure in the health system for the fight against tuberculosis since Soviet times, and millions of dollars are allocated each year. So obviously, the logical conclusion is that maybe we're doing something wrong, maybe we need to change the system as a whole, and we need to change the approach according to what international organizations, such as the World Health Organization, are proposing today, to move on to what is called patient-oriented methods. And now I wanted to inform you, to brief you with this information on the state of affairs, the current situation in the system of combating tuberculosis in Ukraine. The opposition to tuberculosis in Ukraine is one of the country’s priorities in public health policy and international commitments. According to WHO experts over the past 5 years, there has been a trend in Ukraine to reduce the rate of TV sickness and TV mortality, to introduce modern methods of diagnosis, including multi-resistant tuberculosis, and to treat patients with all forms of tuberculosis, to establish a relationship between HIV and TV services, and to introduce a TV registry. Nevertheless, about 30,000 cases of tuberculosis have been reported in Ukraine every year. Thus, 34,000 88 cases were reported in 2016. The current prevalence rate for all forms of tuberculosis in 2016 is 82 per 100,000 population. Which is almost three times what the global action plan sets out to stop tuberculosis. In 2014, Ukraine entered five countries of the world with the highest burden of methyl resistant tuberculosis. So far, the context of the epidemic in Ukraine is characterized by the widespread spread of multi-resistant tuberculosis and tuberculosis with increased medical resilience. That is, treatment forms that do not have effective drugs. Compared with high mortality rates associated with multiple resistant tuberculosis and an increasing number of cases of combined or so - called co-infection, i.e. HIV, AIDS, diabetes, drug addiction, and other patients. In recent years, in a worldwide cohort, the treatment of patients with multiresistant tuberculosis in Ukraine has been one of the last. In cohort 2014, the effectiveness of treatment is 46 percent, with an average treatment efficiency of more than 75 percent according to WHO data in the European region. Particularly dangerous in this situation is the late use of tuberculosis for medical care, the timely detection of tuberculosis and combined forms of HIV/TB, which result in high mortality rates, and the lack of coverage of prevention, diagnostics and treatment of vulnerable groups of the so-called high-risk groups. It should also be noted that about 20 percent of TB cases do not occur in Ukraine. At the same time, there are practices involving public organisations, such as grants from the global AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria fund, which prove that in changing approaches to anti-tuberculosis through patient-oriented models, the effectiveness of multi-resistant tuberculosis treatment in outpatient conditions is up to 86 percent of successful treatment. The package of services listed in the above - mentioned best practice included the organization of quality, close - to - the - patient services, DOTs, which were designed to maximize preservation for the patient’s normal life - style. Among them is the supply of medicines and the control of their home or other convenient place, as well as twice a month’s supply of food kits to all patients. In addition, all patients received medical psychological and social care throughout the treatment period. By the way, it's these problems in our current treatment system, which is excessive hospitalization, when patients are actually isolated, they close for 6-8 months without access to family and without social psychological care, and you know or hear that even in simple forms, patients are forced to take pills every day, with the correspondingly terrible side effects, suffering from depression and other psychological problems. This leads to patients stopping tuberculosis, which is the cause. Stop treatment, which is actually the cause of multiple resistant forms. If we do not change the situation, according to WHO estimates, given the current rate of tuberculosis epidemic, between 2015 and 2030 there will be 87,000 800 deaths due to disease in Ukraine. The economic cost of fighting the epidemic from 2015 to 2030 will be $3.6 billion. On the basis of the above, there is an urgent need to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme "The Ways to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine". This topic requires an urgent public discussion in the form of parliamentary hearings involving experts, experts, politicians, executives, local self-government, the public, all interested parties, and recommendations on how to address the problem. And last but not least, my dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the problem is not just Ukrainian. This year and the following years in the world are crucial for determining better practices and for uniting efforts to combat tuberculosis. Unfortunately, there are 10 million new people in the world each year, 1.6 million of whom die. For this year, a number of unprecedented international measures were taken, including the United Nations summit in September, where I, along with a delegation from the Ukrainian government, had the opportunity of being present by public organizations. A political declaration was adopted, which adopted clear goals and tasks for all countries of the world in order to overcome the tuberculosis epidemic before, as noted in the United Nations, 2030, and to forget its existence. I also wanted to highlight the effectiveness and success of our IFO's "Parliamentary Platform for the Fight against Tuberculosis," which, as I mentioned earlier, included about 50 deputies, particularly Alexy Kirichenko, who is very active in all, including international action. During this year, we have also celebrated the International Day for the Fight against Tuberculosis. I would like to thank, including the speaker of the Supreme Council, who has joined, and the colleagues, the exhibition and the round table, as well as the House of Parliament. Today, together with the Ministry of Health, we are actively working on the possibility of developing and adopting a national program to combat tuberculosis. I would like to go to the Ministry of Justice to address all of these problems that remain, and we are working with the government to ensure that effective medicines are available in Ukraine to ensure that registration and import, or customs, of bedaquiline and other effective medicines for the treatment of multi-resistant tuberculosis are not on duty. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u34	Thank you. Stay, please. Mr. Sergey! Mr. Sergei, don't leave us so quickly, please. Please come to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we are fully considering the draft of this ruling. Yes. And I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, Natala Weselov, your question. He's handing the Ostap of Eden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Sergio, thank you very much for the draft of this decision. And I think that we need to mobilize in Parliament today and necessarily vote in favour of it, and in a professional way, talking in a parliamentary high court is a very important issue for society. The only one, Mr. Sergei. I have a question. What do you think when there is actually a systemic corruption opposition to medical reform in Parliament, will it be possible for Parliament to have a constructive, qualitative and professional discussion of the problem when we actually have the MPs' objectives of groups that systematically oppose medical reform and sabotage any activities of the Ministry of Health? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u36	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I still want to believe that there will be enough courage in Parliament and political will to unite around the problem of tuberculosis. It is not a political problem, it has no political color, and it cannot be divided into coalitions or opposition. I mean, all the deputies today, whether they support medical reform or they don't support medical reform, they like the current Minister of Health or don't like it, I think that's the kind of problem that should unite us. What is involved in the reform of the health system itself? In my opinion, it's important not to take any selective steps, you have to change the system in an integrated system approach. I think this can be done, and that, as I said, the following year, 2019 after the adoption of the state programme will be crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u38	Please refer the following question from our distinguished colleague Eutuska. Eutushka, here's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u39	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The fact that you're raising that question and saying that it's not alone in our country is a fact. Thank you for taking care of this. At the same time, I want to remind you that we have very serious problems with insulin and other diseases that people have to take as drugs every day. But please tell me, is there a concept that has been worked out as a result of the two round tables that you said you would write a bill that would enter the system to implement this program? And at the same time, I want to say my own opinion that people who are socially unstable, socially vulnerable to tuberculosis are suffering from this disease because what is happening today in Ukraine, with the price of gas rising, is going to lead to even more of these categories of people. So, as the Fatherland faction, we insist, we insist that the Presidium be included in the order of the day's decree, which prohibits the raising of tariffs on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u40	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Oh, you're done. Please, there was a computer failure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. First of all, what's going on with the drugs. You mentioned insulin, but the same is true of the supply and availability of effective drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis, especially its multi-resistance forms, since Ukraine belongs to five countries that have the biggest problem in this. There are two drugs that have recently been published and invented literally in the last 30 years. This is the first time in 30 years. In Ukraine, unfortunately, these companies -- one Japanese and American company -- have identified Russian distribution companies as partners. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, we have no right to buy drugs from the Russians, to spend public money on Russian companies. Appropriately, this led to delays and, according to the problem, that patients who are now on accounting, in physiatric accounting, did not have access to these drugs. Today, this problem, including thanks to us deputies, our parliamentary platform, is being solved today. That's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u42	30 seconds, please. Please, 30 seconds. You've been given an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u43	What's true about low-income people or low-income families is actually a problem. And especially these new patient-oriented treatments for tuberculosis, they also provide social support, including even the so-called mini-food rations, because it's part of the treatment. You have to be able to get enough vitamins, calories to make sure that your medicine is effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u44	One last question. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u45	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for such a meaningful report. A real problem for Ukraine. My question concerns a particular group, the categories of people affected by this disease, our situation in the penitentiary system. How does this harmonize with the fact that today TB is the highest in European prisons in the penitentiary system? Have these issues been aligned with the relevant department of profile, and how will we go out and deal with this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u46	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u47	Thank you for the very relevant and very important question. The problem in the penitentiary service is one of the sharpest. In the meantime, what. Especially in our region, in Central Asia, particularly in Azerbaijan, there are good practices recommended today by the World Health Organization to decide or build a system of prevention, detection and treatment of tuberculosis in the penitentiary system. In Azerbaijan, for example, public organizations are actively involved. He is ill, being treated in appropriate isolation facilities in the penitentiary service, when he leaves, the system does not release him because this, in fact, leads to multi-resistible forms, and he is taken over by public organizations that are already accompanying him with civilian health authorities. In Ukraine, we have a draft Law on the New Penitentiary Service in Parliament. And we are now with the Center for Public Health to raise the issue that this law will provide for appropriate changes in order for this system to work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u48	Dear colleague, thank you so much for your report. You can go back to your workplace. And I invite you to report to the head of the Health Committee, Olga the Mantis. Yes, I'm sorry, he's going to present the committee's position on the draft Order on Parliamentary Hearings on Tuberculosis in Ukraine as a representative of the committee, member of the Irina Sisoyenko Committee. Please, Your Honor, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u49	Irina Sisoyenko, Deputy Head of the Health Committee, Self-Help Unit. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care reviewed the initiative of the authors of the 8141 draft resolution to hold parliamentary hearings and supported their proposal. The problem of overcoming tuberculosis in Ukraine is one of the most pressing problems of the country’s health system. Today, a new threat is emerging: the spread of resistant (sustainable) medicines to tuberculosis. The World Health Organization identifies a public health crisis. During the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, we lost some 150,000 people since 1995. On average, 30,000 Ukrainians are registered as TB patients each year, about 6,000 die from TB, and so many become disabled, disabled persons as a result of the disease. Ukraine, unfortunately, is among the five countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia with the highest level of disease associated with multiresistible tuberculosis. In doing so, Ukraine has been around for two years. In 2016, the State’s Tuberculosis Programme came to an end. In addition to the government's approval of the Concept of the General Purpose Social Programme against TB for 2018-2021, no draft law on the new programme in parliament has been registered by the government. But the problem does not go away. The huge problem of tuberculosis is evidenced and a high - level meeting of the United Nations General Assembly has recently been held. By 2035 the world wants to eliminate tuberculosis and achieve a zero level of disease, mortality, and suffering from this terrible disease. And by 2020, the European region of the World Health Organization aims to reduce disease by 25 percent, reduce death rates by 35 percent, and increase the effectiveness of treatment for multiple resistant tuberculosis by at least 75 percent. Therefore, the holding of parliamentary hearings on "The Ways to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine" is extremely relevant, is extremely important and should form a comprehensive public discussion of measures, both the future state-wide tuberculosis programme and the development of ways to address the problems that exist in Ukraine, the problems of the entire health system and the steps to achieve the global objectives of overcoming the infection and exit of Ukraine to the European level. The Health Committee approved the decision on the draft Decree 8141 and the outcome of the first reading to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Please note that the draft decree proposes to hold parliamentary hearings in October 2018. However, in view of the fact that, in accordance with Rule 234 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, decisions on the subject, day and time of parliamentary hearings are taken by the Supreme Council no later than 30 days before. Therefore, the Health Committee requests that a parliamentary hearing date be set — December 12, 2018, or December 19, 2018. The issue of solving the problem and reducing disease and death to tuberculosis is extremely important for our nation. This is primarily the work of an active government. I therefore ask all factions to support this decision and to vote accordingly in favour of the relevant parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u50	Please, colleagues, please sign up for Mrs. Irina for a question. Please, Roman Macola, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u51	Good afternoon. Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. This is no longer a question, but a support. Actually, I want to give you a couple of digits. According to the World Health Organization, TB is one of the ten major causes of human mortality worldwide, killing about 1.5 million people each year. In Ukraine, despite the positive trend in recent years, 12 people die every day from TB. A quarter of them were not diagnosed on time. The problem exists and needs to be addressed, including through such a tool as parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u52	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u53	Indeed, according to the World Health Organization, Ukraine belongs to countries where the number of people with multiresistant tuberculosis is one of the largest in the world. Hence, the solution to this problem is vital to the preservation and health of our citizens. I am very sorry that today, on Wednesday, there are very few national deputies in this Parliamentary Hall and that the issue that we are discussing right now still needs the support and vote of all the people's deputies in order to make the issue of health and the preservation of the health of the Ukrainian nation a priority for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u54	Please give us the following question from our distinguished colleague Michael Golovk. He's giving Ellen the word. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u55	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I don't have a whole lot of questions either, rather like supporting this decision. Of course, it is necessary to conduct parliamentary hearings on this subject, because today is a very difficult situation with tuberculosis in Ukraine. I know a little bit about this problem, though I'm not an expert on it. And in fact, we now need a public parliamentary debate on this issue in order to promote the necessary steps to overcome this epidemic. And in general, we see today that many of those diseases that we're going to say have gone to their extinction, or in general it was thought that their critical point has been gone, they're coming back now, and we have huge problems, huge problems with this in Ukraine. So, of course, it is necessary to conduct these hearings, to make the necessary decisions, and finally from general discussions on reforms to concrete steps to improve the health of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u56	Please answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u57	I fully agree with your offer. Indeed, given that we are a parliamentary-presidential form of government, I believe that it is Parliament that should hold parliamentary hearings. Parliament must then determine, and specifically, the resolution of these parliamentary hearings, on the basis of which the government will adopt state-wide programmes to combat tuberculosis. Also during parliamentary hearings, I believe that the governors of all areas of Ukraine should participate. Why? Because each area has its own disease rate. I want to point out that in Ukraine, the highest rates of multi-resistant tuberculosis are recorded: in the Mikolai region, there are 30 people per 100,000 population, in the Herson region there are 26 people per 100,000, in the Dnipropetrov region and in the Odessa region. So the participation of representatives of all levels of government is important in solving this medical and social problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Please have a word now for John Sporish's question. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u59	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, once again I want to support the speakers and also the committee, because this is really going to be a question of parliamentary hearings enough. One can say that it happens on a high level, and that's a fact, because we really have to fight this epidemic, and that's question number one. But I just heard from you that the governors will be invited, and I also wanted to ask that question, which is very clever. But, at the same time, I'd like to make sure that at parliamentary hearings, we always have a negative, a negative, I'd really like to make more presentations at parliamentary hearings positive. To have how many are cured to give this misery more positive, this question I would also like you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u60	Thank you for your support. I agree with you that I would very much like next time to talk about tuberculosis, we're talking only about the results achieved by the State in reducing the level of disease, in reducing the mortality rate of tuberculosis. But as long as Ukraine is included in the list of countries where tuberculosis is the highest in the world, unfortunately, we have to gather government representatives, collect city governments, mayors of cities, governors and speak for problems, and not just talk, but key to doing. That is why I believe that if Parliament really supports the decree that we will hold those parliamentary hearings that will start these changes for improvement and for the benefit that you have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u61	Mrs. Irina, we thank you very much for your thorough report on this determination. Dear colleagues, please sign up for statements from MPs and factions. And while the recording goes on, let me make a brief announcement. A number of statements from our colleagues came to the parliament's attention about the failure of the voting card. So the people's deputy, Razwadowski, is calling for him to declare his vote "for" in our vote for Bill 9036, to amend the Constitution of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Our colleague Razwadowski "for" "Glory to Ukraine!" It's like greetings. And two more came along, too, statements from our colleagues Maria Ionova and Alexia Hotcharenko that yesterday's card didn't work during the TSK vote to investigate the resonance attacks on public activists, they also voted in favour. Colleagues, thank you all for signing up for the ruling. Please, Sergey Shahov, present the "will of the people" position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u62	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, the "will of the people" group will support this draft decision, but there are still questions to the committee and questions to the entire parliament and the people's deputies. It was in the eastern part of today that the outbreaks not only of tuberculosis, in the eastern part of the country, but also of bark, increased 17 times the outbreak, and 35,000,233 people today became ill, of whom 21,000,500 children. Medical reform today collapsed along with Uljana Suprun. Today we demand an immediate investigation into the issue of the measles epidemic, the issue of the tuberculosis epidemic, the immediate removal of the minister of health, the minister of health, and an immediate solution to the vaccination issue, and the vaccine has also failed. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, "Our End."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Sergey Eutuszek. "Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, who represents the position of her "Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Alexander, we invite you to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! I want to thank my colleague Sergei Kiral for bringing up such an important question. Because the issue of tuberculosis, you know, is that we are entering five countries in the world to spread this disease in our country, and it is a question of confirming a terrible poverty. Because in civilized, economically developed countries, this disease is the lowest. As in the village, when you go and see that some goats are left, you understand the poverty of that village. Because everyone knows that if a goat, there's no money, you can't keep a cow, you can't keep a cow, you can't keep a cow with tuberculosis. What I want to point out is that I support 100 percent of those colleagues who demand Mrs. Suprun's resignation. It is not assigned, it is not an expert, it is the person who, in the Ukrainian Reform Act, was written in an explanatory note: this reform envisions a reduction in the population of Ukraine. It was written honestly, and everyone who voted and didn't read it, along with it, you have the responsibility that people have allowed to put in place a population reduction program in Ukraine. As far as tuberculosis is concerned. Please tell me, who knows which one of you has a child who has gone to school, to the garden, and ask when those classes have been tested for disease and possible infection in children in schools. You come to the Supreme Council, who's been checked out, and who knows who's capping, air-captaining this TB. But the worst part is that Mrs. Suprun doesn't satisfy her treatment. I was at a company in Chercas called Uriya Farm, which produces drugs for tuberculosis. One hundred percent of the medicine is purchased by European countries, and no amount in the Ukrainian company is purchased by the MOH of Ukraine. Because Mrs. Suprun thanks to some of the deputies here who called out "let's buy only from foreigners," counts the cost per cent of the medicine. And look at the percentage that they're covering: 30 percent of us have not yet closed drugs paid in 2016-2017. You said there'd be no corruption? Who gets the money to pay off the money that's in foreign accounts? And who will be responsible for the 400 million drugs that were. Like, removed from the treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u65	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u66	For oncological children? And I want to ask you another question. I very much ask those who will prepare these parliamentary hearings. I was approached by Dr. Chercas. We don't have compulsory treatment. They had a terrible experience a week ago when a very sick person had entered a children’s hospital and went to the children’s room to play with them! And they don't have the right to shut him down for treatment, they have the right to have him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u67	Dear Mrs. Alexander, 30 seconds ago, I was giving you time. Thank you very much. And I added. [[B in m in s a l in]] I added 30 seconds, colleagues! 15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u68	Let me finish. Thank you. Last form, please, let's think about it. It's not about human rights violations, it's about protecting people who are healthy from the sick. And I'm also calling again on the Supreme Council to put to the vote the question of reducing the cost of gas, which leads to poverty and tuberculosis in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Irina Sisoyenko, who is an expert on this subject in the faction, will present a position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u70	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Indeed, TB is not just a medical problem. Medically, in the fight against tuberculosis, it depends on just 15-20 percent. Everything else – 70 to 80 percent – depends solely on the government of our state, on the welfare and social standard of life of the population. Tuberculosis is a social problem that essentially reflects the socio-economic state of our country, the cultural and educational level, the well-being of the population, the level of development of the entire health system, including the physical health service. Today, the problem of tuberculosis in our country has, unfortunately, gone beyond the medical field and has become a state-wide problem. It must be taken into account that tuberculosis is a socially dangerous infectious disease whose main factors are the political, social, economic, and economic aspects that threaten the economy and national security of our nation. I mean, 75 percent of people with tuberculosis are working people, they're between 18 and 54 years of age. It is also a 25 - to 44 - year - old group with TB. These indicators show the high social significance of reducing tuberculosis, the damage caused not only by the cost of treating patients, but also by the fact that a large number of patients of working age are those who could work and shape the economic well-being of our state instead of spending money on treatment. Therefore, I would very much like to see that, despite the fact that there are very few national deputies in this room today, we still have the opportunity to vote and vote in favour of the parliamentary hearings. I also think that the situation of attending meetings of the Supreme Council, when medical matters are being considered, can be improved by voting on a bill submitted by the Self-Help faction to cancel medical benefits for the Ukrainian National Deputies. Bill 8221 has been filed and is waiting for its vote so that national MPs will receive the same medical care without any benefits in Ukraine’s medical facilities. So I think that there will be appropriate and high-profile visits to Parliament during the adoption and adoption of decisions that relate to the life and health of our entire nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u71	Thank you. And please, this is Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. Now there's the rebirth group. No, no, no, no, first the Rebirth Group and then the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, once Adam Mehnik said, "Sometimes a beautiful woman, as if losing her mind, is given to an unworthy cavalryman." Ukraine seems to have married a monster in general if you look at what's going on in our society. I mean today's Ukrainian power, because the inequality between power and the people has taken on the meaning that we used to have in the times of wild capitalism. And the most mobile part of Ukrainian society links its future, not with Ukraine, but with reforms. And moving to another country for many people who could really move reforms is tantamount to increasing their social status. And I can see that in future races, one who offers a convincing program to protect the people from that authority, including the preservation of the Ukrainian people, the preservation of the health of what remains of the Ukrainian people. And I can see that, your honorary colleagues, in support of the need for this decision, we should not hold parliamentary hearings, but we should take urgent measures to save the Ukrainian people from extinction, not just tuberculosis. Note that Remark described the TB of wealthy people earlier, and today Ukrainians are totally ill. And it was said that 85 percent is the guilt of essentially valid Ukrainian power. We need to have, I think, immediate and immediate hearings, a report from the Ministry of Defense, ask if there is a passport for the health of the Ukrainian people, and then determine what we need to do. Otherwise, who was in the country and saw these reforms? I would ask you, dear colleagues, if you are not present and do not know what is going on in the countryside, do not shed light on the subject of health reform. Because there, with the words of the classics, there is "dumb, hopelessness, and the poem is sobbing, and people are dying," and here you're immersing, reform. There's no basic thing that used to be, luckily. I see that the decision will not pass because there are no people in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u73	Please give a speech by Igor Shurma's representative of the Opposition Block. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Please tell me, who is opposed to holding parliamentary hearings? Do you need them? Of course. Why do they need them? For the first time in two years, it is possible for the Ministry of Health to hear professional and public figures from all over Ukraine. In two years, no college of the Ministry of Health has been held. The Ministry does not gather department heads, the Ministry does not gather experts to hear about the problems that are present today in the region. So the question today is not about leadership, we don't have leadership. By the way, where's the lead? She went to Bali. You know the Suprun goes to Bali for the second time a month. For the first time, to meet with the IMF, for the second time, biosafety. As who? She is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, she has no right to represent even the point of view of Ukraine. Who's sending her there? I don't know who's responsible. Now it's directly related to tuberculosis. We have tuberculosis -- this is theme number one, if we're talking about world standards, problem number one. What do we have today when Ukraine positions itself? 2016: Of the 500 million dollars allocated to international organizations today, the supply is 100 percent for medical supplies and only 79 percent for medical supplies. 2017: Think about it, 6 percent of the people were going to heal from January 1st to December 31st, 2017, 6 percent, and zero per cent of the cost. In the 18th language of today, it doesn't even work. The Ministry of Health is responsible for all of this. And that's only 15-20 percent of the responsibility, because tuberculosis is a social problem. In addition to money, food is needed. Someone today says how much of the district budget is allocated for food in tuberculosis cells? Because in addition to treatment, there should be good nutrition, that is, the symbiosis of the MOH and the district authorities. It's nothing. Who's working today, where's the firefighters? In the last three years, who, after studying at the University of Med, chose a Phthiatrist profession? What are their wages? What is in store for them? Nobody today says that this social problem is the result of poverty. We, if we want to build a model, let's sectorally change the detection, because no one from the village will go to the area for detection. Continued treatment and continued supervision. And remember one thing that needs to be done today is to go to people and listen to them, so parliamentary hearings are essential. The opposition block will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u75	He's going to vote yes. Right? Because we didn't hear the last, most important phrase. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party of this faction. And we're talking about TB right now, not tariffs, friends, tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u76	Dear Ukrainians, today when representatives of the parliamentary majority shed crocodile tears like bad TB in the country, the answer is one: because it is actually a criminal inaction of power. The TB program was completed in 2016. In the two years that have passed, the government, the government, the president, the parliamentary majority have failed to adopt a new program to combat tuberculosis. Diseases, TB treatment is financed, not by the state budget, but by the United Nations Global Fund, at the expense of the World Health Organization, and the state does not allocate anything. Let me give you an example. The great Osota, a village in the Alexandrian district of Kyrovgrad, is a child’s anti-tuberculus boarding house. They want it closed because they say there's no money. Ukraine now holds first place in Europe because of tuberculosis. More than 4,000 people in Ukraine died last year. Why Do They Die? Why does every other Ukrainian refuse treatment? Because the price of drugs is completely unavailable because the state does not finance health care and thus loses. The Radical Party team and I have proposed a very clear plan for lowering the price of drugs in order to save the lives of millions of Ukrainians, to give access to medicine, to medicine, to medicines, so that when a person comes to the pharmacy, they don't enter the museum. Because copier wages and pensions of a million Ukrainian workers, pensioners are not allowed to buy basic drugs from pressure, from diabetes, from cardiovascular diseases. We're asking the authorities to increase the cost of the "Affordable Drugs" program that our team kicked out two years ago. At least 2 billion dollars should go to Available Drugs, including a billion dollars to treat oncology. Because when people get sick today, do not let God when this terrible calamity comes home, the last one is carried away from the house, sold everything in the world, and still lacks healing. Last week, I was in Chercas, where a woman from Vatutina who has the right to receive insulin from a group with disabilities, she's not given insulin, they say, she's not. And in a person's choice: either die in three days, or pay at least a thousand dollars at one and a half thousand dollars of pension for that insulin. This is the choice that the Ukrainians are faced with by their inaction, callousness, and irresponsibility. Our plan to save Ukrainians is to lower the price of drugs; to put order on. in pricing; reinstatement of state control over drug prices; cancellation of VAT; restrictions on profitability not to make money on Ukrainian health; severe criminal responsibility for the sale of fake drugs; demonization of the drug market so that no pensioners, the poor, those who bring the last money to the pharmacy will be able to save people's lives, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this speech by the MP factions and groups. I'm asking you to sign up for my fellow national MPs. And I want to go back to my colleagues of the people's deputies who are in the towers right now, and go back to the session hall, because nine minutes after the national MPs' speeches, we're going to have a vote for this important and unifying draft decision. Please, Roman Semenha. Anna Romanova, please. Please, Mrs. Anna, we invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I very much thank my colleagues at Self-Help for taking such a wonderful initiative in Parliament to discuss such a terrible problem for Ukraine. Indeed, as has already been said, tuberculosis is a disease that is always accompanied by poverty, and it is the result, not the root cause. And we, first of all, when we even hold parliamentary hearings, talk about the problem of tuberculosis, not actually a problem, but an epidemic, we have to say that the solution to this problem lies with the Queen of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Policy first. And I really want to, and I'm asking the initiators of parliamentary hearings, so that these parliamentary hearings are exactly invited to perform the duties of Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy. These people, who are actually dependent on our country's economic policies. And self-help is already developing an anti-crisis plan to stop the catastrophic decline in the population of Ukraine. Because I want to remind you that behind mass emigration, we have mass mortality and very low birth rates in our country. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the actual rehabilitation of tuberculosis patients takes place in sanatoriums, resorts. And yesterday, for example, at the Committee of Youth, Sport and Tourism, the issue of assigning the status of the resort to the official State importance of the Coal. You know this is the oldest resort in Ukraine. It has healing areas that have become unknown to us today, either to a construction site or to a garbage can. And we, MPs, in this room now have to assign to this resort the status of the resort officially, of state importance, in order to preserve precisely in Ukraine these resorts, where they can be treated for tuberculosis, treat the disease of the motor vehicle, the disease of the breathing. Also, to prevent the destruction of the very institute of resortology and the destruction of other Ukrainian resorts that could bring our nation funds into the country’s economy, but today, unfortunately, they have become a monument to the Soviet era, a negative monument. Thank you very much. And of course, Self-Help will be in favour of supporting these parliamentary hearings and all the initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, I remind you that there will be a vote in six minutes. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room so that we have the potential to support this draft decision. Please, Yuri Solovay, out of place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u80	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society, I think that every citizen of Ukraine and a large part of the members of the Supreme Council are interested in the development and functioning of Ukrainian society. But, you know, if we want the state to have development, if we want the state to adopt the laws that society is looking for today, if we want Ukraine to develop, we need to optimize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself. Because if we look at what we've been doing for the last two days. I'm sorry, we danced on bones yesterday, or I wouldn't call it that. Today. It's an important decision, clearly, that we're looking at in the walls of Parliament. But let's face it, have many of the rulings that have been made by parliamentary hearings been the basis of the bills that have already been passed in the parliament walls? I think it's an absolute mess and today, I'm sorry, I don't want to call it that word, but it's just a speech that won't, unfortunately, have anything to do with the real solution to the problem of tuberculosis in Ukraine. This in turn shows that the work of Parliament, as I am, is ineffective. And so if we want to make the quality decisions that Ukrainian society is looking forward to today, I have repeatedly said in my introductions that we need to start with reforming the work of Parliament and making changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because you have to be clear and honest to society that, for example, Wednesday -- you don't have to lie to anybody, we think that people don't understand it -- it's not the day they decide that it's, unfortunately, a venue for speaking out to some people's deputies. Therefore, the first step that I stress in many of my speeches is to have an honest and open debate in Parliament's walls on reforming the work of Parliament itself, on amending the Supreme Council Rules on Optimization of its work, on the adoption of those bills on the Rules that have already been adopted in the first reading, which unfortunately cannot be adopted in the second. This will lead to effective work, both by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the adoption of laws that will be quality and meet the requirements of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the next performance by the national deputy Sage. I'm asking everyone to return to the session room. As long as there are no changes to the Rules, we need 226 votes for the positive vote. Please come back. And colleague Sažko gives the word to our respectable Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Why, once again, I would like to stress the need to hold parliamentary hearings. Because health officials will come to the hall, people who are dealing with the problem of tuberculosis on the edge, or treating doctors, will come to the public. I would also like to invite representatives of the power structures here. Why? Do you know how many every day, every day, newly diagnosed TB patients in Ukraine? 83. 30,000 every year. Do you know how many TB patients we have? 450,000 officially registered people. Do you know why we're always short of money? I'll tell you. In 2014, the state of the Ministry of Health had 185 officials, and they had their salaries. They have now increased to 331 positions, plus the National Service is 250. This has tripled the number of officials. Would you please tell me that TB and diagnostic treatment have improved three times? Is there more money left? And you know how much money has been made available to international organizations through the law that most have passed. Do you know how much? And almost one and a half billion dollars. And the drugs for 2018 were zero. In 2017, as many as 6 percent of the drugs came in. And do you know what age base we have for those people who work in Tubspans? And no one will answer that, because everyone has said, and today there will be no government distribution. You voted, Your Honor, the European majority. How many people are going to work in Tubspanzers today? Who are you throwing it at? What, though, is manifestness? You can imagine that a person from a village in today’s land would have to go to the area voluntarily, in health care, to do an X - ray or fluorographing, whether paid or free, not yet known, and no one would go. Today, what is the provision of rapid diagnostics? Now, everyone's saying that rich people don't help, but the Ahemtova Foundation has ensured that there is a PCR lab that has been diagnosed with tuberculosis for several hours. Nobody's talking about it, but put the waste materials there, and that's the district budget. Hearings should be in the presence of the muscle, checking financial matters, and the responsibility of the MOH to work to combat tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u83	Last speech, please, colleagues. People's Deputy Chizmar. He is given the word Natalia Wesselova. I ask you very much to return to the session room, and in three minutes there will be a vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u84	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, Yuri Chižmar Dear colleagues, it is clear that primary medicine in the context of medical reform today is essential because access to health care can be ensured only if primary medicine and rapid medicine work to the fullest extent. The primary medicine should still provide us with treatment prevention. But I'd like to focus on another topic today: health insurance. Because health insurance is the policy, when money really goes after a patient, it is real and politics when every citizen, under the conditions of the medical services that will be provided by this reform in its essence, will enable every citizen to receive adequate medical services at the very health care facility that he will be selected, the doctor he trusts, not the one he is tied to. It is insurance medicine that is a European type of medical development. What does it give? Obviously, it's an additional investment in medicine because insurance is making certain investments, and the state can release a large part of the funds to refinance them in primary medicine and medicine as fast as possible to ensure that this is the function, by state-by-state. Insurance medicine allows us to eliminate corruption in drug purchases. Because that's the kind of insurance company that has to pay off the insurance. will check every drug they buy, their quality, their price, their conformity, their membership in the treatment protocols, and thus the citizen will have an additional guarantee of quality treatment. Not that they cover their hospitals when they're wrong in the obstetric ward. Insurance also provides a real solution to the problem of Chernobyl and other ATO veterans, because the state, through insurance, can give them 100 percent of the treatment, not what we define today, add 3,000, 2,000. Someone also needs 3,000 for additional treatment because he did not suffer much damage. But there are people who need 100,000 to be treated and the 3,000 that we're adding don't solve anything. Thus, only insurance medicine, when the State assumes the insurance of ATO veterans, the Chernobylites, and other appropriate categories that have been affected by certain decisions of the State, gives them a 100% guarantee of treatment in our country. It is the insurance industry that makes it possible to create legalized official jobs today. Because we understand where the employer’s obligation to insure his employees is, the employee will require official employment, because then he will receive additional insurance, and this will return many employees, because he receives compulsory insurance in addition to his salary and gets a reduction in his expenses to protect himself and his family’s health. So when we look at insurance medicine, it's not just a question of how we're going to pay for medical services, it's going to carry a lot of extra other tools to regulate society to make it quality of life. Thank you for your attention. And so I invite the government from this rostrum to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're now going to be closing, we're done talking, and so in three minutes we're going to move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, and in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I am sure that this issue will unite the entire hall, and we can support it, but the maximum mobilization of the national deputies is important. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I would like to invite you to the closing statement of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Sir, Sergey, the final word is complete. In three minutes, the closing word. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Secretariat, I'm asking you to notify all the deputies. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to say thank you from this high rostrum to all the fellow national deputies who have joined the discussion. Obviously, the problem is urgent, the problem affects everyone and especially the major MPs who travel to the districts, communicate with their electorate, and realize that probably every family is affected by this problem in some way or another. There is, of course, poverty in Ukraine, there is a problem with corruption, there is a problem with insufficient drugs, there is a problem with the disadvantaged and not always timely and appropriate reforms in Ukraine. But nevertheless, I hope, and we all hope that we, parliamentarians, including our parliamentary platform, will join in solving all these problems, and these parliamentary hearings that I hope we will hold. In addition, we have an idea and a proposal in parallel with the parliamentary hearings to initiate a small business investment forum. Invite our rich Ukrainians, oligarchs, financial and industrial groups and ask them if they are prepared to finance their own resources to contribute to the financing of the internal Ukrainian contribution to overcoming the problem of tuberculosis. This is true of purchases and medicines, as well as the financing of new learning equipment and the creation of appropriate infrastructure. You know that the global fund that has already been mentioned, in fact, now covers 80 percent of all the financial costs of TB treatment, will gradually come out of Ukraine in the coming years. And that's also a problem, because it's funding, which. This and the financing vacuum, which will appear, will have to be covered either by the state budget or by private contributions. We have such individuals in Ukraine. I think in this forum we can ask them and ask them to join in on this important issue. Thank you all again. And we propose to the Head of the Supreme Council that we call on the deputies to the Supreme Council to make these good, nice words that have come out of this rostrum about how we care about people so that they are now also confirmed by a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u88	As far as I'm concerned, what is it? In order to hold parliamentary hearings, they may be given the dates proposed by the committee or other dates that we will set, for example, next year. So it's not principled. But December 12 or 19, as suggested by the committee, is completely normal for hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u89	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And, colleagues, during the discussion, the thought was that not everyone would vote. I emphasize, and I want to speak to the National MPs, that the decisions you're asking for, there's no committee for them, they're fundamentally unable to stand on the agenda. They can't stand. They can't stand. So, colleagues, it can't be made up of this decision. So I want to urge everyone to support and vote on this decision. Don't put TB on any other issue. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for decision-making, to take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? Come in, please. I am confident that the hall will be united. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The Challenges to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine" (No. 8141) for the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:52:26]] For-183 Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I'll read by factions, "Peter Poshenko's Block" 74, "The People's Front" 45, "The Opposition Block" 16, "The Self-Help" 14, "The Radical Party 2, "The Fatherland" 2, "The will of the people" 3 and "The Rebirth Party" 7. Colleagues, I call for support. It's a decision that concerns the sick, it's out of politics, and I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility and support this decision. And please invite the deputies to the hall. I'll point it out again. My colleagues, so I'm putting the vote back on the table, going back to the vote, and I'm asking you to support everyone. I propose to return to the vote for the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The Ways to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine" (No. 8141). Colleagues, please support everyone. We're voting for the return. Careful! Everyone, take part in the vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[11:54:10]] For 180. 180, even less. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? The factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 74, National Front – 43, Opposition Block – 15, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 1, Fatherland – 1, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth – 8. Colleagues, I'll put it back up again, and if there are no votes, the decision will be rejected. But I am sure that we should put aside political debates and support this resolve together. So I'm going to make a final suggestion to go back to the Order: "The Ways to Overcoming the Tuberculosis Epidemic in Ukraine" (8141). Please vote and please support the return to the verdict. Please vote [[11:55:21]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Thus, the 814-1-1 is rejected. But I hope you can prepare a new decision, and we will be able to support and conduct it when there are no politicians in the hall. Today it is rejected, colleagues. I don't want to take the risk of ratifications that are next, given the situation in the hall, I'm going to place ratifications on the rating vote. If there are no votes, we will not proceed to their consideration. So I run the rating vote first after the ratification (0199). This is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. So 0199, the rating vote. Please vote, please support, rating vote. Vote. [[11:56:38]] For 139 Next draft of the Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Elimination of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation in respect of Income Taxes and on the Value of Property, done in London on 10 February 1993 (0193), is a rating vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:57:30.]] For-143 The rating vote shows a low level of vote. And the final decision that it is today is a draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria on mutual access to the labour markets of family members of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (No. 0165). It's a rating vote. Please participate and support ratification 0165. Please vote and please support. [[11:58:27]] For-142 The ratings vote shows that we have no support for ratification today. We're not going to put them at risk, and when there's no resistance, I'm sure we'll be able to put them together and accept them collectively. And so the next thing you know, after the break, it's going to be the original health care bill on the basis of family medicine (No. 6634) at 12:30 after the break. It's 12 o'clock, and according to the Rules I'm calling a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work, not as simple as it is necessary for the country. Thank you, colleagues. At 12:30, everyone's waiting in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u90	Colleagues, please come into the hall, let's continue our work. So what I want to remind you is that we decided, by the end of the ratings vote, that the ratification issue doesn't have enough support in the room. The following is the draft Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine (No. 6634). An issue that needs a thorough and systematic discussion in general. And we agreed with the drafter of the bill that we could have this discussion here today in the hall. By voting, we will determine what support will be given. But we can transpose this bill if it's not supported. But we have a chance to talk thoroughly and systematically about primary health care, and so I urge everyone to actively discuss this draft law. First, I'm going to put to the vote whether there are supporters to consider it as a reduced procedure. If they support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:36:50]] For-55 I didn't support this offer. Therefore, we are going to consider the full procedure of the draft Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine (No. 6634). And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sisoyenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Please, Mrs. Irina, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am very happy that Parliament is finally going to consider draft laws that relate to the life and health of our citizens. I propose that Parliament vote and adopt Bill No. 6634 on primary medical care on the basis of family medicine. I'm asking the chairman to include slides. Next slide, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u92	Please, slides.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u93	What is the basic point and content of the bill? I think you all know that unfortunately in Ukraine there is no such thing as disease prevention. We all know that Ukraine is constantly engaged in what is happening at the level of government is only the possibility of curing diseases. And unfortunately, this situation leads to, especially in cardiovascular diseases, especially oncology, this leads to an enormous death rate, that people become people with disabilities just as a result of the state's exclusive treatment and this treatment already applies to almost the last stages of the disease. This is when the stage of stage III-IV oncology is almost impossible to do. So the challenge of the state is to really build a mechanism where disease can be warned, you need a system of prevention. And it is also extremely important that Ukraine finally build a high level of disease diagnosis. So the bill is a comprehensive bill on primary health care. We all know that 2018 has created financial opportunities for the new funding model, and family doctors, pediatricians, therapists already received much more money this year, according to the number of patients who made the corresponding agreements with them. But aside from funding, this is too little, we need to build a law and a mechanism for the work of doctors in the primary chain. Today, it is not clear what kind of doctors refer to doctors in the primary chain, which list and volume is to perform exactly the primary medical care link, and what is the relationship between the primary health care link and the second level, with the third level, with emergency medical care. A large number of questions that directly relate to the work of family doctors, pediatricians and therapists, and that is precisely why a comprehensive bill is prepared to form and clearly determine the law of Ukraine. The World Health Organization also points out that 80 percent of the patient’s calls are to be made to doctors and medical institutions at the first level of this primary chain. So if 80 percent of the references are made, there is a need for this to be clearly defined and to have a specialized Family Medicine Family Medicine Act, which I now propose to your attention. The first slide makes it very clear that the bill proposes to determine which medical facilities are first-level institutions. They're directly health care centers that are supposed to have family health clinics in their warehouses. Also, I think we need to preserve the availability of health care for the rural population and those FAPs that the government is now trying to cancel as health facilities in rural areas. I think we have to save them again. But instead of the FAP, we have to change their name, but completely preserve the essence and meaning of these health institutions in the villages so that the availability of health care for the rural population is preserved. So instead of just the name FAP, the bill proposes to name a medical institution, a family medicine facility. If we are talking about the development of family medicine itself, it is appropriate that we should change the names that we have left in the legislation since the Soviet Union. There is also now a situation where the state has finally begun to create opportunities for family doctors, pediatricians, and private practitioners. They may be subject to entrepreneurial activities and, directly, have a contractual relationship with the State for patients, a private practice. And also among the list of medical institutions and health - care professionals in the primary chain, we clearly note that these are FOPs, business subjects, and family doctors. Again, I stress that it is important for Ukraine to clearly identify the doctors of the primary chain. I think we should also return to the primary medical care line of the dentists directly. In this bill, we determine that first - level doctors are family doctors, pediatricians, therapists, and dentists. You all know how important dental prevention is. Many years ago, we saw how effective prevention cabinets were in children’s education facilities (in schools, in kindergartens). It is the dentist’s job to deal directly with the prevention of dental health for children and to do everything possible to ensure that the level of dental care in Ukraine is also high, thanks to the preservation of the health of children from infancy, early in life. Thus, the return of a dentist to the list of medical professionals at the first level is the definition, substance, and content of the bill. It is also important when medical care is provided to determine the responsibility of physicians in such an important form of medical care as rehabilitation. You all know that medical rehabilitation today is very often simply not available to the citizens of our state. After strokes, heart attacks, after DTPs, the primary link of medical care, after medical care in specialized hospitals, is to be treated with primary care. The same is true of palliative medical care. The care and provision of medical care to patients with palliative illness is also the task of the primary chain, and we need to define this in the law of Ukraine. And that's the bill I'm proposing to do. Next, please, slide. What I've already said is that Ukraine has to move on from a constant treatment model. Because if so, it may be fair to change the name of the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health. Because this department only does what it buys in many ways to treat the latest stages of the disease. So there is no public health policy in our country. So we have to move on to a state model, to the fact that the state has to constantly do prevention, screening, it's a very important, early diagnosis. And only after that is treatment and rehabilitation. The extremely broad meaning that we have to decide in the state is oncology, the fight against cancer. Oncology among women is particularly lower: cervical cancer in women of childbearing age, as well as breast cancer. Women have been suffering from this disease for 30 years. So screenings, prevention, early diagnosis should be based on the work of a family doctor at the first level of medical care. Next slide. We also clearly defined the rights and duties of patients, the rights and duties of doctors. The state should clearly form and build rules for the relationship between a doctor and a patient. On the part of the doctor, we need to protect, respect, and recognize the medical profession directly. On the patient’s part, we should report to him that not only does the doctor depend on the health of everyone but also directly on the individual. Thus, changing philosophies to self - responsibility for health, the need to approach a family doctor, a pediatrician, a therapist at the right time, should become a habit for each person and an attitude toward such appeals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u94	Please complete five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u95	And directly the patient’s attitude toward what he has at the right time at the first signs of this or any other disease, not waiting until he needs a call and an ambulance at number 103, but at the right time to contact his family doctor to give early warning of a large number of diseases that may occur in this situation. So the patient and his entire family’s orientation for a comprehensive family health care system is also equal to the patient’s ability to receive medical care, to directly reduce the level of disease, to reduce disability and mortality — that is the essence and purpose of the bill. Next slide. So this is essentially the goal that the government is now going to set itself up, directly and through the activities of the Ministry of Health, and by adopting legislative acts that should be aimed at preserving the health of citizens by means of diagnostics and prevention, and by doing everything possible to ensure that the state spends as little money on treatment as possible. As recommended by the World Health Organization, there is a clear definition for States with limited financial resources. It's the first, and the main, recommendation is that States have to deal with disease warnings, screenings and diagnostics. Each bracelet that is inserted into the screen and into the diagnostics protects 10 bracelets for treatment. So Ukraine has to move on to this particular model, which is, firstly, more humanely to citizens of the state, and secondly, it is economically more important for a state that today can afford to spend insufficient public funds on health care. So, honourable colleagues, despite the fact that today very few national deputies are in the Parliamentary Hall, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have all together to build a health system, not just to translate all responsibility into government decisions. It is we, the people's deputies, who have to assume responsibility, to adopt laws that the government still has only to make effective use of. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u96	Please sign up for the interview. Please, Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u97	Dear Mrs. Sisoyenko, thank you very much for the report, a very timely and necessary bill. I have two questions for you. First question. Before this bill, we were looking at a draft decree on tuberculosis. In Ukraine, the difficult situation with these diseases is difficult, and do you not think that the primary link of failure in timely diagnosis of the disease is partly the cause of such a high level of disease in Ukraine, especially in the case of tuberculosis? That's the first question. And the second question. If it is possible, very briefly, for our audiences, what specific changes can be made in the provision of medical care after the adoption of this law for the Ukrainian population? It's very short and very simple for ordinary people to change after this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. Tuberculosis, like other infectious diseases, is the basis for building this timely prevention and early diagnosis at the first level. It's something that's not in our state at all right now. That's the first one. Two: that's exactly what's going to change. This law requires us to clearly determine which doctors are the doctors of the primary chain. Today, this is incomprehensible. What medical institutions are first - level institutions because the Ministry of Health believes that the FAPs that are now treating and providing medical care in villages are no longer needed. I strongly disagree with this bill, and we're proposing family health centers for rural areas to keep a medical facility where the rural population will go directly. And also the return of dentistry, which is now completely excluded from any state funding, it all has direct commercial services, at the expense of the citizens. I think we have to get the dentists back into the original chain and form prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u99	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u100	This is especially important for children. We all know that at the right time in schools, in kindergartens in those preventive dental offices -- that means preserving the child's health not only in dental matters, but also not in children's kindergartens because of what's going to happen, for example, intestinal diseases and intestinal tracts. That is, it is to preserve, in effect, the health of everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u101	Please, next question, Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for such a thorough, systematic bill. Thank you for your presentation. Briefly the ones you mentioned. Thank you for the thesis on the preservation of FAPs. Actually, any reform is about money. How will the income of the doctors of the primary chain be shaped, as you can see right after the adoption of this bill? Will there be a movemental diagnostic that is now going out and running its reception in rural areas, particularly where the reform will be maintained, or on whose balance the ambulance will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. Rapid care is the third level of medical care. It does not apply in any way to the bill. But I agree with you now that the actions of the government, where there is legal uncertainty about the FAPs, where there is total legal uncertainty and, in fact, the destruction of emergency medical care, we have immediate medical assistance to return and preserve on the primary chain. People should receive medical care not only in medical institutions, but also be able to have a high temperature, when there is a sick child, not to take her to the hospital, as the government now suggests, but, directly on the basis of emergency medical care, the arrival of primary-line doctors — a family doctor, a therapist, a pediatrician — should be provided with such medical care. And emergency medical care, which is the third level of medical care, has to go directly to accidents, strokes, heart attacks, where the direct question is about saving a person’s life. So the definition of three levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u104	Please finish 30 seconds, and then the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u105	The legal and legislative definition of three levels of health care has this chaos, which is now, to build at the legislative level on clear conditions of interaction. And including direct funding from the state budget and the distribution of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u106	Please, National Deputy Capplin, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u107	Dear Mrs. Irina, I want to thank you for a very professional, very thorough bill. For some reason, I am convinced that the next minister of health will be you. And I think you're going to be a brilliant minister of health, and that's the only thing Ukraine's gonna win from. Thank you, too, for supporting my bill on the review of medical reform yesterday, and I would like to know your personal point of view on the relevance of this topic and the need to analyse every step taken or failed step in this reform that was approved by the Committee of Social Policy at first, unfortunately, and then, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like to point out separately that the presence of such a small number of members of the Supreme Council in the Hall is unacceptable when it comes to the health of the common people. I think we should compromise here, regardless of political situations, and pay attention to the health of the people, the ordinary Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u108	It was a trailer. Not a question. Oh, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out, for example, that a medical reform was carried out on a decision voted yesterday by the Health Committee. I think it's really very important in Parliament that we adopt laws, but the most valuable and important thing for people is how these laws are being implemented. It doesn't matter to the person that we're discussing with you here, and it doesn't matter if the government and the Ministry of Health aren't doing what is defined in those laws that are being passed in the walls of this room, so the issue of control on the part of Parliament is now extremely important in the area of medical reform. And I want to say that the law that was passed in Parliament is just the first step, it's just a change in the financial model, and in no way is this law built all the relationships, the mechanisms of work at the first level, the second level, as it should be adopted. So that bill that I'm proposing right now, it's making up the rules of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, there's got to be a committee report now because they want to know everything. Mrs. Irina, go back to your place of work. And the word for the report is given by Mrs. Oksana Korczynska, a member of the health committee. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u111	Praise Jesus Christ! I have the honour to present an important bill for Ukrainian citizens, and I regret that it is in a semi-empty room. This bill applies to a hundred percent of the population of Ukraine, because at some point every citizen of our country can, unfortunately, become a patient. The Committee on Health examined the draft Ukrainian Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Irina Sisoyenko, Mr. Constantine Jarinich, Alexi Kirichenko, and Sergey Berezenko. The bill proposes to regulate relations in the area of providing primary medical care for the population of Ukraine on the basis of family medicine. It identifies, among other things, primary health care, legal, organizational, and economic aspects of its provision. There is a clear mandate of executive authorities and local self-government bodies in this area, and it deals with the order of establishment and functioning of primary health care centres, their financing and material and technical care. On October 17, 2017, the Health Committee adopted a decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a first reading review. I want to tell you what this means for people who look at us. I would like to set an example for you on the outstanding man of our Ukraine. His name is an actor in combat, one of the best men in the "Azow" regiment, a volunteer of Igor Razobzdzko. In 2014-2015, hundreds of volunteers and girls were removed from the front line during the fighting in Shirokini. Mr. Igor was just the leader, all known on the front as the Pecan. This is the man who then gave his gift to the State and the fighters who protected it. He's back in civilian life, he's a great doctor. He received additional education, and in Berezan, he organized his first private fap as a family physician. Two years after he was demobilized from the military, he already has, as one doctor and having one nurse, he's a competitor of the entire hospital in the city of Berezan. And unfortunately, the local authority that the mayor is not helping him. During this time, man received additional education in ophthalmology, according to several disciplines in family medicine. He took immunization and vaccination courses. One of the best experts in the area, he participates in all the round tables of the Supreme Council, but instead local authorities prevent him from developing. Even as a fighter, he was not given an area to take credit and build this FOP to serve the population. Because this is the only competitor of the state, unfortunately, of our system that remains in the regions. It's the same principle that we're trying to get the money to follow the patient. It is up to the patient to decide where he is better, which better the family doctor will give him his medical care. That's why on the front four years ago we created a single medical space, because it's impossible for the health system to divide between 11 departments. 11 departments now share the health system, and there must be one principle — the patient chooses where to get medical care. These may be the institutions of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy. These could be the institutes of the Academy of Medical Sciences. This could be a private business. And when he receives this medical service, he knows and chooses, and that is the only way that such competition can grow and really change our health situation. This reform and this law is important for patients and professional doctors, because today, when you and I have an equalizer and a person who spent their time in education and continues to go to classes, study international protocols, and a doctor who sits in a family clinic and does nothing to grow up in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u112	How much do you need? One minute to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u113	They have one starting chance. And the quality of medical care, the quality of medical care, is important to the patient. And that's what Mrs. Irina's law is about. Because this applies to clear regulation, which in this case is primary medical care at the level of family doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u114	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for Mrs. Corchinsky as a representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u115	Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u116	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, Peter Dust Block. Of course, it's very nice that the committee, and the drafter of the bill, and together a good bill is being built, and we have to really support it. Do you think that all these questions can be solved in most cases by insurance medicine? It's really, well, it's already been said for early diagnosis of diseases, there's no questions. But really more than that, really, it's already raised this question, it's going to apply again to our FAPs and the village, and our voters will be interested in just more of this, really (in this bill there are a lot of things), but that's still what this life of our FAPs is going to be like? That's the main thing. And I think you are. Well, a few words say, after all, people hear the Supreme Council today, they look, and that's what's going to bother them more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. You know there's a rural telemedicine program in the Cabinet of Ministers right now. It's a big project, it's very big money. But it's impossible to do telemedicine without a frame, it's impossible. Because, at this point, telemedicine is not just equipment, it's just a connection, it's just a link, it's supposed to be a consultative link that can be available, but it needs to be a specialist first: it's a feldsher, it's a family doctor who's comfortable in the country. In terms of money and united communities, it is now convenient. I'm recently, and now we even stand to reward the well-deserved doctor for the head of the hospital in Selidium. It's a small town 20 kilometers from the front line. And she changed the situation. During this period when it didn't end. There's only six months of reform, and it's happening, and it's already, her clinic has already made twice as much money as it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u118	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u119	It's been over a year. Because it depends on the people who organize it. We are with you, Parliament, the legislative body, we should give them the opportunity, the platform, and, of course, the opportunity for them to be able to work in the countryside and help, including such a tooler, of course, telemedicine, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u120	Next question, Igor Shurma. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u121	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd like to remind you that this bill, 6634, defines the types of primary aid, the law, the organizational and economic principles of giving it, and so on and so forth. Mrs. Oksana, you're in your report, which the committee didn't authorize you to do, because I looked at the transcript, you're not in the report, it should be a professional person, with medical education, you're always talking about medical care and medical services. To help people understand, please explain that your imagination differs from that of medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u122	First. I was approached by the secretariat. Head of the secretariat of the Committee, Mrs. Semierun. In view of the absence of the chairman of the committee at the meeting of the Supreme Council, I am the first deputy authorized by the Supreme Council Rules to present laws. That's the first one. The other one. Now, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, our population is receiving medical treatment. Because medical services are, however, a service that is calculated, has a tariff that is approved and which. Which is the principle that we hope to follow with you. Now we have a primary link, and since January 1st, 20th, we have a secondary and a third link to the medical service. A second and a third chain today provides medical care. Those who have signed a contract with family doctors, a declaration, they receive medical services, those who have not signed, medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u123	Thank you. One last question. People's deputies Sverk, Eutusek. Are you going to ask? Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u124	Eutushka, Fatherland. Tell me, Mrs. Reporter, I understand that family medicine has many positive advantages. It's also a system of care for patients' diseases, and everything else. At the same time, however, family medicine cannot replace the medical care to be provided by narrow - scale professionals. I want to ask you, aren't there risks in this bill, because I mean, for example, diseases like orphan diseases in children, they need a certain systematic, continuous supervision and procedure? So I think that's the kind of risk in this bill. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u125	I'm going to read you a direct article from this bill to answer all your questions. "The primary medical care (this is what we are talking about with you) is medical care provided in outpatient conditions or at the home of primary health care professionals and provides advice, diagnostics, treatment of the most common diseases, trauma, poisoning, pathological physiologics during pregnancy, preventive measures, referral to medical evidence of a patient who does not require emergency medical care, to provide him with secondary specialization (such as those of those narrow specialists, as you said) or a third of the narrowly specialized medical care, to provide emergency medical care in case of acute physical or mental health problems. " I've been very specific to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Please return to your workplace. And thank you for the report. Colleagues, please register with the MPs and factions to discuss a bill on primary medical care on the grounds of family medicine. Please, the Sauka People's Deputy invites you to speak. Please, my dear colleague. You'll be out of town? Please. Turn on the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Leader. First of all, I want to thank you for the bill that is currently being discussed. It's a good bill, and it's needed, first of all, by the people of Ukraine. First of all, I know Mrs. Oksana Korczynski very well, who has laid out and done everything she can to be aware of this law to the citizens of our country. But there is a question that is currently relevant to military personnel. What fighters, their rehabilitation, where they name, who, and how much money, and who will be responsible for this in the future and be responsible? And we're going to say who's going to care? It is in this law that there is no basis for it at this time. So I'm going to ask you to do the same. Well, the previous bill that we've been looking at today also needs the people of our country. So, honourable fellow MPs, once again, I would like to urge you, all of us, to work in Parliament. Because at present the people of Ukraine are looking at us to work and adopt these laws that are necessary for our nation’s health. So I urge you to come into the hall and vote on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Sauka, for the position expressed by your faction. And we invite you to the word of Igor Shurma, who represents the position of his faction "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u129	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, a respected medical community! Here you see the real state of attitude of power, the executive branch of power and the representative branch of power. Well, tell me, if we're talking about health reform, I'm telling you, it's okay for this bill right now, and I'm not going to analyze it, will 75 people vote? Well, they're going to be in the hall for another 60. You see, this is a deliberate introduction of medical bills, according to tuberculosis, parliamentary hearings, this bill in the hall, so that, if you'll excuse the rudeness of the word, they'll be overturned. Well, when it comes to pronouncing the so-called 6327 medical reform, everybody's sitting there voting for three or four buttons. And when it comes to a specific bill, it's gone. There are no parliamentary hearings on problem number one of the World Health Organization. Why, according to the reporter, is there chaos in medicine today? I'll tell you. Because even these legislative initiatives by the authors and the European majority, you do not know what you are building, which health model you are building in Ukraine. So as much as we're talking about to understand what we're voting for, show us a model. To that end, the Prime Minister must present the Minister's candidacy. You, the coalition, must give your candidacy. For two years, you cannot find among the 40 million citizens of Ukraine a person who can lead the Ministry of Health who would take responsibility and say, "We are proposing, the European majority, that is, a model for medical development, that is strategy." This is the concept of its implementation, so many laws need to be adopted, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the orders of the Ministry of Health when the issue can be resolved gradually. This bill, with all due respect, is mostly regulated by legislation. There's a provision for the Primary Medical Center to be settled, an outpatient position, a field office, an obstetric post, it's all settled. This is zero. What is more, people who are good today, as in the Soviet Union, are governed by milkmaids. People who don't have medical education who get confused, what is primary medical care with medical services that don't regulate with legislation, are aspiring to vote. The opposition block won't support this legislative initiative because it's already settled. And in general, those building initiatives won't do anything, so let's propose a hall. And those who try to polish what they are today are all those people who are not responsible, they and the Suprun don't support it, and they don't want to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Irina Sisoyenko, from her faction, now present the self-help position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u131	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. You know, after what's going on in the state, everything is regulated by legislation that's already in force, we all see it, you can see it directly into the state of medical institutions, where medical workers are working today and making the right conclusions. I want to point out that this bill is not some kind of initiative and fiction of the people's deputies, and this bill was prepared and written by the Association of Family Medicine, this bill prepared by the Institute of Family Medicine, the Academy of Postgraduate Medical Education of Plato Shupik. This bill is prepared and supported by the Association of Dentists of Ukraine. This is directly created by what medical personnel directly require of us, from parliamentarians to approve at the level of law and give them clear rules for the work of the primary chain, if indeed Ukraine is moving towards a model for the implementation of quality and affordable health care based on family medicine itself. So I'm very sorry that it's almost an empty Hall of the Supreme Council. I think that because of this attitude towards medicine, that the previous parliamentary hearings on TB have not found the right number of votes, because there are no deputies, this bill, I feel that it will be the same fate that no one will vote for it. So I think the first law that this Parliament is going to adopt is the 8221 bill, which is going to take out the national MPs of all the medical benefits and make sure that the people's deputies, just like ordinary Ukrainian citizens, are treated in the district, in the city, in the district hospitals to stand in those queues under those cabinets to see the whole situation, and then come to their place of work, on a parliamentary day for their work, to vote on medical bills and all those initiatives that relate to life and health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor, Irina. I really want to emphasize that, along with Mrs. Irina, Sergey Berezenk, with other colleagues representing the Health Committee, we were in a very important setting for the 100th anniversary of Plato Shupick Medical Academy. And we want once again, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to welcome a team of this important Academy of the name Plato Shupick with a 100th birthday, a beautiful date. I think you're all going to join in. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block, Ivan Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u133	Rybak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Here, in fact, there are people in this room today who care about the average Ukrainians. And in fact, 80 percent of health problems can be solved at the examination stage, at the primary treatment stage in rural outpatients and in the field obstetric centres. Even more health problems can be solved if we pay more attention to the environmental situation in general in our nation’s territory. Unfortunately, today we are talking about underfunding in the health care system, but we are totally not paying attention to environmental protection in this room. But it is known that there is a direct dependence on the state of the environment to the health of the population of the state in which the environment is in an improper state. Therefore, fellow believers, these two problems are completely intertwined. These two problems will come back to us with more and more spending from the state budget in the coming years. Because the less money we invest in the environment, the less money we invest in quality drinking water for our citizens, the more money we have to spend on health care, prevention and treatment of our Ukrainians from cancers that have a direct dependence on environmental conditions. Because all those emissions, all those situations that are associated with CO2 emissions, and today we have a problem in Dnipropetrovsk, the problems in Hersonian, the Curve Rig, so we have problems serious enough with drinking water, including in the central regions of our country. In Western Ukraine, we have serious problems, such as in the city of Kallus, with hazardous waste polygons. All these problems need to be solved now, for in a year or two, after ten, we will have to spend half of the national budget on health care. But I want to thank the initiators of this bill for, indeed, a positive initiative and I will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, you always want to, but I never refuse "Fatherland" in your sovereign right to take the floor and speak on the subject, not of tariffs in this case, but of the Primary Health Care Act. Thank you. Please give the floor to the honorary colleague Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Eutushka, Fatherland. We've just heard the report and the drafter of the bill, actually, and we've heard the committee's position. I'd like to apologize again, but we don't understand when we discussed this bill with experts, the way in which the primary service will be provided, the procedures for carrying out those diseases, the chronic diseases, the example of children getting sick in an orphan disease. There has been a lot of talk today about tuberculosis, and the same situation is that we are now in five countries with the highest score. It's basically an epidemic that affects our country's future. And all of this within this, this, sorry, pseudo-reform that we're trying to do again, sorry for the slang, to cook with all this money and all this innovation. What would I understand in the context of medical reform? Or should medicine be reformed? But of course it's necessary, because the level of services that are being provided in hospitals today, regardless of the level -- in the infirmary, in the primary chain -- is very low and weak. It's from. There's a lot of speakers here saying that depending on what health care is going to be in these health institutions, these are direct expenses that we're voting with you here in the context of government budget decisions, those budgetary regulations. To my great conviction, the primary chain, which is financed perhaps minimally, cannot work effectively and provide quality services for one simple reason that finances need at least 5 percent of our national GDP. Only then will we be able to talk about family medicine, about the primary link, and only then will we be able to understand that our doctors are provided with a proper pay-as-you-go fund and other benefits. Because today they're sorry! – get married and think about how to live, the apiorians can't provide certain services. So we'd like to talk, Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko, about how in the primary chain of medicine we have the opportunity to foresee a variety of multiple possibilities for providing services, in order to conduct procedures for those with chronic diseases, as it were. As long as we don't see it in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to address the Radical Party faction. Don't take the floor so there's no one who hasn't heard from us. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Please, Sergey Kaplin. And then we're registered by the Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u137	I'll do it instead of the Radical Party. Respectable compatriots! Well, we're actually going to vote for this bill, and I think it's on time, it's a sequel. Well, rather a rescue from the reform that was initiated by the coalition and which, in my opinion, today needs careful study and a high professional evaluation. At the same time, I want to point out from the trade unions, the Social Democratic Party, that health reform starts with the salaries of doctors. I've just opened up a website of offers abroad for our doctors so they can check:ua. Jooble.org. Please: dermatologist-cosmetologist, Likar Za Cardon clinic (Qatar) - 140,000 bracelets per month. These are proposals that we have directly in Ukraine. The dermatologist at the clinic, the Career Land Center clinic, is 145-149,000 dollars per month; the hospital's payload is 64,000 dollars per month. The doctor in Germany is 140,000 a month. Germany: need a doctor – 2400 euros. And so on and so forth. Again, Germany is 3,600, a dermatologist in Kue is 4900 euros. We have an average salary of about 6,000 dollars. Please tell us who will stop a young person who has studied the money of tax payers in our Ukrainian branch, who is watching the Supreme Council of Ukraine today and sees 70 people working to reform the health system. More specifically, do they not work on health reform, health care? Who will hold her back, please tell me not to go abroad to work? A young man who speaks English speaks English brilliantly. So I think today we need to answer with you a clear question: where to find money to pay a decent salary to our doctors. If there is no answer to that question, all hospitals can be boldly eliminated. You can eliminate the Ministry, you can stop demanding the resignation of the Suprun. As for the small number of people at work today. Yes, you are. But, my dears, sit here in the workplace and strike as the miners struck, not in the houses next to the TV or the restaurants, but in your workplace. If you're against tariffs, come here, speak up, discuss bills, show our country, dear fellow countrymen, that you're working your salary and your right to steal from our dear fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies. Please. We're going to have 15 minutes of debate from the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please sign up. Please, Roman Semenha, allow me to have a word with you. Irina Sisoyenko stands for the bill. Will you speak for 10 minutes? Please, six minutes. We're now combining the right to speak with the People's Deputy and Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u139	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. You know, I'm very sorry that aside from the fact that there's not enough people in the House of Deputies to adopt this important bill, I'm very sorry that there's no one in the government box. Please see where the Ministry of Health is. - No, it's not. Ministry of Finance? - No, it's not. [[Applause]] The question of the salaries of health - care workers, the question of the salaries of doctors, three years from this parliamentary rostrum by representatives of all political forces. The Self-Help faction of the third year requires an increase in medical tariff charges. But who is to do so? This is what the prime minister of Ukraine has to do, and the minister of finance has to do it. Direct funding and the formation of expenditure on the proper remuneration of health workers is the responsibility of the government. And we can talk about this in this room for many more years, but if there's no political will directly to the first person of the state, the executive branch of power, nothing will change, we'll just continue to talk about the wages of the medics abroad, and then the doctors from Ukraine will just keep going. In the Western region, in Zakarpat, doctors generally go to the whole department. We will soon await the fact that when people come to the hospital, there will be no one to approach physically. Thus, the issue of the approval of laws that are to build a real health system is to take place in this room, and Parliament has to adopt laws that build a first - level, second - line, third - line relationship. This is Parliament's responsibility. But then the government's responsibility is to properly implement these laws. And I really am once again, and I don't know how many times the self-help faction points out that it's not hospital walls, it's not medical equipment that cures and saves people, it's only medical people, it's medical workers. And our joint task is to reach a decision, a political decision by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, a minister of finance and to raise medical tariff levels for the next year, so that when the Law on the Change of the Health Finance System is fully in place, there will still be high-quality doctors in the city, district, district hospitals and medical services for all the citizens of our country. Also a very important issue is that we are currently discussing a bill on the primary medical link, and once again, my colleagues, from this parliamentary rostrum, I stress that while there is no preventive system in Ukraine, until Ukraine does timely diagnostics -- a huge number of people in Ukraine already have the latest stages of disease. There are large amounts of strokes and heart attacks every day, cardiovascular disease. And in such cases, who saves the sick? Not a family doctor, not a pediatrician, not a therapist, in such cases they provide medical care and care for the health and life of each individual exclusively emergency care workers. For the third year, the government has ignored the financing of emergency medical care. How many times have we referred as national deputies to the government with this huge problem? I don't know how much more it takes for emergency health workers to meet under the government and parliament walls to report that the lack of government funding for ambulances simply leads to an increase in mortality each year in Ukraine. And this is the direct responsibility of the government to ignore emergency funding. In the following year, the government offered to finance an ambulance for only five areas of Ukraine and the city of Kiev. The Self-Help faction requires that changes be made to Ukraine's State Budget and that all areas of Ukraine receive the same funding at the request of each area for immediate assistance. It cannot be that in 19 areas of Ukraine, doctors will receive higher wages, and in other areas they will not receive more. It can't be that in some areas the ambulance will be purchased, and in other areas it won't be purchased. There must be justice, and there can be no discrimination in relation to human life and health. That is why we demand that in the following year, funds be made available to all areas of Ukraine for state funding of emergency medical care. This is the foundation for preserving life and health. At the same time, in Ukraine, there must be a system law on primary health care and a process of prevention, screening, early diagnosis of diseases, medical rehabilitation, which is important today for both wartime actors and for those who have suffered injuries after the trauma are also now limited in medical rehabilitation. All of this must be formed by the bill that we are now drafting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u140	Thank you, dear colleague. And John Ribak is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u141	Ivan Ribak, 203 constituency, Cherniewec district. For a deeper analysis of primary health care in the Carpathian region of Bukovina and Ivano-Frankowish, please give the floor to my colleague Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u142	Please, Mr. Solovay. From a moment, please, Mr. Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u143	Thank you. Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, we hear a lot of medical questions today: both tuberculosis and family medicine. We all, I think, want to make serious improvements in the medical field. But I'm going to tell you honestly, seeing that once on Wednesday after Parliament's work, I say that until we cure and implement the effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament, there is nothing we can do. We want to achieve the result when the Ukrainian Parliament itself works ineffectively. Well, for whom is there a secret in Ukrainian society today that no bill can be practically voted for on Wednesday. For whom is there a secret in the country today that, in fact, only those bills that need an immediate solution can ensure their appearance? The issue of reforming the work of the Ukrainian Parliament is also at stake today. We need to take every step we can to ensure the appearance of the national MPs. We need to take all the steps to reduce the legislative spam that is there today in the parliament walls. We need to tell society honestly and openly that, for example, on Tuesday we are considering drafts on the first reading, and on Thursday we are considering bills on the second reading. We need to take this very seriously to reform the work of a key organ in our country, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because no other reforms that we want to make are, first of all, resisting the inefficient organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine itself, which I have repeatedly talked about. That is why I call always on us to have an open day of amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to discuss these issues, which are in the work of the Supreme Council today, and to make appropriate decisions. Today, using the opportunity to consider such a bill, I would like to ask the Parliamentary Chamber of Directors of the Ministry of Finance and Management of the Ministry of Health to immediately pay off the pay arrears that have arisen today in Kosovo and the Supreme District in front of medical personnel, and this is generally the case in all the mountainous areas of Ukraine. Today we have a situation where the salary is paid in August. People over two months won't get paid. I turn to the government on a regular basis to resolve these issues, which today are acutely located in the mountainous areas of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u144	Thank you. I want to address the Self-Help faction. Will there be more colleagues? Thank you. Please, Mikhail Papiev. Passes the word Igor Shurmi. The place will be played by Igor Šurm. Please, a colleague from the profile committee who is an expert on the bill under discussion. Please. The best. Okay. In your faction. Your faction is the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u145	Mrs. Irina, thank you for the warm word. Dear colleagues, what is the reason for these, you know, controversial speeches today? We are talking about the need to reform Parliament, because that work is not effective. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that your coalition is counting, as you say, at least 226 votes. So gather and reform. You have European parliamentarians of the recommendation. What's bothering you? You have even 302 votes, as I recall, in the beginning. You can make constitutional changes. Who are you appealing to? You have to appeal to yourself. This is the first time. Secondly, today you have to understand that doctors don't decide anything at all. Look who's working for the Ministry of Health today. A person who has not been a member of the Cabinet of Ministers for two years, temporarily serving as a minister of health, presented a degree at the University of Michigan. This is the level of secondary education. Even the ostration she's been through, the Ministry of Education says she can continue her studies. Well, half-breeds, all right. There was a half-life in the dark office as a radiologist, and she didn't see anything, and she wanted to offer us something, from her point of view, good. But who is leading it? There are no people with medical education at all — all experts! She's happy that she has an expert person who even worked for a gas station manager or a gas station, and I don't even read carefully there anymore. There's people with humanitarian education, they're all trying to tell doctors how to live. Hence, it is no coincidence that today, colleagues, the Ministry of Health has not been in office for more than two years. What do these people, without medical education, talk to medical scientists about? What are those people who are invited to the international conference today to talk about with a professor's and professor's staff, to be heard, to be provided with operating rooms? Nobody talks to them. Today we are talking about the need to adopt a certain law. I'll tell you that I'm really sorry about the bill's author, it's a mockery to bring the bill into this room. For me, as a Ukrainian citizen, health issues are more important than ratifications. Ratifications. What if a simple person in a rural town hears when he gets sick, what benefit is there from such ratifications? And health care is everyone's health. What's more, this bill is the result of this, and once again, I emphasize that we don't know what model we're building. The same people voted for 5 percent of the gross domestic product for health care, none of them today. Any change is unrealistic! You don't even want to hear the problems at parliamentary hearings. That's why it's the voice of the evoking bill, and it's a very sad attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u146	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u147	And I'm very sorry to hear about that in an empty room. This is the attitude of the political elite toward health problems. This is the result of the attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers toward health care. It's not hard to break, but it's hard to build, it's really true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u148	And please give the next speech to the national deputy Dekhtyarchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u149	Dear Society, I would like to point out that the primary health care bill is, of course, essential. But what has happened today is that it is simply not appropriate to be considered in the hall. I'd like to talk about primary health care, the situation on the spot. In particular, how the funds are used are allocated from the state budgets in 2017-2018 for the reform of primary health care, particularly for the construction of outpatients. In general, the practice and experience that I have with primary health care doctors raises a logical question: and why did we spend the first time on building new outpatients, while there was a major problem with the ambulance network, the FAP in Ukraine has never been and is not. The problem with human resources, the problem of providing equipment for existing outpatients and field obstetrics. At the same time, huge costs, which have not yet been used, are focused on the construction of the infirmary itself. Once again, when decisions were made on the construction of one or more hospitals in different areas, the opinion of both the public and the professionals was not taken into account. One example, in my district, this kind of family-type ambulance is planned to be built 2 kilometers from the center of the future hospital district. What is the content of construction, the cost of government spending, which will be their efficiency, under a great question mark? Very often similar decisions are like finding water standing in the middle of a river. In large numbers, there is little relevance to such things. And I would like to draw the attention of the executive authority, who is inefficiently and untimelylyly using, once again, the cost of building these outpatients, of such violations. And the bill is actually necessary. It's too bad we're just discussing it in the hall, all of us, but we can't make any decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have until the end of today's session for just 14 minutes, we will not be able to enter into the next draft. I propose that you give me as chairman the right to proceed for a few more minutes from the Ukrainian national deputies, and then we move on to the vote. Is there any objection? It won't. We're going to read out the names of those deputies who are still in the list of speakers, and you're going to let me know who wants to use that right. National Deputy Kishkar, Wesselova, Ednak, Kaplin, Romanova. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what you want, okay. Please give me a signal as to who wants it. We have three other deputies who want to use their right to speak, and they are written in this letter. No, it's written. You're going to sum it up, you're going to sum it up. So please, National Deputy Igor. My God, I'm sorry, Igor Shurma. Mr. Igor, I beg your pardon. Then there's Ostap Eden, then there's Kaplin, and then there's Irina Sisoyenko. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, the only advantage, let's say, Wednesdays and Fridays is that all the people left in the hall today, at least they don't bother speaking and discussing the subject. Regrettably, today’s health problem is not a problem for MPs to be interested in solving the problem. Do you know what wickedness, wickedness, including those who wrote this law is? I'll remind you what we voted for, the so-called medical reform, 6327. It's not reform, it's a financial document, it's about money, it's not about the health care system. So by voting for this bill, we're constantly being talked about reform in the original chain. It was last year, I'm not asking the question that it was a false vote, and today the matter is being considered in the Constitutional Court. I'm talking about something else. You have adopted, voted and passed this law, signed by the President of the Supreme Council. And today, a year later, you're trying to make changes and additions to your original job. Think about it, the law has to work since January 1, 2018, its violation, the law, started in the first half of the year, and only today will you regulate what the author of the bill said, the chaos and differences that we have today in the original chain. So what did you vote for? So you're also saying that this bill, which you call medical reform and wave a flag, is unrealistic to implement, because it needs legislative regulation. What did you vote for then? This is the first one. The bill proposed that there should be reformary changes, not only in wage increases, but also in order to change the quality of the health care of the population on the primary line, and this is a basic, rather than the wages of the medical staff, it requires that the state allocate the appropriate money. You are planning to allocate just over 3 percent of the gross domestic product this year for 2019. There is a lack of $1,000 billion to the minimum to ensure the implementation of the so - called medical reform. Instead of seeing the minister of health today, they have no one. There was a meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, and Prime Minister Groysman was instructed to ensure the appearance of representatives of the Ministry of Health. on the drafts. None of them are here. The Ministry does not care what initiatives the MPs take, the government does not care what is done in health care. They're busy getting loans that they're going to pay in ten years and they're not. There they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u152	Thank you. And, please, the next performance is Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u153	Using medical rhetoric, I can say that now, those deputies working in the hall are doing, by the way, their constitutional duty to be in the workplace, we are actually doing an ambulance function, so that this system document, on which several national deputies worked, the Council's apparatus, the counsellors involved, the advisors, has the right to life. And so that those mistakes, the procesesses, the imbalances, particularly those related to reform management, the financial fulfillment, the implementation of this reform, are overcome, and it becomes on some more or less professional dynamic rays, and our fellow countrymen get the right to be saved from death, from disease. Indeed, by supporting the words of previous speakers, I join the criticism of the Ministry of Health in the personnel policy that is being carried out there. I was recently invited to a meeting and report from the Court of Auditors on the issue of reform in the public service system. For you to understand, after the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, our international donors, our international partners, have imposed sanctions on Ukraine as part of financial support for the reform of the State Service. It's done exclusively. The reform programme is implemented by only 20 per cent. In the Ministry of Health, the Minister-in-Charge was appointed as reform advisors for former gas stations, McDonald's and other food establishments, and even one of the heads of the shish. This team has effectively reformed the health system, which depends on the percentage of tens and millions of people — grandparents in the village, babies in kindergarten, and young families. In the hall today, 60-70 national deputies. 60-70 people's deputies on Wednesday, mid-week, are looking at a systemic, important law, a reform locomotive as such. And I realize that we can't make that decision in principle today. And another question. To draft this law, to discuss this law, money has been spent on the broadcast of this law on cigars, metallurgy, miners, and taxpayers’ money. Now, in these two and a half hours, we spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in order for the Supreme Council to work. That's the price of the Supreme Council's work. So I urge you to stop now and consider this bill tomorrow. And today, do all you can to save him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. And we invite you, this is the final speech by the distinguished Paul. Now is Ostap One, and then, in summary, the drafter of the bill, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u155	Good afternoon, fellow believers, distinguished listeners, viewers! We've had this medical day on Wednesday, you might say, because we've been discussing and discussing medical matters all day. Unfortunately, the outcome of these discussions is low, but it's all the same for society, I think it's useful today to hear a situation that's been caused by tuberculosis in Ukraine. And as I looked into this issue before actually looking at it, I learned from experts that the rate of TB in Ukraine is about 70 people per 100,000 population. What's more, I've learned that the evolution of this disease in Ukraine, the spread is about stable over the last few. all the years of independence of Ukraine. So you can actually conclude that the treatment model, the prevention of tuberculosis in Ukraine, is ineffective because, for example, in Europe and in developed countries, it is about 10 people per 100,000 population, which is less than in Ukraine. The same Baltic countries have actually reached European Union level. What does this talk about? What is partly involved in prevention of early detection of primordial disease, including family medicine. Again, I would like to point out that the problem has not been created in recent years, and there has been a problem in recent decades. By this law on family medicine, I think all Ukrainians want a family doctor whose family trusts in his professional characteristics, who gets a decent salary. Information about each patient in this family doctor, his analysis, his medical history to make it available online so that when he comes to another part of the country, he can get access to this information by selecting another family doctor to get quality and professional medical care. So, honourable colleagues, for days, if we were to (I understand this, already tomorrow) consider and vote in favour of this law, I would ask and suggest that we support it on the basis of further development to the second reading, because we all understand that the current system, which. to which the Ukrainians have been so complaining, it has been the result of inaction, criminal inaction in recent decades. And it was our Parliament that had this responsibility and opportunity to start the qualitative changes that would take place in Ukrainian medicine in the coming years and decades. The important thing is that we move in the right direction. And I'm sure this law is a step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u156	Thank you, colleagues. And the closing word. Irina Sisoyenko, author of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, you know that there are so few people in the room today, that today, when we consider a bill concerning medical care, medical care, there is no one from the government in the government's bed, this next time shows what the attitude of the first person of the state towards medicine and the health of the citizens of the state is. Regrettably, medicine is always the ultimate principle: the final principle is government funding; the laws that are passed on to the Supreme Council. There are no national deputies. And that's what happens all the time. I believe that we must, however, begin with what is required at the level of the law, both by officials and by national deputies, to receive medical assistance exclusively in Ukrainian public hospitals, not even in private hospitals, but exclusively in public hospitals. Only, perhaps, will there be a full National Assembly, perhaps and then will it be interesting for government representatives to also listen to what Parliament is essentially trying to do. Last year an important law was passed that changes the system of financing the entire health care system, but it is only one, one law. No state of the world has changed the health system by one single law, and this cannot be prescribed and a new model of the health system can be built by one single law. And now, essentially, there's an attempt in Parliament to do the direct action that the government has to do. The Ministry of Health is about to propose to Parliament the bill that we are discussing with you right now, the primary link of medical care. Because doctors were given the money, but the rules of work did not determine who are the doctors of the first level, which medical institutions, the preservation of the faps in the countryside, is all the work of the Ministry of Health, and the government should directly be the author of such legislative initiatives. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. As this bill is extremely important, this bill has to build rules of work for first-level doctors, I ask that we do not vote in favour of this bill now. We have discussed it, we understand its high meaning and its purpose. I ask that this vote be postponed on the day when there will be an adequate number of deputies in the Chamber in order for this bill to become the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-07-m0.u158	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, I want to say that I have no authority to move anywhere. We can finish the discussion tomorrow, but we still have a report from the Corchinsky Committee, and we're going to vote tomorrow. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues. Don't yell in the hall. We do. The closing word is from the committee of the Corchin Oksana Anatoliyevna. But we'll hear it tomorrow, the closing statement. And tomorrow we'll try to mobilize the voting room. Do we have a deal? That will be wise. Then, Mrs. Oksana, I have a request for you, because you're not going to be able to speak today, tomorrow I'm asking you to be in the hall at 10 o'clock so you can make a closing statement, and we'll try to find votes tomorrow. You're in, right? Wise, fellows. So, colleagues, I, by the way, don't underestimate the discussion, because I think that parliamentary debate on any subject is a very important form in itself. When we are. Sometimes we don't have time, and we can't even get to the bottom of the point. Parliamentary debates and discussions are a good and important form of why I will also initiate the introduction of a form of parliamentary debate as a separate issue without solutions when we take a topic and simply discuss it. And that's why this is important. And what we've had today is a very important discussion on both tuberculosis and family medicine, and I think it's an important element of Parliament's work, which is actually a place for discussion. We don't have time to finish the discussion. Tomorrow we will continue to discuss the bill and unite the adoption hall. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. I wish all the national deputies fruitful work on the committees today. And tomorrow, hopefully, we'll have an effective and effective job. Thank you.
