ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, are the colleagues ready to register? So please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:35]] There are 346 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, I'd like to tell you the logic of today. If I may, I'd like a moment of your attention, colleagues. We're planning a budget day today, and it's the right thing for everyone in the room to understand and we'll make common sense. I would like to remind you that the first question is that we are finalizing the draft Criminal Offences Act (7279-d). Then we go to Laws 8414, 8338. It's also being suggested that today, among the budget laws to complete the issue of CBC, you know, the allocation of funds for cybersecurity, there's zero deviations. And then it's proposed to go to the Budget Code. But in order for us to be able to consider the budget today, we will have to vote in favour of the proposal so that we can continue the evening session until the finalization of budgetary issues. Until the finalization of budgetary issues. The key question we have is the Tax Code. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, I am addressing Nina Petrovna and all the deputies. Colleagues, I spoke on the Conciliation Council: in two hours, I ask everyone to submit the amendments to the Tax Code so that the committee from 2 to 4 can hold a meeting. I have a big request for all those who intend to apply, up to 2 o'clock. We hope that after lunch, when all the amendments are made and the committee's decision is made, we will be able to go to the Tax Code and then to the adoption of the budget. If we work together, colleagues, if we work systematically, we will be able to accept the budget in time. I think that's where everyone's interested in having a high-quality discussion, and we don't have to delay the process at night. I think all the factions, all the groups and all the national MPs are interested. So it will be important for us to vote on the continuation of the evening session until all budgetary issues are exhausted and it will be important for us that the tax committee can review the Tax Code at lunchtime and print more quickly so that MPs can get a table, and we can have a quality and professional discussion. That's right, colleagues, my messages are based on the logic of today. I hope that we will all be united around it. Next. A few announcements I have to read. First. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary factions of the Political Party's "Opposition Block" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call since 20 November, I report on the election of the head of the political party's deputy faction, the "Opposition Block" of the Ukrainian national deputy, Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovic, the deputy heads of the faction, the national deputies, Vilkull Alexander Juryovich and Voropejev Jurija Mikolajovic. Next. According to the statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich, the Danube Sergey Volodymyrovich and Jooffe Yulia Jaković from the political party's deputy faction "The Opposition Block" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. And a final message. And a final message. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Parliamentary Union "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I emphasize, not groups, but interfractional integration. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich and Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovovich. This is the message I was supposed to read. We are now continuing our consideration of the Criminal Offences Act. All statements will be made upon completion of the discussion. This is going to be 20 to 25 minutes. We have few questions and few rights left. So, colleagues, right-wing authors, please prepare for the discussion and invite the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Cosmiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to the rostrum. We're done on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u2	On the right 202.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u3	202. I give the floor to Oleni Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. Well, you and I have now come to the conclusion of this bill. Let me remind you, we're looking at the stage of completion of the learning. My amendment concerns the exclusion of a number of standards from this article, but I would like to make a key point here. In fact, the conclusion of the study proposed by the authors of this bill is nothing less than an actual opportunity for law enforcement officials to form in the course of knowledge, to gather in free form absolute evidence, then to reclassify it as a crime and to consider it a criminal case against people. What's more, this bill does not foresee, for example, the possibility that if I had my explanation taken away, then they were used as evidence in this exercise to even charge it in court. Thus, pressure will be exerted on people, and this is a violation of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Please identify yourself as amended by 202, distinguished colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asking you to define 202 amendments. Of course, there's a bad sense of headship and reporters, because there's some strange bits of gool in the hall. [[10:11:33]] For-56 56. Budget mode. 56. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is Mrs. Sotnik, 205.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u6	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 205 The amendment already applies directly to the material of the indictment. Again, even at this stage, we have a situation where knowledge as a key guarantee of human rights protection and the ability to prepare for judicial protection against the charges brought against the individual is also limited in this case. Because the authors decided that if it's a criminal offense, it's in principle worth giving people guarantees in accordance with the convention to a fair trial and to be able to get acquainted with the materials in any case. I'm already talking about the unrealistic periods of this experience. So at least I'd like to give people the opportunity to get acquainted with material in electronic form so that even in this limited period (there, hours, hours) they can actually prepare themselves for trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u7	Please comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u8	Yeah, I'll make it quick. Thank you, Mrs. Helena, for the constructive criticism. Everything you say is almost right, but you have to move forward. And indeed, the committee rejected this amendment because handing over electronic copies of documents at the moment is not possible from a practical point of view. It's so short and, as they say, it's understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 205. [[10:13:36]] Z-77 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 208, Semimenha. Don't insist. Captain. Oh, he insists? Please, 208th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u10	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the order is called upon to protect the defendant's rights. This is a summary of the conduct of a criminal offence. According to the draft law, such a procedure takes place when the accused pleads guilty and agrees with the indictment. But the bill does not say exactly how he may confess his guilt and whether he is aware of the consequences. Therefore, I offer my right to protect the accused so that he can confess to what he has done by using the services of the defender, that is, understanding the consequences of his actions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u11	Please identify yourself on this amendment. Please, Your Honor. I'm reminding you that this is amendment number 208. Please. [[10:14:46]] For-80 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 209, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u12	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I will now support my colleague Simeonich, and I will continue to really insist that it is impossible at all, even in this Parliament, after we say that we are protecting human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u13	Excuse me! I'm sorry, Mrs. Helena. Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to respect our colleagues and colleagues who worked on the bill. I can't hear a word you're saying. Can we discuss the budget process more quietly? Please, Mrs. Helena, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u14	Thank you. I believe that we have absolutely no right to vote in this Parliament for a bill that actually provides for the possibility of denying the right to a fair trial, without the establishment of any guarantees to officially establish that a person has done so voluntarily. Because a bill thus prescribed that a person may be detained for 72 hours, force him to explain, confess guilt. Failure to get a proper knowledge of the material and then to give up a fair trial. This is a severe violation of the Convention on Human Rights. And I think it's unacceptable in this room to vote for this format. What's more, in this particular amendment of mine, I'm also stressing that we have less rights than a person who has not been detained. Because she does not even have the opportunity to get to know the material of the case, for her case is immediately referred to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u15	May I have your comment, please? Please, Mr. Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Helena, again for the constructive criticism. But what I'm trying to say is that there was a vote in this room and a decision was made on a more unpleasant issue. Thus, two and a half years of preparation was involved in blaming the project that was being prepared today. Moreover, we took advantage of the experience of European partners and introduced all the corrections that we consider to be relevant today. No exaggeration, because all the exaggerations that we've done in other bills, along with you, by the way, the D.B.I. Act, what has it now led to? We can't put this law enforcement structure into operation for a year. We were helped by our fellow Europeans, mainly by introducing their rights and recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u17	Thank you, Your Honor, for your comment. And I'm asking you to define 209 amendments. Dear colleagues, an important bill is being voted on. It would be wonderful if colleagues would listen to the debate on the amendments and determine their attitude toward the bill. [[10:17:46]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 214, Captain. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. This is my last amendment, so I'm going to use this moment just to say, this bill, it's not for people, this bill, it's for law enforcement, and it only simplifies life to law enforcement. And by the way, the question is, is that true? Because the authors of the bill mechanically transferred crimes, minor crimes, or minor hardships, to wrongdoing. Some of the crimes of average gravity have now become serious crimes, so precisely the police have not been reduced. At the same time, the law violates a key right: the denial of the right not to testify against itself, the violation of the right to personal freedom, the violation of the right to a fair trial. I think it's impossible to accept it in this way, it's not going to solve the problems that law enforcement agencies are currently facing, it's not the challenges that we are facing, it's not to protect citizens from human rights violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u19	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u20	There's nothing to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u21	Colleagues, please identify 214 amendments. Colleagues, we're left with one correction literally, so I'm very much asking you to go back to the session room, we're going to have Mr. Cosemyakin's summary comment and we're going to go to the vote. [[10:19:22]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. In fact, the last amendment is 215. Semenha, are you insisting? Mr. Semenha doesn't insist. Colleagues, we still have Anton Heratchenko and Mr. Alekseyev, they don't insist on their amendments. I very much ask the head of the committee of profile to sum up the bill that we are currently discussing, and in two minutes we are going to vote. I very much ask all factions to return to the session room and to the workplace, stop consulting between the lines, and please return to your seats. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again under the transcript. First. Amendment 104 of the Committee is considered to be partly taken into account, namely, from the amendments proposed to article 41 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to delete the words "in the first part of the word "the authorities of the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine" from the exception." The other one. Section III, paragraph 1, of the bill states: “Listen carefully! "This law takes effect on 1 January 2020, except for paragraph 2 of section III of this second law, which takes effect from the date of publication of this law." Paragraph 2 of section II of the bill reads: "In the three-month period since the publication of this law, submit proposals for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with this law." Third. In order not to balance the bill, honourable chairman, I ask you to return to the review of the amendment number 94, which yesterday was put to the confirmation by Helen the Stotnik and did not get the required number of votes, and to vote in favour of leaving the decision of the committee regarding the consideration of Amendment 94. This amendment refers to the removal from the list of educational bodies of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine. Because they can't have criminal misconduct, only crimes can make sense. Please, Mrs. Irina, if we put it in, it'll pass. No, let NABU engage in criminal misconduct. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take up jobs. So we've just heard from the transcript of these amendments that the committee head is asking to make to the final version of the bill. Now we're going to have to vote on the next procedure. First. Back to the 94th amendment, which was approved yesterday, and due to the absence of deputies in the hall, it was not confirmed. Then, after the 94th amendment vote, you and I will now vote in favour of the bill in the version with those legal, technical and legal rights, which have been written under the transcript by the head of the committee, Andry Kozemjakin. Understand? Colleagues, please return to the session room. We start voting in 30 seconds and we start with 94 amendments. The committee's asking her to support it. Everybody hears it in this game. Thank you. Please, Mr. Cosemykin's microphone. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, before we hold two votes, I'd like to say this again. We've gone through all the amendments and we have a bill with these basic positions. First. Criminal responsibility has been humanized by reviewing the penalties for individual criminal offences. This is one of Ukraine’s important commitments to the Council of Europe. The other one. Criminal misconduct is largely based on crimes of minor gravity, which will not be punished in the form of deprivation of liberty. Third. Crimes will be investigated in separate units. both the individual units of knowledge and the officials of the law enforcement agencies. Four. Cooking for criminal misconduct will not entail criminal responsibility. And the fifth. Persons convicted of a criminal offence are found to have no criminal record after the punishment has been carried out. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Committee's decision of 7 November this year to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 7279. in the second reading and generally as a law taking into account the stenogram of suggestions. And the committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority, will perform its editorial and technical legal work. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Now it's going to be the first vote, the return to Amendment 94, and then there's going to be a vote in favour of the law itself. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready for the vote. For many months both the committee and the legal department prepared and verified this law. And so I ask everyone to vote responsibly, to participate in the vote. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs, colleagues. So, colleagues, the first vote is the return of 94 revisions. If we go back, we'll confirm it, and then we'll vote for the law. Got it, right? - logic. So please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 94th Law 7279-d. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote! Stay in the workplace. Please support the return to version 94. Vote! [[10:26:15]] For-191 We didn't make it. I'll do it again, colleagues. I'm asking you to go back to work. I'm once again proposing to go back to the 94. Anyone who supports it, please vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[10:27:00]] For 221 I'm going to ask the committee to put it again? Is that a scale adjustment? Put it back up again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! I'll put in the third time, colleagues, final. Okay, if there's no insistence on the committee, I'm putting the law in general. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (No7279-d) in the second reading and in general with technical law, my colleague. We'll uphold the law, please vote, please support. We vote, we support carefully and responsibly, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:28:08]] For 239. The law is passed. Welcome to the committee! And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. But before that, colleagues, come on, why don't we continue the meetings now? Are you guys ready? So I'm asking everyone to take jobs. Oleg, Oleg Valeriyovich, one vote is to continue the session and then give you a break. The extension of the sitting is one minute. My colleagues, once again, we didn't vote in favour of the shorter procedure for the Tax Code, so we're delaying the meetings. I ask everyone to support this proposal so that we can continue the evening session for the budget review. I ask everyone, colleagues, to vote responsibly. And I am voting on the proposal that, in accordance with part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the proposal to continue the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the consideration of all issues of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2019. Please support me, colleagues, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. We vote, please support, we vote on the extension of the evening session. [[10:29:36]] For 180. Well, that's an irresponsible position. I'll put it again after the next law. I hope the people's deputies will rethink their position. Now I'm announcing that there's been a statement from two factions for the break. And I give the floor to Oleg Valeriovich Lyashka, and after that we will move on to the next law. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday I was approached by residents of the Guards and Cherkas Novomoskov district of Dnipropetrovsk. On December 23, the Central Electoral Commission decided to elect a united territorial community. There are more than 10,000 people living there. But Peter Dustock's Block and the authorities are breaking the election because they're gonna lose it. According to a command of power, the chairman of the New Moscow Election Commission, Mamina, has for a long time broken down the board's meeting: he is not walking, he is not gathering a committee meeting, and under the full threat of the OTG election process and the ability of the citizens of Guards, Cherkassky to choose his own power, his community. The situation in many communities in Ukraine is similar. Where the President's party loses the election, and there's no other way to win it than forgeries, they're artificially taken, they're torn down. The heads and members of the BPP commission do not go, cancel the sessions of the commission and sabotage the election process of the united territorial communities in any way in support of the authorities. Because they understand that the December-month election, three months before the presidential election, is like a lamus paper for the real support of the Ukrainians of those political powers, not the forgeries that the government is planning. That's why I'm going to the Central Electoral Commission: first, to remove the head of the New Moscow Commission of Mamin, which blocks the election process in OTG (Guardian and Cherkaskie) in Dnipropetrovsty; to select a new head of the commission and to allow the inhabitants of Dnipropetrovsty and residents of all Ukraine to choose local authority to keep them warm in their homes in order to have a social sphere to repair the roads. When the authorities talk about how they support united communities, and in fact they are doing everything they can to call off elections, especially one of the "carcases" in this Parliament has filed a lawsuit to block elections in more than 30 communities, it shows that the President and the Parliamentary Coalition, and today's authorities are afraid of people, afraid that people will go and freely choose the political power and the representatives that suit their interests. And this is a call to the presidential election, that if the polls for Prashenko and his authorities were to be forged, blocked by the OTG elections, they would be doing exactly the same, only on a larger scale, across Ukraine. I call upon all the opposition democratic forces in Parliament and outside its walls to unite their efforts so as not to give Dusty and his authorities to falsify the elections, to sever the elections in the OTG and not to falsify the presidential elections. And let the presidential election win stronger, and you all see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u27	So let's move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2018" – draft Law 8414. He's all right. I'm sure everyone has studied it and they have their position. And I, my colleagues, am voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, support the simplified procedure. Vote. [[10:33:50]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Doubenk Mikhail Volodymirovich. Mr. Michael, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies, in December 2016, we passed the Act on the Provision of Large-Scale Expansion of Exports of Ukrainian Origin Goods, which provides for the creation of an Export Credit Agency. In the 2018 budget, we invested 200 million in the formation of a statutory fund for this company. Sadly, however, the company is not even registered today because there are several reasons. First. 200 million for the statutory fund are targeted, and we need to fund a number of organizational and legal cases to register the Export Credit Agency. And so in order to solve this problem, we have to make a change to the budget. In addition, our law states that we should formulate a statutory capital of the public equity company Export Credit Agency, but the law that we passed early this year, namely, Shareholders Associations, stipulates that all companies whose shares are not traded in stock exchanges are not public shareholders. That's why we're proposing in the title of CPC 1201530 in Appendix 3 to the budget for this year to remove the word "public" and redistribute the costs between the articles of the Ministry of Economic Development and trade into 112 thousand 200. So I ask you to support Bill 8414 on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the committee of profile in its conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u29	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs, Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u30	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on October 7th, reviewed the bill number 8414. The bill, in accordance with the provisions of current legislation, proposes to change the appointment of a budget programme for the development of the economy by providing for the allocation of public budget funds to form a statutory equity capital for the Export Credit Agency. In addition, it is proposed to redistribute expenditure between its budget programmes in the amount of 112.2 million dollars for the implementation of measures for the private placement of the Agency’s first release of shares within the total amount of government budget expenditure foreseen for the current year. Thus, the implementation of the bill does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources, nor does it affect the overall expenditure of the state budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council noted the need to obtain an appropriate expert conclusion from the government. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development expressed support for the bill. At the same time, according to the rules of law, the bill requires editorial and technical legal clarifications, and the proposals are made in a letter to the committee. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill on number 8414 to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law taking into account the committee's proposals made in a letter to the bill and relating to the drafting of a bill in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary legislative and technical clarifications to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Liniko Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Noisyuku gives the word. Please. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again that ministers cannot be in the Supreme Council Hall. Mr. Alexander!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u32	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the government has repeatedly simulated violent activities instead of supporting industry, economy, and exports. Look, you've spent over a year and a half creating an Export Credit Agency, a law that you and I passed in Parliament. We've allocated 200 million dollars to the Export Credit Agency this year. Maybe they're meant to support exports? No, no, not again! The government, in its meeting by secret decision, has appointed the ECA Pound to perform its task in a culinary manner that lacks experience that is not accepted by the business community, exporters, and is not supported by the relevant employers, industrialists, and entrepreneurs. What do they want to do now? They want to cut 200 million dollars because it's clear that these funds can't be channelled today to support exports, because one month is just over a year. Moreover, other articles show that industrial support is similar. This year's budget is 200 million to support industrial innovation. Maybe that's where they used this money to support Ukrainian producers? No, it's not. 50 million to support startups -- no copies were sent, just a simulation. When we say to the government that these funds must be immediately channelled, right now, to support the exhibition activity, to pay for the certification of Ukrainian producers abroad, to restore the education system in international trade, we have eliminated the only professional facility. We need to do this today without delay, not to think of reasons that prevent you from creating an Export Credit Agency. They don't hear it because they have other interests. It's not the actual export support, it's the cost they've been trying to cut down over the last month. To support the export of high-tech and higher wages, that's where the costs should be directed. Don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u33	Thank you. From the "Peter Poshenko Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u34	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Please pass the word to Michael Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my colleague Alexander Gorbunov has allowed mechanical inaccuracies. He called it "112.2 million needed" -- no: 112.2 thousand dollars -- that's absolutely the target. We need to pay the government's fee for registering the release of securities – 88,000 100 dollars; for assigning shares of an international identification number of securities to the central depository and for contracting them to serve another 14,000 100 dollars and for opening the current account to form a statutory fund – 10,000 dollars. I think it's technical stuff. Let's vote. And finally, I share Mr. Halasyuk's concern that the entire Export Credit Agency should work. We can't take this case too long. The second year, almost two, doesn't work. Well, this is a crazy thing about our state. So I ask you to vote and start this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u36	And, fellows, there's going to be a closing statement and there's going to be two more speeches. There'll be a vote in five minutes. And so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. The vote will be in 3-4 minutes. From the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u37	Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u38	I'm sorry, stop. I've got Gusak Vladimir Georgievicz on record, he won't pass on the word. He doesn't say a word. I'd like to invite you, Mr. Volodymyr. I thought you two understood each other, but it's not easy. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u39	Vladimir Gusak, faction of the Opposition Block. It's very strange to see this bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For what does the government actually tell us? That the government couldn't find 112 thousand dollars to finally start an export credit agency in Ukraine. You have to call things your names. The government is actually sabotaging both the establishment of the Export Credit Agency and generally supporting exports in Ukraine. If you speak numbers, now, in 2018, total Ukrainian exports are less than a third than in 2012-2013. And unfortunately, the left-hand side of this export continues to store goods, low-cost products. Indeed, the Supreme Council has tried to adopt a series of bills aimed at any support for export, particularly technology, to create an Export Credit Agency. But what do we see now? The government is actually sabotaging it. And now there are even, well, elements of a joke that such a bill of 112 thousand dollars should be voted in the Supreme Council. The faction and the opposition block political party insists on real support for the Ukrainian economy and Ukrainian exports. And we're not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u40	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm also going to ask the committee to mobilize the deputies. Take up jobs, please. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 (No. 8414) on the basis of the Committee's proposals and in general taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[10:46:05]] For 176 176. I'll put it back once, but it's too big a breakup. I would like to vote in favour of the return to the draft Law 8414. If we don't come back, he'll be rejected. So whoever supports the return, please vote. Please. [[10:46:39]] For-173 173. The decision is not taken. Law 8414 was rejected. We've got the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u41	Take your time. A rush won't do you any good. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts on the restoration of the activities of the State Shareholders Association BlackMornaftogaz (8338). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:47:26]] For-152. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! This is not the first time we've been looking at the question of the restoration of the Black Mornaphtegas activity. I would like to remind you that before Russia occupied part of Ukraine, this society was one of the largest companies in the fuel and energy complex, which had extracted about 2 billion cubic metres of gas on the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf. However, as a result of the annexation, BlackMornaftogaz lost access to most of its ancestry and extractive assets. However, on 13 March of this year, Parliament passed Act No. 2320 aimed at the preservation of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society, which prevents the bankruptcy of this association, as well as the continuation of the Black Mornaftegasus special licenses for the use of nadrama, which is a composite evidence base in international courts against Russia. At the same time, the law did not ensure the restoration of the company’s activities, since the suspension of executive conduct was not possible. The proposal was contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. There is currently no way to ensure the normal functioning of BlackMornaphtogas. There are problems in the company’s arrangement for rentals of premises, in its activities in the areas on which they are located. the occupied territory of Ukraine. In addition, however, natural gas production is extremely difficult because of the supply of goods, jobs, and services. refuse to cooperate with a company that does not have accounts. In view of this, the timely and unbreakable gas supply of the Herson district is at stake. In view of the above, Bill 8338 was prepared to restore the production of the company. Dunham.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u43	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u44	The project proposes to establish that during the period of Ukraine's temporary occupation, BlackMornaftogaz opens up the current account with a special use regime for accounting for production activities, activities to protect property rights in courts, and repayment of debt to creditors and budgets. Such an account will be opened in an authorized bank designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the offer of NAC Naftogaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u45	Please, 30 seconds more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u46	Restoring the full production of BlackMornaftegasus will contribute to ensuring Ukraine's energy security and independence, especially in the Hersonian region, which applies to the population of the genetic area. In view of this, I ask you to consolidate and support this bill, it is very small and aimed at concrete action, on the basis of it and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u47	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the PEC Committee of Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the representative of the President has already explained to you the substance of the proposed bill. So, actually, you and I solved part of the Black Mornaphtogas problem in March. We gave them the opportunity to use their licenses. Nevertheless, it is the creditor’s debt that is currently effectively blocking the business’s business activity. With licenses, they can't use their funds to, well, do some mining work. To date, their debt as evidenced by court decisions is 500 million dollars. And in fact, it grows every day because of the amount of pennies and fines. In accordance with this bill, we propose to set up a special account regime that clearly shows where money is going to go, to pay off debts, and to do business so that the enterprise can resume its business. In fact, the Committee on Fuel and Energy has repeatedly considered this issue, and on June 21, 2018, we decided to support the bill on a basis and as a whole. I very much ask everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. In fact, on the committee, we have repeatedly considered bills that need to be settled on the Black Mornaphtogas, and I think this bill should also be supported. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u51	From the Peter Dust Block of Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u52	I'll give the protein a word. It's white.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u53	Belkova, please. Olga Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue to inform you that today, in fact, everyone who is concerned about what property is in this enterprise, only they have today a full-scale gas plant complex that can't be sold out, sold out and done with it in fact. Those who doubt that we make wrong decisions. And the crane ship Titan, which is in Mexico, is standing on a mill, and there's nothing you can actually do about it. So once again, there are no problems in this bill. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u55	From the "Fatherland" faction Shkrum passes the word Rybchin for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u56	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. It's a very important bill. And the fight for BlackMornaftogaz assets, as well as our Crimean assets, which have been annexed by Russia, have been going on for the second year. A bill was passed, part of which was promised by the President, and something displeased the President. We've introduced legislation and this bill needs to be adopted because we're going to help the company fight in international courts for the Ukrainian Crimea. Nor should we forget the Ukrainian people who are now suffering from high tariffs. We don't have to forget that, and we see that subsidies are falling, that subsidies are getting worse, that people are getting divorced to take these subsidies, that people are getting their children out of their apartments to get subsidies. There is no support for energy conservation as it should be. The energy efficiency fund that we voted on in this Supreme Council all year and a half ago, hasn't been created yet. By the way, now we can also make accusations to our European partners, why they don't give representatives to this fund and people don't use money to lower their payments. We're together. The six factions and the political forces signed a decree on a moratorium on gas prices, which is not being considered in the committee. The committee hasn't been meeting for a month, and that's a blockage. That's why we need to support the issue of BlackMornaftegazu, because this will allow the Ukrainian company to defend Ukrainian interests in the courts. Yet we should not forget the Ukrainian people who are currently suffering from high wages and high energy prices during the winter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u57	Thank you. Welcome to the address of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please. And, colleagues, if you'll come into the hall, there'll be a vote in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the representatives of those factions of the majority and the opposition who rightly stated that this is an extremely important law. And I believe that he will unite the session hall. Why do we now have to vote on it today? Because in fact our government is suppressing the deadlines for filing lawsuits against the aggressor country, which has acquired property, including in the occupied, annexed Crimea. And so I'm asking everyone to support this bill, which will allow the tools of the Ukrainian government to be strengthened for the preparation of lawsuits against the aggressor country, which simply robbed Ukraine, including in the context of "Cornomornaphtogas." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u59	Colleagues, in one minute we're moving on to making a decision. One minute, Irina Lucenko. Colleagues, in a minute, the vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! I would very much like us to support this bill. In my presentation, I noted that 2 billion cubic metres of gas was extracted on the shelf of the Azov and Black Seas by this enterprise. We renewed their special licenses and licenses by the previous bill in March, allowing international courts to present to the Russian Federation the costs of the unearned proceeds, the damaged property, the illegal use by Russia of our genealogy and the extraction of that Ukrainian gas that Ukrainian citizens are so in need of, not only of the opposition factions but also of the factions of most people. And I address the Ukrainian people. This year, twice as much money will be spent on energy efficiency by the government of the country, which will enable us to return the shelf of the Azov and Black Seas, which will allow more Ukrainian gas to be extracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u61	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u62	give the population of Ukraine the opportunity to recover its occupied Crimea, annexed Crimea, return its ancestry, recover Ukrainian gas and lose our tariffs because of energy efficiency and subsidies that support Ukrainian citizens. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u63	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please return to the hall and prepare for the vote. The discussion is over, we move on to the decision-making process. You're ready, aren't you? Heads of factions, please invite MPs. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to restore the activities of the Black Seanaftegas State Shareholder Association (No. 8338) on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Voting, voting, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:00:15]] For 206 I, my colleagues, will return. But every time you're late for the vote, we'll be ashamed of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I say, in three minutes, in five minutes, when there is a vote, please be in the hall at that time. I ask all of you in the private beds to return to the hall. Let me show you through the factions. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 60, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 14, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 12, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 3, non-fractional – 20. Colleagues, let's mobilize, now I'm going to make an offer to come back, and I'm asking everyone to be in the voting room. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law No. 8338. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:01:44]] For 212 Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again, if there are no votes -- now they're coming out of the Chamber of Deputies -- if there are no votes, the law will be rejected. The law, which has been awaited for several months, which is critical, can only be rejected because there is no discipline. So I'm putting the vote again, and I'm asking you to take the seats during the vote. All right. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 8338. Eugene, back up. Support me, Mr. Eugene. So I would like to vote in favour of the return to the draft Law 8338. Colleagues, every vote, I'm responsible for asking everyone to vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. Ira, take part in the vote, it'll be wise. Take part in the vote. Do you have a card next to you? Please. So please prepare for everyone, I'm voting for the proposal to go back to draft Law 8338. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. I ask everyone to vote in a responsible manner. [[11:04:18]] For 222 I see. But I asked to be in my seats during the vote. So, colleagues, four votes. Please prepare, I'll put it back. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending some of the legislative acts to restore the activities of the National Shareholders Association "Blackmorenaftogaz" (8338). Each voice, the colleagues, is of great importance. All right, everybody, please stand by. To return. We're voting carefully! Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:05:23]] For 224 Two votes. So, colleagues. One MP, two deputies! Take up jobs. Prepared. We missed you in the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8338. And I'm asking everyone to vote now, and I'm asking you to vote for the return. Careful, responsible! We vote in favour of a return to the law. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! [[11:06:20]] For 222 According to factions, show by factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 109, "National Front" – 71, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 2, "Pradical Party – 1, "Papačina" – 10, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party "Resurrection" – 1, non-fractional – 25. Colleagues, me. Please, 30 seconds. Please invite me to the hall! 30 seconds, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! It's from here. Our people's self-help deputies are asking that we are granting permission to alienate property. I want to explain to make sure they hear, well, how about all the factions. Look, in the previous bill, which was promised in part by the President, we gave permission, the right to alienate property by January 1st, 19th. What's that supposed to mean? (I'll get to the bottom of this.) I mean, there's an accident in Mexico, and it's sitting on a track, a boat. This ship we want to transfer to the statutory capital of the BlackMornaftegaz subsidiary. "Blackmorenephthegas" - "Gasinvest". Such alienation takes place under the very complex procedure of the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for 20 points, and foresees: it is subject to mandatory agreement, the project, all interested authorities, as well as Minfin, Mintot, all relevant ministries. It's not alienation, it's not sales, it's the transfer of this ship that's in the shallows.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u65	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u66	a daughter company that has the opportunity to have open accounts, to repair it, to pick it up from the mill, and to take it to Ukraine. This is done to ensure that that ship in Mexico is not taken for the loan debt that arose before the annexation of Crimea before that. Accordingly, BlackMornaftegas cannot be accounted for; it has 500 million closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u67	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. I'm going to put the vote on the return vote again, given the weight of this law. I'm asking you to take your seats. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to restore the activities of BlackMornaftogas (8338). Please take part in the vote, and I ask everyone to vote. Please vote, please support, vote. Please be supportive. [[11:09:56]] For the 220. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm going to put the closing times, then you talk on air, how many times do I put on return? I'm doing this because of your undisciplinedness, because of your irresponsibility. I'll do it again, but please come in and take your jobs. So take up jobs. So I'm going to put a final vote on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending some of the legislative acts on the renewal of Black Mornaphtogaz (No. 8338), and every vote will now be decisive. I therefore ask everyone to vote carefully. Please vote and please support everyone. And once again, especially for you in that corner, every voice is going to be huge. Denisenko! Representative of the government, vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:11:29]] For 233 We're back, colleagues. And I put draft Law 8338 to the vote as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:11:56]] For 236 The law is passed. It took half an hour for everyone to vote, colleagues! The next law is very short, colleagues. I remind you, this is the CLTC Law on Financing for Cyber Security of the Central Electoral Commission. If we don't accept it today, they won't be able to do the shopping. I want to remind you, there's no budget cuts, it's a flip from one article to another. And now I'm announcing a change to the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix 3 to the State Budget Act 2018 (No. 8496). And I invite you to the report is the second reading, the head of the Committee on Budgets, Alexander Vladimirovich. I remind you, there's a minimum right here, so the vote will be quick. Stay where you are, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u68	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council adopted on 18 October a bill amending the State Budget Act 2018 under registration number 8496. The bill provides for the settlement of budgetary arrangements for the protection of the information resources of the Central Electoral Commission and the preparation for the presidential elections of Ukraine for the Ukrainian National Deputies. In preparing the bill for second reading to the Committee on Budget Affairs, there were 10 proposals made by national deputies, which tend to be editorial in nature and bring the bill into line with the requirements of the legislative technique. The Budget Committee at its November 7th meeting reviewed the proposals and supported all proposals, one in part. Number one, two, three, four, five, seven, eight, nine and ten are counted. Partial amendment number 6 is taken into account, which proposes to specify the direction of the funds redistributed in the bill. On the basis of the draft bill, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018, Registration No. 8496, to be adopted on second reading and as a whole as the Final Drafting Act in the comparative table to the bill. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u69	Colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Is the application rejected? Colleagues, I'm sorry, there's one remedy that's been rejected. I'd like to give you my word for calling Danchenkov's appeal. During this time, I ask everyone to come into the hall. Turn on Danchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, surely this bill needs to be voted in favour, because the issue of cybersecurity is also very important for the CLTC. I have a huge question about the past composition of the CLTC, why they took so long and didn't do anything, but that's another question. Edit No. 6 provides a clear indication of the amount that will go to cybersecurity. It's very important to control the cost of cybersecurity so that it's not spent on other issues. Of the amount of 49,660,000 dollars, 37 million dollars, 390,000 dollars should be directed to ensure cybersecurity of the national election system according to budgetary assignments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u71	Don't you insist on voting your turn? What's the number? [[B in m in s a l in]] Six is right. So, fellows, first I'm putting to the vote number six, which was submitted by the Danish National MP, which is partially counted. He insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. It's for editing. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:16:37]] For-157. It was the only amendment that made the decision of the incomplete committee. We've considered it. Now we're going to make decisions by law and I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 (No.8496) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:17:40]] For 217 Colleagues, this is a question that applies to everyone. The Central Election Commission will not be able to modernize its work and ensure cybersecurity from Russia's aggressor state, which will no doubt interfere with our elections. I'm asking you to support everyone. Now I'm going to put everyone back on the job, please. Colleagues, this is a responsible, important question. I ask everyone to be seated. So I'm voting on the proposal. So please, everyone, get ready. And I'm voting for the first proposal to go back to draft Law 8496 is cybersecurity and renewal of the technical security of the CIA that we've chosen, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote in favour of the return and to support this proposal. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:19:14]] For 260 We're back. And I'm voting on draft Law 8496 in second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's vote, let's not split up. I'll re-establish the job. After this vote, I'm going to set up a sequel. So be in the workplace. [[11:19:42]] For 253 The law is passed. Thank you all for the position of responsibility. My colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that the proposal is that we continue the evening session until the end of the budget review. Colleagues, we plan to be able to do this by 8-9 p.m. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Please support everyone, be in position. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of all budget issues. This is the adoption of the budget. And I ask everyone to support and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. I'm asking you to support everyone. Every voice matters. Vote! Please back up! Please, colleagues, support everyone, it's a common interest that we can work together. [[11:20:46]] For 217 A few votes. Please, colleagues, I'm addressing everyone right now. This is our common position. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please support. I'm asking for non-faulty ones. I'm asking you, colleagues, everyone in the room, back up. It won't be until nightfall. We would if we voted. If we voted in favour of the Tax Code, we could be. It's a work day to get in. We need some time. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now, come into the hall. And I'm once again putting a motion to vote so that we can continue the evening session to address all of the issues of Ukraine's budget. Please, colleagues, support and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote! [[11:22:08]] For 223 No, colleagues. I've put it twice, I'll put it three more times. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. 3 votes, colleagues, you know, budget adoption today is a question for the whole country, it's not a coalition issue. This is a question for the whole country. We'll all be responsible if we can't ensure socio-economic stability. We only ask one -- give me two more hours to review the budget. It's not an obstacle to anyone, it's the country's path and the country's support. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to be in position during the vote. I played as members of the coalition held discussions during this vote. So please take your seats. And I'm re-voting the proposal to continue the evening session to address all budget issues. And I ask everyone to stand and vote during this vote. Colleagues, please support both non-fractional and all national deputies. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Hold on, we're voting! Each voice matters, so vote responsibly. Vote! Let's support it! We vote, colleagues, every vote, every vote. [[11:23:45]] For 226 Decision taken, colleagues. Although it remains a mystery to me, why the number of coalitions did not vote. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that we have a next one. Colleagues, pay attention! The following is the Codex Budget for Ukraine. But the table has to come literally in 10 to 15 minutes. The following are laws. And I, with your permission, would like to move on to the next law until they have a table. Our next law is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws in view of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematographers. There's only a few rights here, colleagues. And while they're preparing the table. 8251. And I invite the head of the committee of the Princely Mikol Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on October 3, 2018, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine in connection with the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration No. 8251). I would like to remind you that the bill is designed to introduce the legal principles of film commissions and to harmonize the board of other issues related to the Ukrainian Act of 2017 on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. The bill introduced 18 amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies: 5 were rejected, 1 was adopted entirely, and the other 12 were considered partially and editorially by the Committee. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 8251 as drafted by the Committee in its second reading and in general and to entrust the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, together with the Chief Legal Authority, with the task of carrying out its technical legal work and preparation for signature. I would like the deputies to support the committee's recommendation. And I want to say that we have been approached by the Bukovin Film Commission, the Ternopil Film Commission, the Zakartat Film Commission, the Kyiv Film Commission, the Lviv Film Commission, the Crown of Carpathian Film Festival, the Johno-Frankiv Film Commission, the Film Industry Association of Ukraine and many other film associations and film commissions from all over Ukraine, asking to support this bill, which is very important for the development of film production in the regions. Because our cities, our regions want to support the film process, there are a lot of talented people. Our Act on State Support for Cinematography provides for the possibility of local authorities participating in local self-government in support of this film process. We've been working on this bill for a long time. And I very much ask you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u73	So, colleagues, I'm now inviting the right-wing authors to talk. Right is not much. I'm going to read the changes that have been rejected. 14th. 14th is rejected. Don't insist. 15th is rejected. 15th. Don't insist. 16th is negative. Don't insist. Please, 16th, Scorch. And the next one's gonna be Pottery, 17th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u74	Dear Mikola Leonidovich, I have the next question. My revision was about what, I think we need to put a fuse in order for Odessa's film studio to change its profile. The thing is, Odessa's film studio, and it's covered in the Act on Cinematography about Odessa's film studio, is, unfortunately, an object for unscrupulous builders. And Odessa’s motion picture, in addition to being a film studio that is a symbol of our cinematography, is an object that attracts, let’s say, various parts. What are some of the safeguards for re-profileing a given film studio, if any? I personally think that we should support this approach, if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u75	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u76	I thank you so much for that question. The law provides that the necessary condition for the privatization of the state cinema, as well as the shares, of the shares of other corporate rights belonging to the State of any other cinematudio, is to preserve the main objective of such cinema for 20 years from the date of completion of privatization. The state film studio cannot change the status of the film subject as a result of privatization. So, just so you know, when it comes to the Odessa Film Studio, because the law covers all the regions of Ukraine, the Odessa Film Studio does not belong, the Odessa Film Studio belongs only to a brand, and those who want to rob this land in the form that it seems to be a national film studio, as it was in Kiev, are speaking out against this law. Rayders, oligarchs, the locals are sabotaging this law. It's the law that forbids you from building a film studio and doing anything with it except making a movie for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Mr. Skork, are you insisting on the vote? No, it's not. Okay. On the 17th right, I give the word to Goncharenkov. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the very right law that I would like to support if there were not one "but" in "Transitional positions" this point on the privatization of the Odessa Film Studio. Of course, we want this to be the development of film production, and we understand that this can be done on the basis of a private owner. It's perfectly normal. What's more, we know that there are plans to develop a film studio, and we fully support it. But unfortunately, the point that the honourable chairman of the committee has just announced doesn't give us any confidence that all of the cinema's buildings will stay behind the film studio, that it won't be passed under construction, and that's 10 acres of land on the French Boulevard. Yes, the land does not belong to the Odessa Film Studio, but all buildings and buildings belong to the Odessa Film Studio. And we know very well that buildings and buildings are top priority, that the owner of buildings and buildings is the primary priority in obtaining land from local authorities. So I think it's a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u79	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u80	Thank you. So I think that the decision to privatize Odessa Film Studios, which, in principle, can be absolutely normal if first demonstrated by the city of Odessa, that the entire territory will be preserved, that there will be saved unique funds that are, including unique buildings. Just to say that there's a goal left, well, you can do it in one office, and then there'll also be a kind of abandoned target. So I don't think you can do that in that way. And so if.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u81	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u82	Dear colleague Alexei, there is no land in the Odessa Film Studio. Moreover, this film studio does not pay for this land. And the city could have broken this deal a long time ago. There are several old houses there, but the city doesn't. Because people who want to use an undefined status have already planned to build it instead of investing in it. We saw how we built the territory of the Kyiv Film Studio. The law expressly forbids doing so. The law does not allow this to happen. That's why they removed this artificial, privatization thing. The ban on the privatization of the Odessa Film Studios by a separate law, which has long since ceased to be valid, because this paragraph applied to the adoption of the Act on Cinematography, which we have adopted, we only fix the fact. But the builders and those who want to steal the Odessa land and kill the Odessa movie pedal this law to build this territory. The law forbids 20 years of changing any profile, anything to alienate: particles, rights, shares, anything. Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'll bet you 17 votes. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Mr. Mikola gave a comprehensive explanation on this point. [[11:32:33]] For 133 The decision is not made. 18th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've completed our review of the rights and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Look, I have, colleagues, a general request. It's a concept of supporting Ukrainian cinema. And let us make sure that the land issues do not separate us, and we are able to support the Ukrainian film. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, we're moving on to making a decision. And I want to say that they're going to be handing out a table of the budget code in just a few minutes, and if it's given out in the hall, we can go over the budget code. Now I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, and we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask the Supreme Council's apparatus, as soon as the tables come, to distribute them immediately. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the Ukrainian film and I'm asking you to support the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws in connection with the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No.8251) in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:34:21]] For 176 The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 48, People's Front – 69, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 2, Parenthood – 7. Colleagues, you can find a compromise position between you now. Come here straight to the head of the committee. Goncharenko! Let's find a compromise offer. Come here, I'll tell you the third time. Come on, find a compromise offer. Mr. Mikola, Mr. Alexei, find a compromise position to put us to the vote. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm sure we'll find a compromise position. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up your jobs. I am sure that the author of the amendment and the chairman of the committee will find a compromise formulation, we will sound it, and it will unite the hall. Just put it right. Help those who can correctly formulate us so that we have a high level of protection. So that no builders can take possession of the land that is and that we can protect the property of the state. As long as they're in line, Andrew Lozov, please. Andrew Lozov, one minute. And please come into the hall. Now they're forming a compromise position. Please, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u83	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Notice, dear colleagues, what is going on. We're going to have the state budget contracts now. UA, what's the second one in place. in the Russian Federation, which has been fighting with us for almost five years now against Ukraine, and we are funding them for the budget. In this year's budget, 12 million dollars in film time. No one's seen any footage taken. The Longzhenka cinema, just before the anniversary of his birthday, which is a special cynicism: the film theater of the name of our great Ukrainian. Kinosudio Odessa is trying to privatize and seize, instead of working for the state, as in Rome for example, Kinosudia Fellini, and we should do the same. We have talented people, but the state policy is what it is now, it does not protect Ukrainian movies, it protects interests, including the enemy through the companyFILM. U.S.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u84	So the author of the amendment and the head of the committee seem to have formulated a compromise position. I'm asking you to let Mikola Knieżicki make her sound and we'll move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please speak, Mr. Mikolo, and Mr. Alexi will confirm this. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u85	Thank you. We've found a compromise, a compromise is that the law that says that there is a preservation of the main purpose of this cinematic activity for 20 years from the date of completion of privatization, we're complementing, with a complete ban on the alienation of immovable property and the territories that are in the recognition of the cinema at the time of the adoption of this law over these 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u86	Do you confirm? It's okay. Our colleagues, therefore, were able to unify the hall. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats, it's important that we find understanding on such important matters in the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 8251) in the second reading and in general with the amendment by the head of the committee of Mikola Knieżicky under the transcript approved by the author of the amendment of Alexei Honcharenko, with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Carefully and responsibly, we vote, colleagues, we support the Ukrainian film. [[11:39:12]] For 205 Back, I forgot to come back. There will be a return and then a vote. So, colleagues, I'm betting, colleagues, on a return. All right, colleagues, say another. The committee head! So I'm putting the first vote on the return for the return. I ask you to vote in favour of returning to draft Law 8251. Please vote and support the return to the law. Vote, please support, vote. [[11:40:11]] For the 220. 220. So, colleagues, the general proposal is re-reading the second reading. All right, one more time, I'll put it in. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So the colleagues, the emotions, they got down. I'll put it back on again, if there are no votes, we'll move on to the second reading proposal. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready? Yes. So each voice, we lacked a few votes. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (8251). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to go back to the law. Please vote responsibly, we lacked literally a few votes. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[11:43:27]] For-191 Colleagues, the next offer is for re-reading. Let us unite around this proposal. And if we have discussions that, unfortunately, have not been able to decide before that, the proposal to send to the committee for a second reading. Come on, colleagues, we'll all be together around it. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws should be reinstated by the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (8251) to return to the Committee for a second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:21]] For 234 234, decision taken, colleagues. And I want to report that there's already a table in the hall of the draft law amending the budget code. Fresh, fresh, not hard, there is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, what is the problem? The reporter will now perform, and then the changes will be after the break. What is the problem, fellow workers? Now there'll be reports, and then we'll go straight. So, colleagues, I want to stress once again that we are now going to the budget code of Ukraine. Then, I would like to point out: I would like to request all the deputies by the second hour to submit all the amendments to the Tax Code. Then I call on the Tax Policy Committee to hold a committee for lunch, from 2 to 4 p.m. so that we can go to the Tax Code after lunch, and then the budget. Under the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (9084), a report is invited. Ishcheikin is invited to the report. And I ask, colleagues, all right-wing authors to prepare for work and discussion. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u87	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues prepared for consideration in the second reading of Bill 9084, dealing with 185 comprehensive proposals by national deputies, of which 60 are included. While taking into account that the proposed changes to the Budget Code are directly related to the indicators of the draft State Budget Act 2019, the members of the Committee were primarily guided by a consistent and balanced position. Among the issues proposed for the second reading of the bill are the following: the establishment of features for providing State support to children with special needs and social integration of veterans; the purpose of targeting part of the rent for special use of forest resources to protect and protect forests; the expansion of the possibilities for local external borrowings by establishing appropriate mandates separately for urban and district budgets; the alignment of the rules of individual laws with the provisions of the bill to ensure implementation of the State budget indicators over the following year; and the strengthening of parliamentary control over the effective use of budgetary resources by allowing the Court of Auditors to audit local budgets for the implementation of delegated powers, taking into account the deepening of decentralization processes in various spheres of social life. As a result of the review, it is proposed to adopt the following decision: recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 9084 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law taking into account supported proposals in the final edition, as set out in the committee's comparative table to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u88	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're going to look at the rights. What we're going to do is we're going to take a break, and we're going to continue the discussion after the break, so we can do it. So, colleagues, do you have a chart? You have a chart. Camera, I'm asking you to give me a table at that end of the room. Now we're going to look at literally 2-3 revisions and there's going to be a break, distributed to everyone, colleagues. Let's go, colleagues, 1 row, Semenha, Semenha. Don't insist. Two o'clock, Levenchenko. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u89	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and not head of the unknown, some banana republic! I will read to you article 117 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "Passions for the People's Deputies to Bills Prepared for Second Reading": Paragraph 1. The draft, prepared for second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be made available to the National Deputies no later than ten days before the day of the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council." When did you say 10 minutes? Is there a difference between 10 days and 10 minutes?Oh, my God! Well, can you please stop turning this Supreme Council into an even bigger mess and a terrarium than it is? Excuse me, is this the Supreme Council of a 40 million-dollar country or is it some sort of banana-republika, unknown on another continent? Can you please stop violating the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u90	Are you insisting on the amendment? I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. She was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:50:22]] For-75 The decision is not made. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. He insists. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u91	I see, Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Parubi Andrey knows nothing about the existence of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if he knows, right now on live throughout the country, he's refusing to do it and he's violating it directly across the country. Well you can, now there's nine minutes left before the break, now you can quietly announce this break already, for half an hour, to at least work on these amendments. Well, it's impossible to process them at all right now. What is it? I don't understand. Are we looking at some secondary document for one paragraph? We are looking at the changes to the budget code as fundamental. There are 100 pages of amendments, and that's how you feel about it right now. What's that all about? This amendment of mine refers to removing the introduction of this Code of Budgets — an absolute nonsense that allows the district councils to take their own loans into their own responsibilities and to impose on them the property of the district communities. This is a further way to balance government finances and to actually federalize.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Kostya.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The question of borrowing from the district councils. They were in the first edition of this bill and were generally supported. And I would like to point out that it's about being able to work with financial institutions that will allow for an appropriate small percentage of external borrowing and to resolve the issues urgently, let's say, by building roads. And if cities were able to take this loan, then district councils, if they had the opportunity, would be able to speed up the work and accordingly increase the implementation of infrastructure projects and many others. This is a perfectly normal norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u94	Thank you. I'm putting a vote on the amendment number. What was the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u95	There was a sixth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u96	Six, six right, yes, six right of the People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, I ask you to vote. [[11:53:33]] For-61 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to respond to the criticism that's coming. I would like to point out that I will not answer the images or even the homage of the Conciliation Council or the Hall. I'm not going to go down to this level, and I'm not even going to comment. But at the same time, I accept this position that MPs need to learn more about the rights. We have a break from 12:30 P.M. to 12:30 P.M. I find it totally acceptable to announce a break from 11:55 to 12:25. And, colleagues, I'm telling everyone my decision: a five-minute break is coming up and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall for a five-minute break. I would like to ask the right-wing authors of the time, although there is not much of it, to get to know the rights in more detail. At 12:25, we will continue our consideration of the rights. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. It's a 30-minute break until 12:25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u97	So the colleagues, the time spent for the break, is over. I ask that you return to the Hall for further consideration of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (9084). Let me remind you, we're on line six. I'm going to call the adjustments that are rejected. Who will insist on a right that is not rejected by raising his hand? So next, 10th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 15th. 16th. Don't insist. I can't see you. Please, Lechchenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u98	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. I would like to point out that we need to remove from this bill a completely wrong innovation on the possibility, allowing district councils to borrow externally and provide local guarantees, in fact, to force community property. This is a huge risk for so many reasons. First of all, it's a straight path to balancing government finances, when in the end it's going to be a state to pull them out when they get too much. But the state will not be able to have an immediate impact on the planning of these processes, first. And secondly, it's a de facto federalization in terms of government finances, because certain regions are given the opportunity to borrow from the outside. This is totally unacceptable. I would like to stress the need to remove this from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u99	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the 16th People's Deputies of Lewchenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:31:28]] For-22. The decision is not made. 17th, insists Levchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u100	Lewchenko, "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. Well, first of all, I would like to remind all of our television audiences, the radio audiences, all of the Ukrainians who are currently following the Supreme Council of Ukraine meetings, that the budgetary process is in total violation of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, on the other hand. All, unfortunately, all the years of this call every time there is a budget process in violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, now 117 articles are being directly violated. It's about the 17th Amendment. Part six does not need the proposed changes because, firstly, a valid norm involves first making a decision about lending and then its size and species, unlike the proposed changes that rule out the decision-making phase. Secondly, I would suggest that we remove the standard for allowing district councils to take out external loans directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u101	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote of the 17th People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:32:55]] For-34 The decision is not made. The 19th insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u102	Lewchenko, "Freedom", 223 district, city of Kiev. First of all, I remind the chairman of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 117, part one, “The draft, prepared for second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents, shall be submitted to the People's Deputy no later than 10 days before the day of consideration of the bill.” And we were given the appropriate materials 10 minutes before we started considering the bill. This is absolutely unacceptable in violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." When it comes to the amendment, it goes beyond the absolute absurd norm, the absolute non-state norm that is proposed now in the Code of Budgets, the ability of district councils to borrow externally and to provide local guarantees, i.e. to impose essentially property, valuable district property, and district communities. For example, the language may be a district hospital, yes, no one will think about setting up a district hospital. This is likely to take into account what local deputies are on some councils. So I insist that this rule be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u103	I put to the vote the amendment of the 19 People's Deputies of Lechchenk. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:34:30]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 20th. Lechchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u104	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I stress the need to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. And I'm going to focus on this need all the time. Because this is the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm wondering, how can national MPs demand citizens without a mandate to abide by the laws if national MPs don't follow most of the laws themselves? Here, for example, very often, in this room, when there were protests by people on Euronomists, yes, there were very often criticisms by people that they were blocking something, that some MP there seemed to have beaten something up, pulled a little bit, there were very angry speeches from the rostrum about how, you see, the laws don't follow. And most of the laws don't, do they? I therefore stress the need to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, first. And secondly, the next time I stress the need to remove from this bill the crazy rule that district councils are allowed to borrow externally under local property.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u105	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[12:36:05]] For-33 Correction rejected. Mr. Levchenko, that was the 12th amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u106	20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u107	20th, I'm sorry. I only joined in the discussion. So your next 22nd. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u108	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. On the other hand, I am already addressing the head of the Supreme Council, and I am already asking Ms. Irina Heratchenko to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which states that the materials were to be distributed to the National Deputies in 10 days. I understand that we have entered into the debate, but I believe it is a principle to insist that, given the gross violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we should stop and continue this consideration only after the violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been removed. As far as I'm concerned, it's an amendment that is all the more relevant to excluding from the bill the rules on the extension to the district for valid budgetary principles of external borrowing and the granting of local guarantees. Not in today’s conditions, and not only in today’s conditions, but especially in a warring country threatened with secessionism, allowing district councils to borrow locally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u109	Please be determined by 22 revisions. [[12:37:43]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. We continue to follow the Rules of All Amendments. And the 23rd amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Given that this is in this block now or not the last amendment that concerns district councils, I would like to stress separately the absurdity of this norm. Now the District Councils control a very important, strategic, I'd even say, property, and even it's strategic not only for a particular area, but for a particular region, in general, for whole parts of our nation, and perhaps even in some cases for the whole state as such. It is proposed by this Code of Budgets, amendments to the Code of Budgets, allowing the district councils to borrow externally. Well, for example, this could be a very important district hospital, yes, and not only. Clearly, common sense is that this is a completely stupid idea. It is motivated by what needs to be done to build roads and purposefully transfer from the central budget to road construction sites, as is done in all normal developed countries, rather than from such a fiscal federalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u111	Guys, I'm asking you to make 23 adjustments. [[12:39:16]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. Next up is Lechchenka, 25th. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u114	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. One of the proposals of the bill is that it is prohibited to grant State guarantees to a host subject who has a long-term debt for a guaranteed State or a territorial community loan, loan, or other debt, repayment of an earlier loan, loan to a bank, and government budget. This is a completely wrong approach for a number of reasons. First of all, there are different values, there are different degrees of debt, yes. It may not be too important, but it still is. However, in doing so, it is necessary to obtain an immediate loan for a much more important project or for a much more important activity. Therefore, it is not possible to prohibit additional debt under, by the way, guarantees are additional if there is already outstanding debt. What's more, if you're talking about, for example, covering up an old debt. Now the state of Ukraine is taking on additional debts to cover its old debts? He's taking it. So why can't that be the same logic?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u115	Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[12:40:48]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. Next up, National Deputy Levchenko, 29th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u116	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiv City. Again, the question is about enabling the district councils to borrow externally. You know, we've been in this session room for the past four years from all the representatives of the so-called coalition, we're constantly hearing that they're barely doing what they can to save the state finances, so there's no balance, how it's all bad, that everything in the world needs to be cut down and all the social costs, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, these are all the fairy tales we hear. But at the same time, these same people are offering to put in place a direct mechanism, the possibility of balancing the state budget, because in the end, even if the district council is going to impose an important strategic property, even if it eventually sells it, steals it, privatizes it, the guilty state is still going to have to cover it anyway. That is why such things are unacceptable. I urge them to remove these changes from the budget code as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u117	I'd like to make 29 adjustments. [[12:42:09]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. I missed the 28th amendment that Simeoniah insists on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u118	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, adopted on the first reading of the bill, suggests that the district councils be empowered to carry out local external borrowings at the level of the city councils and provide local guarantees to ensure the full or partial fulfilment of the debt obligations of municipal owners. Self-help has made a number of proposals to exclude these innovations from the text of the bill, given that in fact the district councils will be able to borrow foreign loans to then borrow this money from the corresponding utilities. And in the event of debt on the part of these operators, it is the responsibility of a fraud that has given its own assurance of the fulfilment of such obligations. But in the event of debt, when an area is not able to pay off the district budget debt, the debt can be restructured and it can become, not district, but state debt. We are convinced that such an offer is unacceptable, that such an offer cannot be granted to the district councils. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u119	Please identify the 28 amendments. [[12:43:32]] For-39 The correction is being rejected. The next is 30 revisions. Lechenko insists? Are you insisting, Levchenka? Please, Lechchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u120	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'm the only one who points out that this is the 31st amendment. The 30th amendment is Singerkowski, it's not Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u121	I'm sorry, the 31st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u122	31 the amendment refers to what the bill proposes to give the Ministry of Energy, in fact, the power to approve the essential conditions of the energy service contract, what concerns, in fact, renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. And it's completely wrong, they're suggesting that the Ministry of Finance take it down. This is totally useless because the exclusion of the Ministry of Finance from the process of contractual obligations in the field of energy services contradicts basic logic, as one of the main issues of such contracts is the issue of long-term commitments and the impact on budgetary expenditure. The Ministry of Finance still has to make a final decision because such contracts will affect long-term government budget and government finances in general. So it's absurd to take this authorization from Minfin and pass it on to the Ministry of Energy, which will look at it from a completely different angle. I insist that the Ministry of Finance continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u123	Please be determined by 31 amendments. I just didn't see her number like that. It's really 31. [[12:45:11]] For-40 The correction is being rejected. The next 54 amendments, People's Deputy Levchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u124	Levčeko, "Freedom", 223 district, city of Kiev. This refers to the question that the bill proposes to extend budget expenditure, to provide budgetary resources to the Court of Justice. So, as we've seen from the other drafts previously adopted, the Judicial Protection Service is a completely unconstitutional body, fully established by the President of Ukraine, out of which such a miracle is unknown, and will essentially engage in what will determine who will be allowed to go to court, who will be expelled from court. Absolutely such a voluntary method of illegality. So in general, I think it's unacceptable that any State funds are allocated to this unconstitutional Judicial Service. Therefore, please approve this amendment and remove this Judicial Protection Service from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u125	Let's do 56, please. The 54th Amendment. The 54th Amendment. Next 56th, same as Lechchenka. It's 54th. We'll be right back, don't worry. I guess I didn't hear it. [[12:46:38]] For-32 The correction is being rejected. We had 54 revisions. And now. That's probably what you were talking to your head, and I didn't hear it. 39 amendment is the amendment of the People's Chamber of Squirrel. She was counted. The national deputy of Soloi insists on the word and on the amendment. Please, 39th now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, for over a year, a large number of deputies, national MPs in parliament, are fighting to ensure that local communities in areas where forests are massively cut off -- and in fact, this is the only natural resource -- receive part of the land tax and part of the rent for deforestation. Regrettably, despite the decisions of the working group led by Nina Petrovna Južanina, efforts are being made to deprive the local authorities, the unified local communities, the district councils of land taxes, and part of the rent. I want to look at all the majors who will then come to their communities and look into the eyes of their electorates and tell them how they took away some of the payments that communities are supposed to receive from deforestation in their territories. Because for the moment, no community in which the forest is massively deforested and roads are destroyed is receiving a single penny from the deforestation of the forest. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u127	Please place 39 amendments on confirmation. Mr. Constantine, will you give your position to the committee now? As far as 39 is concerned. The committee counted it, and now our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u128	The committee counted it, and I'm supporting it now. Part of it was counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u129	Guys, the committee's asking for 39 amendments. I'm putting her on the stand. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:48:59]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. Next is 41st now? Now it's 41? Please, National Deputy Soloway requires a microphone to turn it on, and he wants to make a note of up to 41 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I think we should do everything we can to ensure that those communities in which the only natural resources of the forest and in whose territory this forest is massively deforested are able to obtain and manage from the deforestation of this forest. In fact, my amendment is aimed at making the proposal I am making to leave 37 percent of the rent on the top of the low level, the unified territorial communities and the district councils in which the forest is being cut down. Why such opposition? I'll explain, because as long as local communities get part of their rent, they start to control the logging of these forests so that no car gets out of the account, and the rent goes into their local budget, so I'm bringing it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u131	I see. I just want to point out, colleagues, that the 41 amendment is the amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce, Mrs. Oksana Sold, and it was counted, it was counted. If we put it now. Until we vote? Yeah, it was just a statement. Let's move on. 56th Amendment. National MP Lewchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u132	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I refer to this foolish norm that was proposed in the first reading that, given the existence of late accounts payable on wages, but other than wages, utilities, electricity and heat, natural gas and other energy, budget managers within the framework of general budget allocations do not take on budgetary obligations and do not make payments under other measures. So if you have a debt for electricity, heat, natural gas and other energy, you essentially have total paralysis. This is the next, this dazzling position, the policy of this government, this coalition to privatize the state as such. Excuse me, what's more important: the revenues of some monopolistic gas or electricity or the work of government authorities? The answer is obvious: Common sense. So what I'm suggesting is to clean up this innovation that debt for electricity, heat, natural gas and other energy can paralyze the work of the budgetary authority. We need to clean this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u133	I'd like to make 56 adjustments. [[12:52:14]] For-45 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 59, Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u134	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this law also applies to the possibility of local borrowing and the provision of local guarantees by district councils. Self-help does not support this innovation, and it stresses that giving appropriate powers to the district councils is actually an insidious way of conducting a pre-election campaign at the expense of taxpayers. Because borrowing is actually going to be done through district councils, and it's going to be used in the interests of district government administrations, which, for today, let's face it, are the pre-election headquarters of the candidate to the presidents of the polls. In particular, for the construction of roads that the boards are telling us about today throughout the country. However, roads in this country are not built at the expense of the government and the President, but are primarily built at the expense of taxpayers. Therefore, we urge that we exclude the possibility of granting such loans to district councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u135	I'd like to make a statement for 59 amendments, please. [[12:53:31]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. National MP Neda requests a return to his 46th amendment. Please, Mr. Nedava's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u136	Good afternoon, everyone! Dear colleagues, especially colleagues from Donetskina, Dnipropetrovština, Zaporzik Region, Frankivska, Lugansk, Kirovgradina, please pay attention to Amendment 46, because this amendment returns the environmental tax that was taken to the state budget in that year. All the district administrations, all the councils have supported this amendment, and I very much ask you to support and approve this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u137	I'd like to make 46 adjustments, colleagues. [[12:54:28]] For-80 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 61, Semenha. Is he insisting? I'm sorry, '60s. 60 amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u138	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. I've done a lot of talking about my proposals to clean up this innovation on government budget balances: allowing district councils to borrow externally under local property. But here I would like to highlight really another point that Mr. Semimenach mentioned. The absolutely right question is that the price, the price of the strategic balance of the state budget, at the price of chaos in public finances, is being introduced exclusively into the presidential elections so that the Minister of Economy of the Janukovich government can direct the economy manually now. And through these borrowings of district councils, money is spent on various projects to prowl in front of the locals. before the presidential election, and try to get some extra points for yourself. And that's all at the cost of balancing government finances. It's completely irresponsible, it's the wrong policy and it's the kind of thing that needs to be removed from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u139	I'd like to make up my mind. Comment, please, Mr. Ischikin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, on the other hand, I would like to point out that there were no questions about the borrowing of local city councils. Therefore, the issue of empowering district councils is the question of expanding and improving infrastructure projects in the areas. They were all seen, and so when the road fund was directed and there was now a massive reconstruction of these roads, I'd like to speed up the time when people could use it, and these loans could be returned pretty quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u141	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[12:56:49]] For-46 The correction is being rejected. If you do not insist on making any adjustments, let us know. 61st. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, Self-Help with this right suggests that we take into account the interests of communities where mining is carried out. In addition to the government’s rent for oil and natural gas mining, the rent is now distributed in proportion to 75 percent of the government’s budget, 25 percent of the city of Kiev. That is, the income from rent today, for example, for the mine in the Kharkiv region goes, not to the budget, but to the local budget of the respective united territorial community, but to Kiev. There is no logical reason why this money does not remain in the local budgets but goes to Kiev. We suggest that our rights be passed on, not to 5 percent, but to 30 percent of the rent for the use of nadrama. In this way, we can really help local budgets and those united territorial communities to make money if such production takes place in their territory. Please support those who are truly concerned about local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u143	Please be determined by this amendment, Your Honor. [[12:58:11]] For-60 The 61st rejects the amendment. 62nd. Are you insisting, Levchenka? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u144	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The proposal is attributed to the income of the general budget fund of the cities of the Republic, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the region, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the district budgets, the budgets of the united territorial communities: 5 percent of the rent for the use of the nadrama to extract beneficial fossils of state importance requires serious processing. The point is, it's the only logic. The only logical reason why you have to transfer a portion of the rent directly to the mine site is to provide a normal environment and a normal transport structure, when the fossils and the environment are produced, and the transport structure is damaged, which is why you can explain the logic. And to explain why, for example, a school in a community that has useful fossils should be better than a school in a community where there is no useful fossil, there is no. Because we all live in the unitary country of Ukraine, not in the federation, yes, and if there was no Ukraine, no one would get any rents at all, yes. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, please. There are still so many amendments and laws. 15 seconds, and next time, please be sure to invest in minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u146	Mrs. Irina, this is a very important question, so. I did not abuse other cases. I'm stressing that this 5 percent, if passed on, should go solely to the environmental and transport infrastructure, only then will that be justified. Otherwise, it's a promotion at the expense of the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u147	I'd like to make a decision on 62 amendments. [[13:00:09]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. 68th, Semenha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the bill will help individuals to pay their income tax to their local budgets for the operation of separate units in their territories. For the time being, imperfect legislative formulation allows the parent company to pay taxes for its branches at the location of its territory rather than the location of such a branch. And if a company is in Kiev and a separate unit, for example, in Cologne, then a tax on the income of individuals can be paid by the company to the local budget at its location, not by the branch. So Self-Help proposes to eliminate this injustice and allow the local budgets to make a profit from the fact that there is an appropriate unit in their territories, because the branches use one or the other infrastructure of the community. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that, in the case of a legal person in the branch, a tax on the income of a natural person is actually included in the corresponding budget at the location of such a branch. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u149	I'd like you to identify yourself now for this amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:01:33]] For-55 68 Amendments are rejected. The next amendment is 72. Lechenko, are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u150	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Once again, in this situation, 5 percent of the rent for the use of nadrama to extract beneficial fossils of state-owned value. Rents on fossils of state importance are generally possible as such and in general any income from these fossils is possible as long as there is a state of Ukraine. No village alone, no city, no area, no area will get any rent if there is no state of Ukraine. This is a logical question: Why should a certain village or city get more of these fossils than that village, a city in the same state that doesn't have one, if that's the way nature has created the situation. The only logic, when it's going to get more, is to send these funds to ecology and to a road farm that really suffers from this kind of production. So I urge you once again to send these 5 percent not to the general fund to raise others above others, but to send them to a special fund: to ecology, to road agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u151	Thank you. I'd like to make 72 adjustments. I'd like to make a statement. I heard I'm checking. Dear colleague, I heard you, don't be nervous. [[13:03:11]] For-44 Yes, there are 71 amendments rejected. Forty-four, overruled. Next up, 72nd. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u152	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I, Mrs. Irina, would you give me two minutes, and I'll be there in two minutes, so I don't. Because that's the same question. The 72 and 75 amendments refer again to this question of where to send these 5 percent rents on beneficial mines of national importance. I emphasize that it is unacceptable to send these funds to the general fund of the respective local communities. Because it's not clear why a community school should be better than another community's school, because there's no fossil in one community and there's no fossil in the other. This is unfair in the unitary state of Ukraine, yes. Instead, I realize that a certain community suffers from driving around it constantly, such as furs, wrecking roads. The fact that it suffers from environmental problems is that when fossils are extracted, the environment is essentially damaged. This is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u153	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u154	And it's clear that on these issues, it's clear that the community really needs to get the right funding at the expense of the rent. But that's the kind of question, right on. How do I propose to write down, environmental measures and the development of the road economy, so it's through a special fund or a general fund. Then justice will be maintained for all citizens of Ukraine, and it will not be that some rise above others simply because they accidentally have useful fossils under them. So I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment for justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u155	I'd like to make 72 adjustments. [[13:05:31]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. I'd like to make 75 adjustments. [[13:05:48]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. 77th, Semenha. Don't insist. Thank you very much, Semenicha sir, for not insisting. 84th, Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? The paper removes obstacles in obtaining proper funding for high schools and colleges. Today, in the Code of Budgets and the Law of Ukraine on general secondary education, these institutions are called different: in the Budget Code of boarding school and boarding schools in the law, they simply have "gymnasiums" and "persons", and that is why they have problems with funding, which we are told from the regions. The Self-Help Amendment proposes to bring the Terminology of the Budget Code into line with the General Secondary Education Act in such a way that these colleges and high schools do not have similar problems in the 19th year. In general, the lack of support for this amendment is surprising, and I don't understand why this has not been supported in the budget committee, and I ask the representative of the budget committee to comment, because today these gaps in legislation are making it difficult to get the funds already budgeted, not to mention giving them the additional funding they need. Please support, colleagues, this will provide adequate funding for schools, licenses all over Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u157	I'd like you to decide on 84 amendments. [[13:07:13]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. Mr. Neda, are you insisting on your amendments? 90. Thank you very much, my dear colleague, for your constructive position. And we're still working on amendments to the bill. The next amendment is the People's Deputy of Semimenah, 101st. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're on our way. People's delegate to Semimenah, 130th. Don't insist. Lechenko, 138th. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u158	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill states that from 1 April 2019 until 1 January 20th as an exception to paragraph 8 of Part One of Article 87, paragraph 3 of Part One of Article 89, 90 and Part One of Article 103 of this Code, pilot projects are being implemented to provide public health care guarantees to the population under a medical guarantee programme for the appropriate types of health services for individual health care facilities in the local or regional areas, as well as compensation for the cost of medical supplies for the treatment of specific diseases in the order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is about the cost of medical supplies. This order, defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, is usually full of nonsense, isn't it? I therefore propose that this order be previously agreed upon by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, so that there may be at least some parliamentary control over how this order is formed. Without it, they accept things that can't be used, they're completely unworkable. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u159	Please identify yourself as amended by 138. [[13:09:30.]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 148th, Lehchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u160	148 the amendment refers to the fact that this is such a fundamental thing of unconstitutionality, some unconstitutionality in the budgetary process, when it is prescribed to stop any act of Ukrainian law on the basis of what is prescribed in the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I mean, as it's now stated that if the Cabinet of Ministers provides such a State budget that it can't finance all the relevant articles in other laws, this applies mainly to social security, then it's possible not to finance them, but to finance them within budget spending. This is completely unconstitutional. There are laws of Ukraine that must be enforced. If someone doesn't like them in the Ministry of Finance, anyone else, change them, cancel them, cancel them, and don't insert a completely unconstitutional position that any Ukrainian law can be stopped by essentially state budget spending. That's bullshit. I'm asking you to clean it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 148 amendments, please. My colleagues, and I inform you that there are literally three amendments that the authors insist on. Then the word of Mr. Ischeikin, two minutes. We're going to the vote. [[13:10:57]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. Please turn on the microphone. He's asking for 130 amendments so we can listen to him. And then. I see. I see, colleagues, I see everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, Self-Help suggests this right to reduce the budgets of the united territorial communities from the district budgets. Today, according to current legislation, the authorities actually allocate an additional grant to their own discretion for the maintenance of educational and health facilities. As a result, such a division does not exactly take place in the interests of united territorial communities. And according to the Association of Ukrainian Cities, only nearly 12 percent of these funds reach the united territorial communities. That is to say, the bulk of the grants remain at the disposal of the district budgets, although the drinking weight of education and health care costs lies in the local budgets. We therefore propose that such a grant be made available to all budgets that have direct inter-budget relations with the State budget. In doing so, the formula should be unique to all and be based on objective criteria and not subjective. And so this is going to reduce the dependence on district budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u163	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to make 130 adjustments. And I remind you that there are literally five minutes left before the decision on the bill is made. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:27]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. We have three colleagues who have yet to raise their hand that they insist on their amendments. This is the People's Deputy Kulinic, 161 amendments, and then 4. Then I'll give my word in turn. Please. Dear colleagues, I'll take my turn. Now Kulinic – 161th, then – Šurma, then – Halasyuk, then – Janicki. I. Okay. 161th, Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I insist on 161 directions, but I ask her to support something in a different edition in connection with the withdrawal of funds from state support in the area of the APC. I would like to read under the transcript: Section I, paragraph 7, of the bill in the drafting of the committee: "paragraph 42, paragraph 2, should be amended as follows: "up to 20 per cent of this support is used by agricultural producers for the purchase of agricultural products and equipment (2017 ry – 10 per cent, 2018 – 15 per cent), as well as special wagons for the transport of grain, equipment for the production of bioethanol and electricity from biomass." Thank you and please support
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u165	Please identify 161 revisions, colleagues. [[13:13:56]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. Please, microphone to National Deputy Igor Shurma. 150th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u166	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes the implementation of the valid provisions of the Public Health Service Guarantee Act in part of the financing of State guarantees for public health care and the payment of medical workers to the government. And from the available financial resources, we can say that 5 percent of those that guarantee health development, the introduction of the so-called medical reform that is currently under consideration in the Constitutional Court, are a sign of a call. The entire committee, all members of the committee today are proposing to uphold this standard, to exclude paragraph 25, paragraph 4, and to allow health care to develop. I would like to remind you that in this budget, instead of the planned 5 percent of the gross domestic product, 195 billion dollars, is only going to be allocated 90 billion. This means that all changes in health care will be completely ruined. We put the galleon on survival. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like you to identify yourself for 150 amendments to the Shurma People's Deputy. [[13:15:28]] For-73 The correction is being rejected. A representative of the committee will be able to sum up the discussion in just a few minutes. National MP Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u168	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the development of science needs to be financed. We suggest that the profits that are made by state-owned unitary enterprises, which are subordinated to the National Academy of Sciences, should not be taken into the state, but should be directed towards targeted financing, innovation, development of a material and technological base and new scientific research. It's not a big cost to the state, it's a couple of tens of millions of dollars, but for these scientific enterprises and institutions, it's a huge amount of money. I'm not saying that in the draft budget that was introduced today, 200 million dollars were removed from fundamental research. Just think about what it is! It's a fiscal conundrum on the neck of Ukrainian science. 20 million dollars have been erased against the Economic Research Committee's decision. But at least give the profits that scientists earn to reinvest in the development of science. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u169	Correction number, please? Mr. Galasyuk, the number of the amendment, please remind us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u170	165th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u171	165 revisions. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. Now it's 165th. Colleagues, I've seen all hands, we'll go back to all the amendments that colleagues insist on. Don't worry, please. We can see them all. [[13:17:06]] For-60 The correction is being rejected. Next up, Sissyenko. She needs two amendments: 151st and 153rd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u172	I want to read my amendment under the transcript. Amendment 151. "Section 25, paragraph 4, and the bill is deleted." This amendment must be supported by all factions. This amendment is supported by members of the Health Committee: Jarinich, Berezenk, Shipk, Shurma, Donez, Kirichenko, Billowol. We demand that this amendment return to medical laws the issue that the State is obliged to allocate at least 5 percent of GDP to public funding for medical services for citizens. We demand a return to the standard that should be paid to medical workers, which should be at least 250 percent, multiplied by the average wage in Ukraine. This amendment requires us to return to a standard where no government in manual mode will decide what services to pay for citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u173	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u174	which will not be paid, and what this will be, as stated in the current Health Reform Act, which will be an addition to the State Budget of Ukraine, and Parliament will also assume responsibility for providing and financing medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u175	Please identify 151 revisions. [[13:19:02]] For-97 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 153rd. Sissyenko doesn't insist on her anymore. Are you insisting? Well, please, I'm your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u176	The self-help faction strongly denies the government's attempt to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code to destroy these rules, which have led to the adoption of new laws relating to medical reform. The Self-Help faction believes that if the issue is not resolved to raise wages, if the State does not provide public funding for the health services that the State has to pay at the expense of the budget, then there is no point in the content of the new laws relating to medical reform. Therefore, we demand that amendment 153 be amended and that it be done simply by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I ask you to identify 153 amendments. Please. My colleagues, we have another amendment. I ask you to return to the session room of all. Please. Heads of factions, please give a signal to the Ukrainian people's deputies to return from the towers, from the dining rooms. [[13:20:20]] For-88 The correction is being rejected. The final amendment to which National Deputy Bakumenko insists 164th. Yes, still Janicki. I'm sorry, not the last one, 3 more corrections: Melnik, Janicki. But now Buckumenko. Please, Mr. Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u178	Thank you. Paragraph 25 of section I of the draft law on "Final and transitional positions" should be supplemented by a new sub-paragraph 5 of the following content: "To establish as an exception to the provisions of part of article 23 of the Code, that the remaining funds at the end of the budget period foreseen for the State support of agricultural producers are listed in the Special Fund of the State Budget and are intended solely to guarantee the return of bank loans and insurance against agricultural insurance risks.".. What's the big deal? So this year, as we hope, at least 2 billion dollars will not be absorbed. So we ask that we consider this and move it to the next year. Please support the agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u179	Colleagues, I'm asking you to decide on 164 amendments. [[13:21:46]] For-99 The correction is being rejected. People's MP Janicki, you have the floor. And I'm sorry I didn't give it right away. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I'd like to go back to 180 revisions and support them. Her reasoning was clearly answered at a meeting of the Committee of Budget and Budget, and in addition, we voted in favour of her support in the session room. Request to support and confirm this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u181	Now it's about 180 revisions. This is the 180th Amendment, the honourable colleague of our national MP Janicki. She was rejected by the committee. He's asking for her support. Colleagues, please identify for 180 amendments. [[13:22:46]] For-75 The correction is being rejected. The last amendment that our colleagues insist on is our colleague, National MP Melnik. Please, a word. And then, Mr. Ischeikin, you're going to sum up the discussion, including what sounded from the point of view of the transcript that made the changes. Please, Mr. Melnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u182	Honorary colleagues, 177 rights, we settle most of the issues relating to the inter-budget relations of newly formed united territorial communities. However, I would like to point out that the issue of direct inter-budget relations created by the newly created OTG that are being created after 16 November of this year remains unresolved. So I would ask the government, the Ministry of Finance protocolly, we think, the budget committee, that these issues can be settled when a stabilising grant is distributed, and we ask the Association of Cities to give an appropriate algorithm. Besides, I'd like to ask the Local Self-Government Profile Committee, we also have an unresolved issue on this issue, where the District Councils are separate, which does not approve a forward-looking plan. And we would ask, by analogy, for recognition by the Cabinet of Ministers that the unified territorial communities are able to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u183	I see. I'm asking my colleagues to decide on 177 amendments now. 177 amendment, please identify yourself, colleagues. Vote. Oh, you don't insist, you just do. Microphone, please, Mr. Melnik. Mr. Melnik's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u184	I'd like to ask these two questions on a stabilising grant, so that it's protocolly sent as a commission, and when it's distributed, it's possible to settle and not make direct changes. And the second. It's a profile committee on a forward-looking plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u185	Thank you. We can't vote for that. And I'm just asking that this be with you later, it sounds like a parliamentary address. And then we can think of it as a parliamentary address. Colleagues, the word is now given to Mr. Ischeikin's reporter. Mr. Ischeikin will pay attention to the few amendments on which the committee requests that we focus, turn around, support the bill so that the bill is not balanced. There will be three adjustments, so I am very grateful to listen. Colleagues, get back to the session room, there'll be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u186	Kostya. Wait a minute. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. In two or three minutes, we will move on to the decision-making process after the closing statement of the head of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich's subcommittee. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite all the deputies to the Hall. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be responsible so that we don't go back to the polls so that it doesn't last a few times. So I invite you to the closing statement of Ischeikin Constantine Eugenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again that the committee supported, firstly, the granting of external borrowings. And I also think that district councils have the same rights as cities. And this norm will only contribute to the faster development of infrastructure projects. Secondly, I'd like to ask you to support Irina Sisoyenko's enrollment under number 151 in that editorial she gave. Also, the rights of the national MP, Oleg Kulinich, in the editorial he gave us. Jury Solovia’s comment on 39 of the bill he announced. Is it possible for Yuri Soloway to reenact under the transcript? Or it will. And 100? [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee generally supported the 165 rights of the national deputy of Halasyuk, but it was noted that it was desirable to bring these positions into line with the bill of profile. In order for there to be no question of the position of the Budget Code because there are certain resource points. And the last thing we asked to focus on was the 180th National MP of Janick. Please, if it is possible for Yuri Soloway to emphasize the wording. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u188	So I'm going to give you all the suggestions from the committee. The committee's proposal is to go back to the 167th and 180th. Yeah? And the 151st. Yeah, next up, 161th is in an editorial that Kulinic sounded. 165th is in an editorial by Solovay. Mr. Solovay, one minute, under the stenogram, please make the correct wording.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the proposal to return to 39 revisions with the following proposal: the last two paragraphs concerning the revenue of the district budgets, delete and insert these paragraphs in a new edition, which should read as follows. "In the first part of article 64, paragraph 2 reads as follows: "37 per cent of the rent for the special use of forest resources in part of the wood produced in the order of the cuttings of the main use." Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u190	Mr. Oleg, maybe I'll just put in a vote that 39 revisions in an editorial that was sounded by Solovay? Is there no objection? It'll be easier. So I'm going to ask the committee again. And please, colleagues, everyone's going in and out of jobs. We're going back to the 151, 167 and 180. Yeah? And 165th. I've already called her, be careful. We're going to go back to 151st, 165th, 167th and 180th, and we're going to go back to 161th and 39th during the vote, and I'm going to say that in your line of work, you don't have to go back to them, you don't have to go back to them, I'm just going to go back to them. So tomorrow we're going to have four votes, a return to four rights. One thing, okay, we'll go back to each other, and we'll support each other, we'll make a deal. Okay, colleagues. I'm asking you all to take up jobs now, stay out of the hall. And I suggest, at the suggestion of the committee, that we go back to editing 151, 165, 167 and 180. Please vote and please support. And 151, I said, be careful, don't interrupt me, I'm sorry. Four axles: 151st, 154th, 167th, 180th. Please vote, please support, please support. [[13:31:12]] For 199 We'll assume we didn't make it. Please enter the hall, colleagues, during the budget review. The head of the Budget Committee, please. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, have they all entered the hall? All right. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 151st, 165th, 167th and 180th. Please vote and please. Colleagues, I'm putting you to a vote, you're not in the workplace. Take up jobs, please. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote for your return to the right. Please vote. Back up, fellows! Voting, voting. [[13:33:12]] For 248 Back, colleagues, decision taken. Now I'm going to put, first of all, 151 rights. Please support 151 revisions, all together, yes. I put to the vote, colleagues, four allowances from different deputies. Come on, guys, let's support our friends. I'll bet you 151, 165, 167 and 180. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:00]] For 221 I told you, that's not gonna happen. We're going every way. I'm voting for amendment 151. Please vote. We're back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, we just went down. That's right. Okay, okay. Colleagues, we'll come back again and I'll bet one by one. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm going to make the first suggestion to go back to the four rights, then I'm going to put each of them separately. I ask you to go back to the right of 151, 165, 167, 180. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[13:35:09]] For 237 We're back. Now, colleagues, I put each one apart. The first to confirm license 151. Please vote, please support number 151. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:35:34]] For 247 Decision taken. Next up is 165th. Please support number 165. Please vote, please support. Careful, colleagues, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:35:55]] For-188. 188. Next I'm betting on confirmation of the 167. Colleagues, please vote, please support 167 revisions. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:20]] For 180. The decision is not taken. And I'm betting on the 180th vote for confirmation. Please support, 180 confirmations. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:45]] For 190 190, colleagues. So we have one option. I want to remind myself, by the way, that I'm going to put article 39 in Solovia, 161, in Kulinich's vote. Then I'll put it to a vote. The committee head! I'll bet you a vote. Tell me, head of the committee! So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! The law will be broken if we do not vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (No. 9084) with 39 of the bill being put to the vote by Solova and 161 of the paper by Kulinic on second reading and in general with technical law and processing. And 151 by right, of course. And of course, 151 by right. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:38:30.]] For 217 By factions, please show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block 99, People's Front 66, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 0, Radical Party 0, Fatherland 0, Will of the People 9, Rebirth Party 20. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to be in the hall right now. We supported 151 rights, colleagues, we supported 151 rights. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, pay attention! There are two suggestions that if we put it to 165 and 180, there will be votes. Colleagues, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m0.u191	Let me put it this way, but first we have to go back, but first we have to go back, and then I'm going to call it 165 and 180. I'll announce it, but first, come back, colleagues. I would like to vote in favour of returning to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (9084). Please vote, please support the return. Please support the return, please vote for the return. Guys, come back here. I'm gonna set you up, I promised. [[13:40:24]] For 238. We're back. And now I'm putting in the draft of Law 9084, I'm reminding you, Law 39 in Solovia, 61st Kulinic and also 165 and 180, taking into account the rights of 165 and 180. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. Yeah, let's go back to the right. Andrew, come here, come here. Colleagues, I made it very clear: 39th is Solovia's editorial; 151th is Kulinic's editorial. My colleagues, I repeat it many times. That's 165th and 180th. Please vote and please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please stop, colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention. Attention! Attention, everyone, please calm down. Everyone's trying to talk, I'm asking a government representative. All right, I'll set up each one separately, colleagues, paperwork. Attention! Yes, first. Attention! Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be careful now and to be in your seats. The first is the return to the 165th. Please vote, please support. Return. [[B in m in s a l in]] To 161. Please vote. [[13:42:45]] For 207 Next. I suggest we go back to the 180th at the suggestion of the committee. So back to the 180s. Please vote and please support the return to the 180th Amendment. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:43:11]] For 221 I'll put it again, colleagues. A few votes. Please. I'm asking you to go back to the 180. Please vote and support for the 180th readmission. Please support, we vote. [[13:43:48]] For 221 I'll do it again, colleagues, I'll do it. If there are no votes, we vote without it. I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues. So I'm going to re-vote the proposal to go back to 180 revisions. Please vote and please support. Six votes is not enough, each voice has a weight. Please, 180th, 180th, come back. Please vote and please support. We're voting, 180 revisions, we're voting for a return. [[13:44:37]] For 224 Colleagues, two votes. I'll do it again. Colleagues, attention, two votes. I'm going to go back to the 180s. I ask everyone to vote and support. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote for the return. [[13:45:23]] For 217 No votes, no colleagues, no votes. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already voted one and the other. Colleagues, pay attention. I put both of them on the way back, and they both didn't get the required number of votes. I've already put it down, they both haven't gotten the required number of votes. So I'm betting on the vote now without those licenses. I put them to the vote many times. I ask everyone to unite and support now. I'll bet on it. And don't play with it, fellows, don't play with it anymore. Please support everyone. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (No. 9084). I remind you, the 39th edition of Solovia, 161th edition of Kulinić in second reading and in general with technical law. Don't play games! Please vote and please support. Vote. Hold on, we've supported 151 revisions. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Otherwise, the Budget Code will now be overturned. [[13:46:52]] For 196 The factions, please. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 66, "National Front" – 72, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 15, "Party of Rebirth" – 23, non-fractional – 20. So I'm asking you to approach the committee head. I'm asking everyone to stay put. I ask the head of the committee to come to me, budgetary. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues! We have a stop on these two same lines 165 and 180. I emphasize that they will be treated separately. They will be treated separately. Yes, now I, my colleagues, will propose the same path that we have just passed. Going back to the law is the first step. Then go back to 165 — step two. Then return to step 180 — step three. Then support 161, 180. And then the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] You got it, right? So I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues, don't intrude in the hall, you listen to me carefully, we'll have a vote. Attention! The first was to return to the law. The second one is back to 165. The third one is back to 180. Then we supported 165. Then we supported the 180th. Then we backed the law. Six votes. You're going to be in the right place, and you're going to vote the right way. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize and be responsible and considerate so that we don't crash the Budget Code. Six votes. First vote. I propose to return to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (9084). To confirm the changes, we need to go back first. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're voting for the return. To return. [[13:50:24]] For 229 We're back, 229. Next. I'm offering to go back to the 165. Whoever supports this position please vote in favour of the return to the 165th Amendment. Please vote. Vote. [[13:50:53]] For 236 We're back before. 236. Please go back to the 180s. Please vote. Please support the return. Vote. Please vote. [[13:51:14]] For 233 Now three votes, colleagues: 165 support, 180 support, support for the law. Three valid and responsible ballots. Everyone, please be seated. And I'm betting on whoever supports the 165th amendment, please vote. Please be supportive. Voting, voting. [[13:51:46]] For 240 Edit is supported. The other one. Stand by for approval of the 180th Amendment, please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:52:09]] For 213 Colleagues, I'll put it back on the 180th. I would like to emphasize that I am continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back again. If there are no votes, we're going to vote on the law. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 180th. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:53:30.]] For 196 So, colleague, I have no other way. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, colleagues, we're just going to get to the bottom of what's going to be the collapse of the Budget Code. There's nothing to be happy about. You have nothing to look forward to. I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (9084) (I remind you of the transcript: Solovay, Kulinić – 161, 39) in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:54:24]] For 158. 158. What are you doing, people? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking everyone to stay put, colleagues. These are political games that put the whole budget process at risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues are in consultation, but the situation is very unpleasant. I remind you that I am continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Colleagues, pay attention! I have an offer. I ask everyone to listen carefully. It's hard to find compromise in the hall right now. The proposal is that we now return to the debate, announce a recess, hold consultations, and after lunch, we continue to exchange thoughts and vote. Keep this up, it'll be fair. So, colleagues, if we don't support it this time, the Budget Code will be overturned. My suggestion is that we go back to the law. I'm calling it a break. During the two hours we hold consultations, at 16 o'clock we continue our consideration of the draft budget. You got it, right? Everyone please take up their jobs. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, a colleague, to seek compromises. I'm asking you to back everyone up, vote for the return, for the return. Please vote, please support the return. I'm waiting! We're waiting! We're waiting for Ola. We're waiting for Ola. So, please vote, please support the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:59:13]] For 227 My colleagues, so we're back. We are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I ask that the Budget Committee meet for lunch and find a compromise position to vote with. After lunch, we'll continue to vote, and we'll start by exchanging thoughts from factions, exchanging thoughts from factions. And I, colleagues, ask everyone to come to the hall at 4:00. It's the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My colleagues, I would like to stress to you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has considered bill 9037 on amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the EU and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In its conclusion, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine recognized the bill as a whole in such a way that it meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm giving the commission to the Legal Policy Committee so you can look at it at lunchtime, I think it'll be very symbolic if by the 5th anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution we can vote for the first reading of the changes to the Constitution. I'm asking you to hold a committee from 2nd to 4th. And I ask all members of the Legal Policy Committee to meet on a committee to be able to make decisions on the changes to the Constitution, and we will be able to put them to a vote today, and this will be an important step towards the fifth anniversary of Maidan. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall.
