ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So please invite the deputies to the hall. Please take up jobs. Ready, colleagues? I'd like you to register, please. I'd like you to register. [[10:02:32]] 344 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Sergio Ivanovich Kiral. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. [[Applause]] I would also like to remind you, colleagues, that two weeks ago, during Ukraine's initiatives, the heads of parliaments of Ukraine, Lithuania, Poland, Moldova signed a joint letter on the inadmissibility of the North Stream-2 project, which is a threat to Ukraine's energy security. And it's very important that our voice was heard, and today a representative of the U.S. Department of State said that companies involved in the construction of the North Stream 2 gas station could be subject to sanctions. In particular, the statement of Dresden states: "We believe that Nord Stream undermines Europe's energy security and stability. He will provide Russia with another means of exerting pressure on European countries, especially Ukraine. We highly appreciate Ukraine's support for our allies and call on other countries, in particular EU countries, to also impose sanctions against companies involved in the construction of this gas pipeline. "North Stream 2" is a Russian weapon in war not only against Ukraine, but against all countries of the free world. "North Stream 2" is a Putin tool to make European countries dependent on Russia. We look forward to the strategic wisdom of Europe and its leaders. Stronger together, independent together." Thank our allies. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that today we have 30 minutes of performances by the national deputies. Not factions, but people's deputies. And I'm asking everyone who intends to take part in this speech to prepare for the recording. An entry will now be made to participate in the speeches by the National Deputies. So please record and sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich gives the floor for the speech. Who gives the word, Arthur? I can't hear you. Tell me who he's telling. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney. He's already approaching the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u4	Thank you. Barney. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u5	Praise Jesus Christ! We do not have the right to give legal evaluations of the work of Hope Savchenko, for it is solely the competence of law enforcement agencies and special services, but to give a political assessment of her activities as a deputy we are obliged to do. Because regardless of the political affiliation of each of us, we must have the sole goal of serving the Ukrainian people and protecting the interests of the state. I respect the dignity of those who protected the country in the East, who protected the dignity of Maidan, all those fighting brothers who were with me in the City of Lugansk or Chernoukhin. They are a model of our civic position and dignity, and it is responsibility for the country, responsibility without any preferences, preferences to land, benefits, preferences to humiliate others or reach for the dignity of others. ATO veterans should be a pattern of lawfulness and a pattern of responsibility. Each of us may not have fully thought out the concessions of the Russian special forces to the collapse of social stability, the collapse of public opinion in Ukraine. But each of us, apparently from the Ukrainian politicians, must feel the ugliness of their intentions for the destruction of our Ukrainian state. An example of the inadvertentness or accident of the Russian influence itself is the statement made by the Savechenko Hope in PARJE about the refusal of Ukraine's air weapons, about the lifting of sanctions from Russia, about its statements about direct negotiations with DNR or LNR leaders, thereby acknowledging their legitimacy and confirming Putin's words about the civil conflict in the east, not Russia's aggression, or about the unilateral release of Russian prisoners or separatists into Putin's cause. It was not uncommon for all of these statements to be in harmony with Putin’s words. So, Savechenko, unfortunately, there are for all of us. became the project of the Russian FSB, which was implemented by the Tollinian godfather, the head of the Party "The Ukrainian Choice" by Medvedchuk, and incorporated into the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the help of the Party "The Fatherland" of July Volodymyrovna under number 1. Obviously, we need to understand the fact that this is a continuation of the hybrid war against Ukraine, starting with the collapse of the orange coalition in 2007, the collapse of the army, the underfunding of the army and the same actions that are taking place under the Supreme Council at the expense of Kurchenka, the FSB, organized by the Western Cossacks. We're done playing politics. We're tired of screaming about patriotism.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u6	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u7	We need to become patriots at last, because according to some pseudo activists, if some people want Russian peace in Ukraine, vote for the Ukrainian Choice and Timoshenko, and you will have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u8	Thank you. There's a lot going on today. Surely, in the end, you will. Next, please, National Deputy Zholobecki. I'd like to have a word with you. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of the city of Mikolayeva! In the Mikolaiiv region, a state-owned company called the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant is of great socio-economic importance. This is now the only state-owned shipbuilding enterprise that has a strategic status for the economy and security of the state, but it has been in critical condition for a long time. That is, all wage earners for 3.5 years will not receive a salary. A key object of the plant is a country-wide cruiser called Ukraine, built 25 years ago. Unfortunately, however, the cruiser is in a neglected state today and is simply being destroyed. In 2003, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence paid for the maintenance of the cruiser in accordance with the contracts, for which the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant received about 6.5 million a year. Despite the difficult financial situation of the plant, the existence of debt from the salaries of its employees, despite the demands of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the Ministry’s obligations to ensure the maintenance of the cruiser and the coverage of the damage, not only did the Ministry of Defence not determine the extent of the damage caused to the factory in connection with the termination of the cruiser’s construction and the source of its coverage, but it finally ceased its maintenance in 2015. The maintenance of the cruiser involves a great deal of work: the power supply, the ventilation system, the electronics, the large number of factory workers worked every month to support this cruiser. However, the retention of the cruiser was halted in view of the fact that the Ministry of Defense’s distribution of expenditures did not provide for financing of the operation to maintain an unbuilt rocket cruiser. After all, the loss of military assets of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has led to a deterioration in the financial situation of the entire shipbuilding plant and an increase in debt from wages. So far, debt is now more than 65 million dollars. In the absence of a government order for the construction of ships, the factory planned to receive compensation from the Ministry of Defense for the maintenance of the cruiser. This lack of activity has greatly worsened the social situation in the plant and in the city of Mikolayev and puts the ecological situation in the region at risk. Stopping the cruiser will destroy its energy nodes, equipment elements, environmental pollution of the South Bug and Ingula rivers. I emphasize that the Ministry of Defence has a direct obligation to pay for the maintenance of the cruiser because it is a contractor. And in the following, the buildup of the cruiser is the state of Ukraine in a person, particularly the Ministry of Defence. Why the State within the Ministry of Defence does not foresee the cost of its maintenance and in general deny its commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u10	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u11	Considering that there is a state within the Ministry of Defence, we ask the Ministry of Defence to make contracts with the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u12	Thank you. I just can't do it anymore. Thank you. 15 seconds, please be on the schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u13	Thank you. The Cabinet of Ministers would like to make a balanced decision on the future fate of the Ukrainian rocket cruiser. We ask that we consider the Minister of Defence and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, you have the floor. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a statement. There are many who want to speak and then there are insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u15	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Our team has developed an industrial reform package. To create several million jobs in Ukraine. In order to bring back the Ukrainian workers who were forced to go abroad today and make money there, to return them to Ukraine, to their own families. In order to return the funds to the offshore and they were invested in Ukrainian investment, in Ukrainian production. In order for foreign investors to come to Ukraine and develop their production here, creating jobs with a decent salary for Ukrainians. This bold, complex industrial reform package lists more than 10 bills. Moreover, a number of these initiatives were included by the Prime Minister in the list of 35 priority bills. This is, in particular, a bill for the protection of Ukrainian exporters, which removes completely corrupt administrative artificial procedures that the Ministry of Economics applies to Ukrainian exporting producers, and essentially inhibits exports, creates corruption and blocks the development of investment activities. This is a bill on the detinification of the scrap metal market in Ukraine in order to allow Ukrainian metallurgy to be guaranteed, without hindrance to the raw material that is in Ukraine, but it is completely tinted, to the Ukrainian budget to obtain legal filling. So to bring out this sector, which is today shadowy, to bring it into the light of the economy and to increase the budget revenue. These are industrial parks bills that generate powerful investment advantages compared to other countries. This package of legislative initiatives will enable Ukraine to compete effectively for investment, jobs with Turkey, Poland, Slovakia, and other countries. And here's a question. Have you heard of these bills from the Ministry of Economics, from Stepan Ivanovich Kubiv, First Deputy Prime Minister of Economics, or from his first deputy Maxim Nephrodov, responsible for industrial policy in the government? No, it's not. I think you've heard, like me, from them completely different, about the simulation of deregulation to manipulate, pick up, improve positions in the Doing Business rating without actually improving the conditions of investment activity. Did you hear them say, "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians!"? Is it the creation of an expert credit agency that the government is obliged to create in accordance with that law that you and I have chosen in this room? Is it possible to join the engineering networks for free, you've heard of them, the biggest barrier today for real investment in the economy? That's why our Radical Party team advocates real improvements in business climate and production, not the kind of simulation that the authorities are doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u16	Please, National Deputy Lušnjak will take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the head of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Today, the budget committee at its meeting will distribute the cost of animal production for 2018. The Ministry has set up and the Supreme Council has voted 4 billion to develop animal production and raise the Ukrainian village. But what happens? It happens, it's repeated in 2017, that the lion's share of this money is going to take away the individual oligarchs. They will be used not only to build infrastructure projects, but also to build biogas installations, where they will use budget support not only in the APC area, but will also receive state support according to green energy. Tell me, can Ukraine build a business today, a private business at the expense of its budget? In view of the decline in the size of the cattle in the countryside today? And it is our agrarian committee's stand that has offered a budget committee to limit the animal budget grant to no more than 150 million. Today, Ukraine supports restrictions because we understand that it is the support of small, medium-sized rural businesses that will stimulate the Ukrainian economy, which is also enshrined in the Code. That every yard farm gets a grant per cow on a calf. So I'm offering from the leftovers, and if there's a limit, they're going to stay in the Ukrainian budget, so that these are the funds that they're going to use for the backyard farms, and they're going to increase the amount of payment per cow, today it's going to be one and a half thousand dollars. We have to give three thousand dollars so that people can support their farms. The other one. This will stimulate the second Fermer Farms budget programme, where one billion dollars has been set up. Where farms can create cooperatives, buy dairy products, and raise the quality of milk. And today our job is to get the Ukrainian Parliament to stimulate the development of small, medium-sized businesses, so that the suburban farms get the maximum benefit. Bill 8052 was adopted on the previous tax committee as a basis. I ask that the Chief of the Supreme Council also put it in partnership with Bill 74. Section 2 and Bill 8059, which will stimulate small medium-sized businesses and enable them to receive the biggest grants to the very small ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the next speech is the national deputy Jurinec. Please. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u19	Good afternoon! Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! The reform of diplomatic service today is more urgent than ever. The Peter Prashenko faction believes it is necessary to improve the tools for protecting Ukraine's national interests. Therefore, it is important to finally support the reform of diplomatic service in the Presidential Bill 7322 in this plenary week. Ukrainian diplomats have created a powerful front for protecting Ukraine's integrity in the international arena. Through their work, the entire civilized world condemns gross violations of international law and Russian military aggression against our country. Western allies constantly reinforce sanctions and keep on putting economic pressure on the aggressor. By the end of last year, Ukraine had celebrated the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the first foreign policy service structure. This gave birth to Ukrainian diplomacy. If our diplomacy were as powerful in those years as it is today, over 100 years ago Ukraine would have its own state, because it is no less important to effectively resist external aggression than to have a powerful army. Our nation has now established relations with more than 180 countries in the world. Ukraine is a member of a series of important international organizations: the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the WTO. We are a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and we have set a clear course for NATO and European Union membership. At the same time, Ukrainian passports are strengthened. By the end of this year, the number of countries in which Ukrainians will be allowed to enter without a visa is expected to continue. What? The adoption of service reforms will allow diplomats to have additional mechanisms to carry out professional activities in accordance with European and American standards. Diplomatic service should become more popular and include the best professionals in vacant positions. The bill clearly defines the legal status of the members of the corps, prescribes the criteria for the entry into the diplomatic service, their passage and the mechanisms of termination. Under the updated law, staff members are likened to civil servants with appropriate advantages and social protection. The proposed Bill 7322 lays down organizational principles for the activities of the bodies and departments of the diplomatic service and is responsible for the implementation of Ukraine’s foreign policy. In the face of opposition to Russian aggression and occupation of part of the territory, the modernization of legislation on the activities of the diplomatic corps is extremely important. We have the opportunity to modernize the principles of the activities of diplomats, which will make their work easier and more effective to protect the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. The final adoption of Bill 7322 may be late, but it will be a wonderful gift to the 100th anniversary of Ukrainian diplomacy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, the next speech is the people's representative of Bublik. Passes the word to Mishchenku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to read the latest press release from the Ministry of Social Policy: "It is necessary to neutralize today's imbalances, as revealed by the pension reform. And today we have actually gotten a result that forces us to correct some of the faults." What, you didn't know before that these distortions would be imbalances? Who advised you to accept such a pension reform? The ones who voted, the MPs, the red button? And we talked about what's going to be around the country, that's going to be problem number one. So you divided people into 2 classes: those who received a pension increase of 2 to 6,000, and all the other taxes, or even citizens like journalists, scientists, other spheres, they didn't get anything at all. And the workers who worked for more than 40 years at work received taxes. According to the report, another problem identified is that the recalculation of pensions came up less than expected in some pensioners. So that's clear, because sociology has shown that 9 percent are satisfied with pension reform and 91 percent are dissatisfied. Where did this money go? And the money went according to the latest report from the same ministry, the major ones went from these billions to occupied areas, because miners who worked on the list of one, and that's more. In Donetsk and Lugansk, more than half a million were raised from 2,000 to 6,000. Do you know the concept of retirement tourism today? It's impossible to rent an apartment in Mariupola today. Why? And because every month, from the so-called DNR and LNR, retirees are going to get our pension, and then they're going back to the occupied territories and they're getting their pensions. What about the grandparents who send their grandchildren from Ternopilsk, Volinsk, Kiev, Zitomirsk, and other areas that have received nothing? So I call on those who are going to the presidential candidates, who are going to the parliamentary elections, and those majors who voted in favour of this pension reform. Until you accept the change to this pension reform. And the basic thing to do is to return the coefficients, not those that are today: 15 years worked -- one coefficient, 35 years -- one coefficient. Then there'll be some pressure. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u22	The Soboljev People’s Deputy is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u23	We have one day left to correct the terrible legislation that has been deceived through Parliament, the legislation that forces citizens, the best active citizens, to report to officials. It's about declaring public organizations. I think you all remember the fraudulent way in which these requirements were incorporated into the law. And I think everyone has realized in this time that it's idiotic and against everyone who's in this room, the idea, not to mention people who fall under the law. When citizens control officials, that's good, that's democracy. When the landlords try to control the citizens, it's a road to hell, it's not a road. I think everyone has seen an explanation from the anti - corruption agency, or what it's called right now, I don't know. They said that anyone who drank coffee got a pen from a public organization that has words about preventing corruption, they already have to fill out declarations as we fill out, as we fill out all the employees who receive taxpayers' money, who have great responsibility and great powers. Tomorrow we have one day to fix it. I would like to point out to colleagues that the Venice Commission, at the request of the Council of Europe, has specifically examined this legislation and said that this is a road to nowhere, this is a real restriction on civil rights. In fact, I'm not tired of reminding myself of this, we're a parliament that created very good anti-corruption legislation along with these very social organizations. You don't have to get yourself into a mess, you don't have to deal with that kind of nonsense. We need to correct this decision tomorrow in order to show that we are ready to enforce our own laws, not to cause trouble to other citizens. I'm talking to all my colleagues, and I'm sure it's in the interests of most people's deputies -- to remove this idiotic requirement, to show our European partners that we are Europeans, and to uphold real European standards by our own vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u24	Now the national deputy White is passing on the word to Alexander Wilkull. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u25	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the situation of food prices. Having many encounters with people from various cities and regions, I must point out that some of the products that were still part of the table of most Ukrainian citizens five years ago are being gradually transformed into luxury. Early in the 18th year, it showed that even compared to the beginning of last year, such products as meat, eggs, cream oil, cheese, and many others were more than 30, and in some places even in half of last year's price. This trend in the food market shows only one thing: an active government has completely removed its control and control of what is happening in the food and food market. This was primarily painful for the least protected Ukrainian citizens. But are there citizens in Ukraine today who feel socially protected? How many more of these are left in the state? The government has started and is implementing failed economic reforms that have actually become social experiments. The government’s illiteracy, its economic policy, has led to a repeated increase in municipal tariffs. In Ukraine, the unemployment rate is rising rapidly and the real income of citizens falls rapidly, whoever did not talk to the government about wage and pension increases. All of this is eaten up by inflation and price increases. The government has completely renounced its primary function and the obligation to provide social protection, to guarantee a decent standard of living for its citizens even when the state is not in the best of times for various reasons. I believe that the refusal of the Ukrainian government to control prices of primary food products is almost a criminal decision. While the government is playing the free market and believes that the price situation is stabilizing itself, millions of Ukrainian families are increasingly unable to afford to buy meat or fish, or even butter or cheese. Once again, basic foods, which had not caused any problems a few years ago, have turned into luxury. I call on an active government and an active Supreme Council, which, among other things, is called upon to control the work of the executive, to remember who they work for. As today’s need for a moratorium on rising municipal tariffs, a government’s rigid policy is essential to curb food prices and prevent them from growing further.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u26	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u27	I'm addressing the Supreme Council and I'm addressing the government. Start doing your job, fellow MPs, ministers and officials, or give your place to those who, unlike you, know how to cope.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u28	Please welcome the national deputy Keith. He is given the word by the national deputy Doubenko. And then the last performance was Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Keith Andrey, Streak, Jewry. So once again, I want to go back to a question that everybody has a lot of pain in the agro-industry sector, namely, two bills that we've really loved here -- 7403-2 and 8059 -- which I hope we have to look at in the hall. The world’s practice, which shows us countries with a high agricultural culture, speaks only of one thing. That a strong economy is an economy that is industrial. Countries that have given up deep processing, the industrialization of their economies, are always on the verge of developing their economies. All of the world's leading oil producing countries have export duties to protect national production. This is a common, healthy practice in order not to export raw materials but to do deep processing in their own country. First of all, I want to thank my self-help colleagues, who, while in business, have paid tribute to banning the export of sunflowers, making Ukraine the largest exporter of sunflower oil in the world. Yeah, business buddies who worked with Self-Help. I am very grateful for this. Next thing I know. I don't understand why we're saving now for what we need to take out. We're saving for taking the cheese out of Ukraine. I don't understand why there's suddenly interest in net exports of soybeans when it's clear to everyone that the main exporter of soybeans is the Russian company Commonwealth, which has now built a factory in Belarus and Russia under the processing of Ukrainian soy. I have a question about whether we will act consistently or whether we will change anything in our country. I think, just like my colleagues here, that we have to process absolutely everything in our country: from sawdust and forest to deep processing, to soy proteins and to everything that remains in our market. And the answer is not to look for external borrowing, but the answer is to look here, at the local resources that allow us to save money here and make an added value for each of the Ukrainians. I'm going back to the head again. We're not going to have a cheap consumer basket for people if we don't go back face-to-face to internal processing in the country and reduce VAT for an internal consumer of the Ukrainian. I believe that a healthy lobby of national production will win, and we will have a healthy economy, an industrialized economy, and we will stop being a raw asset to one country or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u30	Thank you. The last performance we have today in our traditional section of "partnership performances" is Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. I'd like to have a word with you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to go back to the session room, because we're starting to move on to the agenda. I remember everything, Seryozha. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, two of these features have been revealed today. The first feature is people talking about happiness for no more than five minutes, and all the other time they spend discussing problems that surround people. And a second phenomenon. In addition to man’s mortal enemy, our short - term nature, it turns out that Ukraine’s reformers are even more hostile, including those on the right hand side. For the patience of men, this greatest courage, has ended. Retirement. I'm going to quote you to a woman of 81, Barishevska of Kharkiv, who writes, "I can't go on living, I'm ashamed, after my retirement, I got 1,700 dollars. Read to these villain MPs and tell them how I'm going to live on this pension." That's the first one. And the second. Right now, every 20 people can't retire at 60 years of age, after 10 years, 50 percent of people won't be able to retire at 60 years of age, because they have to work until they're 65 years old. And these are the decisions you've made. So I suggest that we immediately, on Friday, listen to the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on an example of one of the rural areas that gave rise to pensions, not general conversation, but specifically. And the second problem is health. Dear colleagues, read the recommendations issued by the Ministry of Health regarding the implementation of medical reform. That's terrible! Why so far is the minister of health not appointed. I realize that the fed up political props are starting to prove to us that when the coalition agrees, we are the problem. Make up your mind. Then let them go to the district clinic and see how people live there. There is a bill that states that a person should not serve as a minister for more than two months. I propose, I ask, and I demand that this law be reviewed, that it be adopted, and that it be placed in the hands of the minister of health. I understand that we are powerless here, the Supreme Council is powerless, because it's assigned to one of the committees and they said that it would work as much as we would consider necessary. Then the question arises why such a government, and why is such authority in the country at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of one and the national MPs was mentioned at the time of the national MPs. Please, a word for Sergio Sobolev, one minute. I'm asking you not to mention in the wrong form of colleagues so that we don't exchange lines all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is where the representative of the Presidential faction confused the facts so he wouldn't tell a lie. If this representative has forgotten who appointed Mr. Medvedczuk as a contact group, I remind him, this is directly Peter Alexeiovich Poshenko, President of Ukraine, mentioned by the head of the Security Service at the time what happened in his presence. Who called Medvedchuk the most effective at the last press conference? This is Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko, if you have forgotten. Who gives direct flights to the only person in the country to Moscow, the godfather of President Putin? This is Dusty, no one else has the right to do it. So if you are chasing journalists who are filming Medvedchuk flying to Moscow on another occasion, remember Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko and visit him more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, two factions have come to the fore, from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party faction. And the factions are ready to replace the break with the application. And now we're giving the speech to the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u35	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Unfortunately, I will now be forced to leave Parliament and go to Chernigov. In Chernigov, professional license number 13 is closed. This leaf prepares snacks and other essentials for our profession economy. In this line of work, children mostly from low-income families, there are many orphans, children from rural families. And this is their opportunity to get knowledge, practical knowledge, which will enable them to realize themselves in adult life. The government once made a decision and transferred the system of vocational and technical education to local budgets. And that's the effect: by the decision of the Chernigian City Authority by licenses No. 13, where hundreds of girls and boys got the necessary knowledge to realize adult life, the local authorities shut down. Because she needs to put this plane in the center of Chernigov. And that's the situation with vocational and technical education institutions all over Ukraine. There are tens of thousands of children who are being taught such a wrong policy. Instead of pursuing national policies, providing the necessary knowledge for these children, then promoting youth employment, providing them with housing so that they can give birth without fear for their future, the authorities are conducting policies that deprive children of the ability to learn and realize in their home country. The Radical Party faction refers to the Montenegrin city head and to all the other city heads in Ukraine not to shut down a vocational and technical education facility. We demand that the government restore state funding for vocational and technical education and pursue policies to ensure that Ukraine has high-quality workforce. Because when the government tells us about economic growth, economic growth does not fall from heaven. Economic growth is done by working hands. Mechanizers, bricklayers, carpenters, metallurgy, miners, builders, those who make economic growth. And when high-skilled workers leave the country because of low wages, because of the lack of conditions to establish implementation, Ukraine is doomed to poverty. That is why we demand that the authorities increase wages in order for people to get a decent salary and this is an opportunity to stop migration. We demand that the authorities restore vocational and technical education so that Ukraine builds a strong economy for itself and not for our foreign competitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I'm still asking you to consider that today is a session day, and so that other important issues don't hinder us from making the decisions that we have to vote with you today, considering the agenda. We're moving to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u37	So, colleagues, the time for speeches by national MPs is over. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Today, we have as usual questions of ratifications and conventions, issues that unite the entire hall. All that matters is that we have enough in the room to make those decisions. I'm going to ask everyone, confidently, to take up jobs, to go into the hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. And we are moving on to the first issue of the agenda of the day session -- this is the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption No. 0166. In his time, Yuri Pavlovenko worked hard to get this convention to be held. And I'm sure right now we have a chance to make a positive decision when Ukraine joins the convention. I ask, colleagues, now to support everyone's proposal for a reduced procedure so that we can go through the agenda that we have quickly and effectively. And I ask everyone to support the proposal to review the draft Law 0166 on a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to support everyone in the hall, colleagues. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please don't leave the hall or go into the hall. I'm going to use names. Mr. Jaroslav, please prepare for the vote. Jaroslav Dubnevich! Please vote. So I'm putting the draft law to the vote so that we can take the draft of Law 0166 into consideration by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support everyone. Vote, colleagues, support, vote. [[10:48:08]] For-140. I'll do it again. And I'll remind you. Colleagues, questions. But there are two, two questions that concern the convention. It's just that if we go in full, we'll be able to look at just one of them. We just can't get to other issues, ratification issues. Colleagues! I'll let all the factions speak, let's support it. So I'm re-voting the proposal that we consider the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption (0166). Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[10:49:24]] For-143 I'll put the third time in, colleagues. I emphasize that I will allow all factions to speak. Simple. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we have two laws of co-existence, Taras, listen to me. Then let's take the first one for a shorter one, and the second one for a full one, or vice versa. All right, let me do this third time. There won't be any votes. We're going in full. I'll take the third time, if there's no votes, we'll go in full. So who wants us to look at 0166 in short terms, please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:51:04]] For-138 138. There's a position for us to look at the whole room, so we're moving on to the full procedure. The next law, I hope we can do it in a nutshell, so we'll be there by 12 o'clock. Agreed, colleagues, agreed? What about the next one? Then we'll be there in 12 hours. Then let's do it. if there's a positive vote. So let's move on to the full procedure. And the report is addressed to the minister of the justice of Petuhov Sergey. Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich, please. You have an order of 10 minutes, but if you're more concise, it'll allow you to go through both laws within 12 hours. You have till ten, but I recommend that we both get through to twelve. It's a deal, isn't it? Please, Sergey Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u38	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, we thank you for your attention to the important convention. They are really important to the Ukrainian government and to the Ukrainians. As a result of consistent government policies, the number of children under adoption is declining. In five years, the number of such children has been reduced by 30 percent from 26,000 to 17,000. This is especially due to various forms of child care and care in Ukraine. And in addition to adoption, which is a priority form, they are also introduced: care, foster care, placement in foster homes, and family homes. And in these forms of care there are 12,000 children, and only 5,000 so far are in children's homes of state-owned property, of these 5,000 about 3,000 can be potentially adopted abroad. Ukrainian family law directly presupposes national awareness, and the convention reaffirms this principle in article 4 and says that only a child who has been considered as a national adoption may be referred to interstate adoption. Furthermore, the convention makes it clear that adoption takes place according to the national legislation of the country of origin, so according to Ukrainian legislation. The convention does not change the order, principles, and grounds for adoption of Ukrainian children. Accordingly, apart from the priority of national adoption, there remains the provision of the Family Code, which allows interstate adoption only in the case of children over 5 years of age and who have been in the national database of children who may be adopted for more than a year. In fact, statistics show that foreigners are the most likely to adopt children or over 10 years of age, who unfortunately have little chance of being adopted in Ukraine, or children who have very severe diseases and thus receive fewer children for adoption by Ukraine. For example, among children with severe diseases, foreigners adopted 75 children in 2017 and Ukrainians adopted 2 or 2 such children. This is because the total number of adoptions by Ukrainian citizens is 1.5 thousand children, foreigners about 300. So today the Ukrainians actually adopt five times more children, and we actually support this trend. We are doing everything we can to ensure that as many children as possible find families in Ukraine. At the same time, interstate adoption is important in the case of children with severe illness, older children who are less likely to adopt. This convention has already been ratified by 98 nations, including our neighbours — Moldova, Armenia, Poland, Belarus. There is nothing in this convention that would contradict the national interests of Ukraine or the protection of Ukrainian children. Why do we need this convention? First, it will allow us to follow the fate of the children who are adopted. Currently, there are about 14,000 Ukrainian children who are adopted abroad. There's a downward trend there, too, five years ago there were 18,000. At the same time, without this convention, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unfortunately, has no real effective mechanisms to track the fate of Ukrainian children. Therefore, reports about the condition of children are received only from families who do so voluntarily. And unfortunately, only about 50 percent of the families that adopted Ukrainian children send such reports. Therefore, this convention is necessary for our consuls abroad to be able to receive reports and demand cooperation from the countries where these children are adopted. The same important position that this convention introduces is the introduction of accredited organizations of official, non-profit organizations that will be subject to verification by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine and which will assist foreigners in the process of adoption. Today, in Ukraine, unfortunately, there is a semi-legal system of mediation that is not controlled and unregulated. And there are cases of fraud where these middle-class organizations are trying to either give them to the heads of the children's homes or fake medical aids to sell more children. It is this convention that will allow us to establish an official order and control over interstate adoptions. Similarly, in previous discussions, a myth was raised that the convention favors foreigners or obliges us to adopt abroad, as well as that the convention allows for the adoption of same - sex couples. That's not true. The convention does not regulate these issues, the convention states in article 4 that these issues are governed by national legislation of the country of origin, and the Ukrainian Family Code expressly stipulates that adoption by single - sex couples is impossible. So this convention is really just. provides additional protection to Ukrainian children undergoing inter-State adoption is in the interests of Ukraine. This bill is supported by the Ombudsman and the President-in-Office for Children. Taking into account the discussions we have had in the four committees, this bill has been discussed in four committees, and we understand that there is a question of monitoring the procedure, and that bill that follows the agenda that changes the legislation of Ukraine needs to be finalized. So we ask the room to support this ratification with the same adoption of a law that would regulate this procedure within the country, which was adopted at the moment in the first reading, to finalize it and only after the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Legislation of Ukraine, which would introduce a control procedure, to finally transmit the report, the notification of the ratification of this convention in The Hague, to the Hague Conference of Private Law. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer any questions that concern the ratification of this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u39	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to the rapporteur, to the Deputy Minister of Justice regarding the ratification of the convention. Please, Igor Shurma, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u40	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd like to ask the speaker. I won't pay attention to the appearance, the dress code is the level of culture of every person, maybe someone even comes in with a red ball on their nose, that's his personal business. And I'm going to ask you a question about the question that you raised, that the question was discussed at the session of the four committees. So please tell people when you report that yesterday at a meeting of the Health Committee, this bill is not supported practically in the full membership of the committee. This is the first one. And the second. Please give a specific answer: How many years in Ukraine are they trying to extend this ratification? What presidents raised the question, and was it not voted on? Please answer, how many years has there been trying to force Ukraine to join this convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u41	Thank you, thank you for asking. And really, this convention has passed four committees, and in fact, the Foreign Affairs Committee, the head of the Hanna Hopko committee, I think, has told about the position of the profile committee. The Health Committee had the same discussion, and questions were really raised. And I hope that the representatives of the committee will sound the same as the comments that were made at the committee meeting. We have found understanding about the issues raised on the committee, and we are ready to work on them in a law that implements this convention for the second reading. As to how much of this convention is being considered by the Ukrainian Parliament. It's, if I'm not mistaken, the seventh time she's been ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Let's move on. Please, Olena Sotnik, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u43	Thank you. I have a question for the deputy minister. Please comment on the 19th article of the convention on the possibility of transferring a child to foster parents after the child has moved to the receiving State. To date, Ukrainian legislation has clearly established the duty of adoptive parents to take their children personally according to the shelter. This article establishes a more flexible mechanism, and it actually predicts that a child can be brought to a foreign state where he will, in principle, meet with adoptive parents. How much, though, do you think the guarantees provided for in Ukrainian legislation are more appropriate than those mentioned in this convention? How are we going to deal with this when we adopt the law on the implementation of this convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the convention in article 19 provides that the transfer of a child who is already adopted should be carried out under safe and appropriate conditions and, if possible, accompanied by adoptive parents or future adoptive parents. In fact, we can regulate such cases in the law, not many of them. And here will be the responsibility of the state to ensure that such a transfer is in safe and proper conditions. So I think we can write these cases in the law, consult with the Hague Conference, which is the practice of other states, in which cases this transfer is possible in the absence of adoptive parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u45	One last question. Please. No, it's not. We still have a few questions. Please, Alexandra Kugel, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u46	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Well, first of all, I'm going to say instead of you that this convention is literally being pushed through the parliament of Ukraine for 17 years. Please tell me what prevents the Ministry of Justice for 17 years from making direct agreements with countries, as civilized countries do, and not Third Peace countries that are willing to do anything to save children, and not just cripple them from starving to death? Make sure that there is a standard in Ukraine that foreigners have the right to take children only over five years of age. And secondly, you realize that by stretching this convention, which is not a treaty in the field of international law and there is no obligation to ratify it, you are not doing your most important task today as a substitute for this direction, you are not creating conditions for foreigners who really want to come and take our children and the disabled from the small one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u47	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u48	make all conditions and control the state to be able to control the state. So they won't be taken to the organs. And children over five years of age should not be taken for pedophiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the conditions under which foreigners can adopt Ukrainian children are laid down in the Family Code. It states that the child is five years old and that he has a year old in the national database of children who may be adopted. Appropriately, all opportunities are provided for the adoption of children by Ukrainians. I'll show you the statistics. We have statistics on how many children we have, who can be adopted over 11 years of age, and how many Ukrainians are in line, they want to adopt these children. Order of digits: children over 10 years of age -- about 11,000, wishing to adopt families of children of that age -- 25. It's about control. The most developed and civilized countries are parties to this convention. There are parties to this convention all the major states whose citizens adopt Ukrainian children. It's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u50	Let me finish 30 seconds. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u51	The issue of bilateral agreements was raised after the convention was ratified. Other countries, our partners don't understand why bilateral agreements are needed and refuse to enter into negotiations with us. Because there's a convention that works not only for Europe, but it's ratified by Kyrgyzstan, and Belarus, and Moldova, all of our neighbours who have similar legal systems and regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u52	Thank you. Let me ask you the same question. Did the Russian Federation ratify this convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u53	The Russian Federation did not ratify this convention. And even if it does, adoption decisions are made by Ukraine in the best interests of the child. The Ministry of Social Policy, which will make such a decision, has every opportunity to refuse, in the event of adoption to Russia, if it considers that adoption would be contrary to the interests of the child.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. Please return to the government's bed. I now invite you to the floor to report to the head of the committee of profile in the foreign affairs of Hanna Hapko. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to thank all the deputies today who have asked critical questions about the ratification of this convention. Because we're actually talking about the fate of Ukrainian children and we're taking responsibility through, in particular, the mechanism for joining Ukraine in this convention. When we considered on our committee, especially I will read you a decision, we made it clear that we are asking you to support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole with the committee's amendment, which proposes a part of the second draft law to be drafted. In particular: "This law takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and cooperation in matters of inter-State adoption. So the convention won't work as long as the Ukrainian Parliament, and here I call on all the profile committees to develop those active mechanisms when the conditions for accreditation of these agencies in the area of inter-State adoption will be controlled by their activities, by the Ministry of Social Policy, by other authorities. So that we don't see what we see for 26 years of independence when the issue of adoption of children is about corruption, fraud, because those responsible on the ground have access to databases, they have clear information about children, and as a result, we have statistics and a lot of manipulations. So in fact, in our decision of the committee, we are calling for us to join the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Inter-State Adoption at the same time as it becomes effective when Ukraine joins the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Inter-State Adoption, and this bill, which is now proposed for first reading, has been voted on. We've talked to colleagues today, especially from Self-Help, Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko will propose a statement, especially to this convention, which we also propose to take into account. What I want to say right now is that it's very important for us to have reports on the living conditions and upbringing of adopted children of Ukrainian citizens who remain one of the main controls of living conditions and the condition of children, which are much more effective. And when we talk today about there are a lot of problems with adoption, we can solve this by joining Ukraine in the Hague Convention on Child Protection and Cooperation. What is involved in this convention? This is, first of all, the harmonization of the adoption procedure in Ukraine with the procedure of the States Parties to the Convention. The other one. It is the creation of guarantees to ensure intercountry adoption in the best interests of the child, a system of cooperation between treaty states and the maintenance of such guarantees as to prevent the abduction, sale or trafficking of children. It is also very important for us to have reliable information about adoption candidates, to improve the mechanisms for monitoring the rights of children adopted by foreigners, to ensure an additional channel of interaction through central authorities, and in Ukraine it is the Ministry of Social Policy, as one of the guarantors of the commitments of the host State. It is also very important for us to improve the monitoring of the rights of Ukrainian children who, as a result of adoption, move to other countries and to guarantee recognition in the treaty states of Ukraine's adoption decisions in accordance with the convention. So, colleagues, I can tell you there are a lot of different questions, which are, especially today, questions or myths, which. Today, we are talking about how the convention can help increase the adoption of Ukrainian children abroad, but again, Ukrainian legislation allows foreigners to adopt children who are 5 years of age and are not less than 1 year old for adoption in the Ministry of Social Policy, except in cases where the adoptive parent is a parent of a child when the child is suffering from a disease brought to a special list of diseases. And if we look at 2017, 75 children with special needs were adopted by foreigners, including HIV, Down syndrome, disability, Ukrainians, and 22 children were adopted. And so, colleagues, I would also like to say that 98 countries today, which, the world that are participating in the convention, are among them the United States, Italy, Spain, France, Israel, Germany, Canada. And the countries in question refuse to make bilateral agreements with Ukraine on co-operation because they are party to the convention. In addition to these nations, our neighbors, like Moldova, are also. So we would be happy to answer your questions again, and we distributed the materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u56	I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, your question. Sergey Soboljevo answers the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u57	Dear reporter, would you please tell us if the committee examined the facts as to how much alien children were adopted in comparison to severe diseases? And the key question. Regrettably, the transfer of these functions to intermediate structures removes from the State the responsibility for the further fate of such children and the research into which families they have become, what is still going on in these countries. So I think that's the most crucial question that's triggered the warning ever since this issue was raised in Parliament. So the further fate and participation of the state and state authorities empowered to track the fate of the physical, moral and other state of such children who may be in the best of hands but may then take any action? That's why this moment is the most plausible in this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Sergei. When we examined and listened, it was evident, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was on issue at 1 / 02 C.E. In 2018, out of the 5,000 261 reports that would be available to foreign diplomatic institutions on the basis of the reporting period, 3,000 527 were received -- 54 percent of the reports, which is the further percentage of children. There are troublesome countries, particularly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which clearly state that this is Israel, Spain, in which adopters do their obligations improperly. And in particular, the question of what further control, such as the Ministry of Social Policy, is about those agencies that will be able to work in the area of inter-State adoption. And that is precisely why there is an additional bill that we are proposing today to look at the other, which is amending dozens of different bills in Ukraine, in order to strengthen the control that is not yet available. Because at the district level there are, say, databases in the register, but a national control system that is effective and accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u59	Let me finish. 30 seconds. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u60	That's why we're actually saying that this is the second bill that we're proposing to consider, that there are changes, and this bill is about central authorities that are directly accredited in Ukraine and that have to meet national legislation in order to protect interests most effectively. We're finally coming to the question of how this corruption, which has been for years, through professional control and right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u61	Thank you. The final question, please, is the People's Deputy of Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u63	Sisoyenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u64	Mrs. Hanna, thank you so much for your work, and I have such a question for you. Say, please, between 2000 and 2016, including foreign citizens, about 24,000 431 people were adopted -- children who were deprived of parental care. The Convention does not address the issue of informing the host State about the living conditions and upbringing of children who were adopted before joining the convention. How do you think the situation of informing those children who were adopted before joining this convention will be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. At the same time, I want to point out that what you're going to make changes to make an application for the 28th article of the convention, which is that we talked to the Ministry of Justice, we're going to take that into account. I want to say that now, thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, in their functions, the Consular Institution or the diplomatic representation of Ukraine is overseeing the rights of the adopted child, on the basis of the mandate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the principles and norms of international law for the protection of children. And what specific steps are being taken? Interviews with adoptive parents during the Consular account of the adopted child, visits to adoptive families, and adopted children. Analysing the reports received on the conditions of upbringing and health of adopted children from adoptive parents and competent authorities in the country of residence. Communication with adoptive parents and adopted children about the conditions and health of the adopted child as a result of which the act is carried out. And that's why when we say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u66	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u67	And in fact, this convention, together with the changes to the various laws of Ukraine that a professional other committee develops, should allow it to improve control over the rights of Ukrainian children, who, as a result of adoption, move to other states and guarantee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Colleagues, I hope you've heard the solid answers, both from the Deputy Minister of Justice, and from the head of the profile committee. Mrs. Hanna, I'm begging you to come back to work. And I'm asking you to sign up for the discussion, to discuss the bill, to ratify the appropriate convention, the factions. I'm asking the factions to sign up. Please, Sergey Sobolev, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Why did our faction insist on a full discussion procedure? Because unfortunately, you can see that neither the government nor the regulation of this issue is regulated by legislation, so far, in all these 17 years trying to ratify this convention, it's never been established. What are the key points? Sadly, adoption has become a very serious shadowy, dirty, and disgusting business. In its time, there were limitations when children could only be adopted with serious health problems, even diseases with which only children could be given and adopted by foreigners could be listed. But there were also scammers who were in the appropriate offices who found loopholes when children with AIDS were not affected by AIDS, and they were placed in the database just to pay for the adoption of these children in the shadow register. Such incidents are among the Ukrainians who live in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in many other countries who wanted to, they are citizens of these countries who wanted to adopt severely ill children, but they were given such sums that they did not even want to approach the authorities. And that's why the key issue of this convention is most important, yes, we need to do everything we can to make sure that no child in our country, just like it is in the United States or in any other country, and the day actually doesn't stay in the House of Baby or, more importantly, in the house for those who don't have parents. You see, in key developed countries, the turn that is, it is already the turn of the tens and maybe hundreds of people, waiting for a child to be abandoned by parents or some tragic accident in the family. We have a different situation, we have these kids living in maybe the best conditions, but without parental care. That's why our faction insists that the key question, what is the further fate of this child? Because just putting a child into the richest family or the richest country is not the solution. The most important thing for a child to be really further under the constant supervision and control of embassies, representations, where the lists of these children should be a constant question of ambassadors or authorized persons in embassies, where they should go to these families, to investigate the fate of these children. That's why this very difficult process of ratification of this convention is taking place. So I think we're doing the wrong thing. Let's first settle this with our legislation to cover all the loopholes, all the possibilities that don't allow control. And only those countries that agree to such control should be allowed to adopt our children. And I think that's still the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u70	15 seconds to complete, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u71	That this right should be given first and foremost to children who have very severe diseases that may not be cureable in our country and which may be cureable in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! The word is now given from the Self-Help faction of Irina Sisoyenko. They'll come out of the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u73	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Indeed, the issue of adoption and international adoption is a very sensitive question, and a question that needs an extremely high responsibility from those in this room right now. So, what's relevant about the legislative settlement, the implementation of the international convention, is really important, but provided that a very well-formed mechanism for the implementation of this international convention is in place. The Self-Help faction insists on two basic things to be provided in the form of the implementation of this convention. First, this convention should enter into force only at the same time as the entry into force of Ukrainian legislation, which builds a mechanism for the protection of children’s rights. The other one. It's a very important standard. The Self-Help faction insists that a new paragraph be added to the bill on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Inter-State Adoption. The application to article 28 of the Convention, which should be set forth in the following edition, takes into account the provisions of articles 17, 21 and 28 of the Ukrainian Convention, states that a child who resides in Ukraine may leave the territory for adoption to a State that only takes effect after the court’s decision to adopt it has been taken. That is, the same mechanism, solely for a court decision that exists under the Ukrainian Family Code for Ukrainian citizens, should be extended to foreign citizens. Only on the basis of his own claim, solely by his personal appeal to the courts, the conduct of all court proceedings and the decision of the court, and including by his personal presence, the question of the adoption of a child in Ukraine may be raised in relation to foreign citizens. So the Self-Help faction insists that this implementation of international agreements, which should primarily form and protect the rights of every child citizen of Ukraine, should take into account these two amendments that I have just mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u74	Please, Igor Shurma. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u75	Igor Shurma, faction of the Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, throughout the period of independence of our country, Ukraine has pursued a policy of national adoption. Today, the problem of adopting a child to citizens of Ukraine and other nations today is absolutely no problem. The requirements are, of course, more severe. On what basis is this policy based? First of all, in 2011, we ratified the European Convention on the Adoption of Children in an effort to comply with European standards. Moreover, the Hague Convention’s standards, which met Ukraine’s national interests, were also implemented by Ukraine’s legislation. The necessary changes have been made: the Family, Civil Procedure, Criminal Codes of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. The Ukrainian Child Protection Act was adopted. What is the subject today? Let's call things our names. I fully agree with the previous speakers. But I would like you all to pay professional attention to the standards of the articles of the convention that we are offered today: 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 22. These are the articles that legitimize mediated activities, stressing private accredited organizations for foreign adoption. Such activity is prohibited by article 216 of the Family Code. Let's decipher what mediating is, so that's roughly the sale of children. If the middleman works, he should have, this middleman, the money to function. Where will he take it? He'll take suggestions. Now let's see who has the right to adopt. Do you believe that a single man or a single woman will adopt? No, they adopt families. Now let's see what a family in Ukraine is -- a man and a woman. And let's clarify the semantics of the word "family" abroad, that except for a man and a woman, that's a man and a man, that's a woman and a woman. And who has what guarantee when we approach this procedure that such a family will not actually invite our children? Countermeasures against Ukrainian children must not be legalized, the whole problem of social orphans, the eradication of mass poverty must be addressed. Our Ukraine has turned into a donor country. And the last thing I'd like to point out. This convention is a treaty in the field of private international law, and its ratification is not binding on Ukraine, does not result from any international obligations of Ukraine, nor is it in any way linked to the European integration efforts of the Ukrainian State. Today we must say, for those who have a password, 'Ukraine is above all!', you cannot vote for this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u76	Next statement, please, Sergey Lechchenko. Svetlana Zlatczyk from the rostrum will be. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u77	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians and distinguished colleagues! As we consider this convention, we should say that it is not really our international commitment. We're looking at this document and we're talking about this legislation because it can help our children who are in orphanages. There are a few myths that are very actively distributed, including in this room that I want to talk about. Myth one is about so-called private companies that will take advantage of it. In fact, please pay attention to this convention and read it. It's private companies that are now taking advantage of intermediation between our nations. Today's convention that we're voting on, and this just gave us an opportunity to look at it on our committee when we're looking at it. The State is provided with additional controls to prevent such mediators from taking advantage of adoption. And this is myth number one. The second myth. Today, there is a problem that when our children are adopted abroad, in our country (the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our consuls) there is no possibility to go to our families and ask what happens to this child, where she lives, what conditions she lives under, because under the legislation of the states of which our children become citizens, families are not obliged to do so. By ratifying today's convention, we're allowing our consuls to check how these children live, and if there's a problem all of a sudden, these 5,000 children who live abroad today will be able to get protection, they'll be able to get protection from our country that we're going to give to today's convention. Likewise, colleagues, I want to draw your attention: for 17 years we have not approved this convention, it does not do us any good, because the democratic countries of the world, the civilized countries of the world such as the United States, Germany, France, Canada, have approved this convention. Do you have any doubt that these countries do not care how their children live? No, it's not. Because this convention provides them with additional mechanisms to enable the State to care for its children. One more thing I want to say. In fact, Ukrainians adopt much less children with special disabilities, with diseases. During the last year alone, more children were adopted four times or even five times by foreigners. And this is an opportunity, including helping such children to find a family and not stay in children’s homes. And the last. A myth about the same - sex family. Yes, in some national legislations there is such a norm, but please read the convention. Child adoption, including adoption of decisions by the Ministry of Social Policy in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. And since our legislation says, "The Ukrainian family is a woman and a man," there will be no possibility of giving the child to another family. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u78	Please. "Peter Duster's Block" is asking for a vote in favour. Now, please, Mr. Ungurian's word, which represents a position, I take it, factions of the People's Front, not just their own, but factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u79	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, today we have come up with an extremely important issue because of the full procedure. This is a question of orphans in Ukraine and the existence of a large number of children who are counted in thousands of children, thousands of children’s fates. Let us take a deeper look at what is causing the orphanage in Ukraine today. What Is the Cause? Usually we're used to understanding fatherhood and its root cause, it's biological factors, when either parent or both just die, get out of life. But unfortunately, our hall should know about this, and the main reason for orphans today is social factors, and social orphans are today the principal form that prevails over biological orphans. So orphans become children who fail to fulfill their parental responsibilities of parenting, protection, and assistance. And very often, either parents, or government authorities, are forced to seek the removal of parental rights for such children. So today we need to speak and fight, not with the consequences, but with the primary causes. First of all, talk about not having or having as few children as possible to adopt, for if there is a happy family where parents perform their roles as fathers and mothers, where grandparents perform their role as patriarchs in the family, in the caregivers, and in such a family, there is no problem at all and no issue of adoption. But when we have 63 percent of divorces today, 63 percent of Ukrainian families get divorced, it's a derivative of social orphans. When we have more than 60 percent of single - parent families today, we have these problems. We're today as a state in the state budget -- and here I've raised Ukraine's State budget for the 18th year -- we're predicting more than half a billion dollars to allocate a subsidy for the development of family and other forms of education. I think it's the best formula to raise the children that there are today. Because I call attention to this topic as a priority job, as a seed work in our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Please ask the deputies to prepare for writing in the discussion. And in the meantime, while the recording is being done, I invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Madam Chairman! I will also allow myself to take the floor by discussing this important convention from the Ukrainian national deputies. This is indeed a very delicate question, and we need to approach the issue, the vote, first and foremost, by coming out of the child’s rights and interests. And now, during the discussion, there were completely controversial statements in this room that, you know, we're very worried that a child is going to be a commodity, but they're absolutely right about how many speculations there are about what, in fact, children are often passed on as goods. They say that we need to improve -- it's absolutely fair -- we have a monitoring system for adopted children abroad, and they say we don't have one. So let's make this better. And this convention gives us a chance to improve that. I did not by chance ask Mr. Deputy Minister whether I ratified this convention by the Russian Federation. And we all heard the answer, "No." Because there's a "cuff to the brain" in the ground. And they don't allow children who don't get adopted in the Russian Federation to find happiness somewhere in a loving family. Recently, the whole of Ukraine applauded an American astronaut who had come to Ukraine for the birthplace of his adopted child. So why are we applauding with one hand our foreign partners and colleagues who gave the child a chance to be happy, and with the other hand for 17 years, really, "cuffs give us brains" and we don't ratify this convention?Oh, my God! It's Down's World Day. We can wear socks, panchos in different colors, but give children with Down syndrome a chance to be adopted by a family that takes them for adoption abroad, when maybe today we don't have that kind of, you know, social platform or social opportunities, we don't give. So if we fail to ratify this convention with you today, it will be a great sin, especially for believing people here, a great sin. And it is absolutely important that this convention lays down the points that colleagues from Self-Help and the honourable Mrs. Hopko spoke of. That this convention will be considered ratified and will enter into force on the day when we will adopt and improve Ukrainian legislation that will establish those norms that today hinder or prevent anyone from being more sincere in this matter. As far as the Ministry of Social Affairs is concerned, it will have a more important role to play here. As far as our foreign embassies are concerned, they will monitor the situation of adopted children. This convention is "adopted" by all the major countries in the world. It is rude that, in fact, the former, Mrs. Karpachov, authorized by human rights, who was to protect human rights, along with one faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u82	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u83	boycotted the acceptance of this issue. My colleagues, I respect the many things Mrs. Carpachov did, but it was her fault. Let's fix it today. We have to ratify this convention today, but it's going to work, really, with the law that we're going to approve with you, and there's going to be all these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u84	Thank you. So now we've finished the factions. Now, speak to the national MPs. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the National MP record. 15 minutes for speeches by national deputies. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please hold the record. Please log in. Please, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to give an example of one child, the birthplace of the city of Hmelnick, Oksana Bondarczuk, who had been in a children's home for a long time, almost seven years, and who was adopted by American Gay Masters. The child had partially amputated legs. And you know, today this girl has become a three-time prowler of the Paralympic Games. This is an example of the fact that today, just because of these examples, we need to adopt this concept. Because so far the weak side has been what is, in fact, a lot of examples, negative examples, when our consulates, diplomatic services can't keep looking at those children who are adopted. So I'm asking everyone, we need to make this decision. And the example of other countries doing so is therefore an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, give me your word. Igor Šurma. Dear Mr. Igor Shurma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u87	Igor Shurma, faction of the Opposition Block. Dear leading discussions, you know, I would ask you not to go to Karpachov, because then you will have to go to Yanukovich, who initiated the consideration of this issue and insist that this convention be adopted. Let's do it today without a last name or family. I just want to tell you one thing. Today the ratification of this convention does not correspond to national legislation. Why? Because the changes made to the Family, Civil Procedural, Criminal Codes and the Code of Administrative Offences and the Child Protection Act do not correspond to this convention. Name things with your names. This legalizes the mediocre activity of private accredited organizations. And no matter what you say, there are no problems today with the adoption of citizens of other states in accordance with our legislation in Ukraine. If you're talking about that corruption schemes were created in the past and there was bad power, you've come a coalition of European, European coalitions with new standards, with new efforts to fight corruption, bring people here, fight this corruption, set an order, but don't break Ukrainian legislation today. With regard to the obligation to accept, I stress once again that this convention has nothing to do with the European integration efforts of the Ukrainian State; it is not mandatory because this convention corresponds to the sphere of international private law. And now I'm going to tell you how other states are doing where they don't fit international documents to national legislation. Recently, in Slovakia, the Istanbul Convention was ratified in Parliament. They didn't ratify it, and the main reason is, you know what? You know, you just don't talk. This convention does not correspond to the Constitution and the legislation of Slovakia. It is a country of the European Union that has been able to defend its national legislation and rights. I'm stressing again, yes, we have abuse in this area. I'm the deputy governor who worked on this subject, and I can tell you, it's terrible. But you give your people, and within the framework of legislation, take away what was the past state, we haven't been able to do all of that. I have to tell you, you know, one more thing. If we're in that room, if we can't stop the transport by wagons, by echelons of roundwood, let's not let our children get out because we're helpless. Let us act according to our legislation. You can't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u88	Please, John Sporish. Here's your word. You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u89	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I ask you to pass the word to Oksani Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u90	Please, Mrs. Oksana Bilozer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u91	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Peter Prashenko faction will support the adoption of the bill. And we believe that the position of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine to vote on this legislative initiative today, when we celebrate Down's children, is symbolic and very important. You know, we're very fond of talking in this room and saying, "No other kids." Why do we say that? Since there were never any orphans in Ukraine, there was always a moral law in Ukraine, if there was an orphan in the family, the orphan would have to be adopted by the family. So this is an abnormal phenomenon for Ukraine. But given that we have a profound social dimension today, and many different factors that have given rise to such a social phenomenon as orphanages in Ukraine, we have to join those international initiatives that give us the right to ensure the safety, life, development and implementation of the child. The convention has two positions, the protection of children who have already been adopted. Why is this so important today? Because a key mechanism is information for a child that is adopted. Finally, at the national level, we will have mechanisms that will allow the Ukrainian State to ask questions and, more importantly, the obligation to respond to what conditions the child is in. And the second important position of the convention is that orphans, disabled children, who cannot be helped for objective reasons today to realize their rights and full life development, will be able to be adopted and reach democratic countries where the mechanisms for the protection and development of those children are much better implemented. That is why it is a humane event in our Parliament today. And I urge everyone to reject any speculation on the subject, especially that we will have the opportunity by improving our internal legislation to bring it into line, and most importantly, to ensure the right of an orphan child to a quality, beautiful and successful life in the world. Because we're not alone, we're living in a globalized, beautiful world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u92	Thank you for your position. Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u93	Please pass it on to Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u94	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. This is going to be discussed by the deputies. You didn't sign up for anyone, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, a well-known politician preparing for the performance, made remarks in the fields: "The arguments are weak to raise the voice." Here we are, with emotion and voice, trying to squeeze each other instead of seriously discussing the problem. There is a problem, there is a problem. I can tell you that there is a children's home in Novograd Wallinsky where children are kept with extremely complex diagnosis. And many of them are adopted, including abroad, and they become normal children. Obviously, when Ukraine can't solve this problem, we have to use the humanity that is being demonstrated outside of Ukraine. But at the same time, I think, instead of releasing these tracts, which give absolutely nothing to the soul or the heart, you have to give information about how many children are in these houses today, what is their condition that these children have problems with? What exactly does the Ukrainian State do to support these children? And what help can we get from outside Ukraine? Unfortunately, it doesn't. There is no such thing as what we see in our view of older ones. Note, dear colleagues, in virtually every area, there are places to keep lonely people who have never been around before. But what are they doing now? It's just that these people are rooted out, removed, let's say, in two or three places, in the area. Instead of supporting these people, instead of setting an example that we don't throw them on their own, they act on the principle of "out of the heart and out of the eye." It's an irresponsible policy of government. The same is true of children. Why don't you take a look at how many orphans we have in our living parents? Why boarding schools are closed, where methods are worked out, and where the child is cared for. Why are they being closed? They say we have to go to normal schools. True, when parents are normal. Then these children will not go to school at all. So I think we have to adopt our national legislation first by analyzing everything that's going on and then by accepting what you're proposing. And I would ask you not to rely on European standards and standards. And consider whether they listen to us when we approach them to ask their children what is happening to them and how they feel. Dear colleagues! We need to make normal, serious decisions. And I thank the MPs that, although we have been able to come up with a broader discussion on this issue. And so: two in favour, two in opposition, and they cried, and went away, and forgot. That can't be right. This should not be the case, especially with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u96	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u98	Please, Mrs. Queen, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, this is a very important decision. And one question: will this decision bring any benefit to orphans today? I don't think so. Because, first of all, we have to be responsible for the children of Ukraine and not translate this responsibility into foreign states right now. If we no longer have the sense of how to deal with children, how to protect them, how to reform the system of Soviet interns today, we have already developed a national programme in 2013 that will ensure that they are completely eliminated by 2020, but the government is not implementing this programme. The government today is easier to join the International Convention and legalize child trafficking today. Because, Your Honor, if you look closely at this convention, there are no instruments to predict state control, where the declaration and we have no right to change anything in this convention. That is why we can speak very beautiful words here, but if the state today refuses children, that is the end of it, after which there is nothing to talk about. Today, when there is an orphanage in the country, when children’s homes are filled with children, and we personally have a problem in the east, we need to first develop a program of support for adoptive parents, stimulation, today’s creation of children’s homes of family type, treatment programs, and support for children. And unite our efforts with you to implement these programs, and it is easier to support the convention today, to say everything we have done, we have made this declaration. But tell me, even though one child after that will feel protected in our country? No, it's not. That's why the Opposition Block won't vote for it today. And we suggest that we look at those issues that would really be aimed at protecting and supporting all the children in our country, and first and foremost, orphans. Take a look at social protection today and do everything we can to protect the children of Ukraine in our country, Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u100	Last performance. Please, Sergey Lechchenko, allow me to speak. Colleagues, I'm sorry, you guys, your faction, this is now. Sergey just a minute. Now comes the speech from the National Deputies, your faction didn't get into this letter, you didn't get a statement from the faction? You want to join the discussion, so say it, fine. After this. Now come the speeches from the national MPs. Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u101	Dear Ukraine! You know how sad it is to hear rumors that Ukrainian children who have special needs to be released to their families so that they can have a normal life so that they can have normal families. From the people who took their children to the best universities in London, who arranged their children abroad for the money they stole from you, Ukrainian citizens! When they're for money, which because of all the different schemes, they're going to rip off and then they're going to have their own personal happiness. And when they tell us that we don't have money in the country, we don't have to steal it. Because you know that there are enough opportunities in our country to be a modern, prosperous country that provides all jobs and social standards. But this requires that there be no system where a few families simply rob and form their oligartic clans through politics and then organize their children at these universities abroad. And let the orphans in Ukraine have, and live in vain. And there's even a story when our colleague, Irina Suslova, was driving around and seeing children tied up in Chernigiv County in boarding because there's no way, there's not enough social workers to just provide for children with special needs. So they better die in Ukraine or get a chance to get a new family and have normal living conditions? And such systems of adaptation are in civilized countries, which must be implemented in the same way in Ukraine, but they do not have a stone century and a rhetoric that is characteristic of totalitarian nations. And our convention allows diplomatic representatives and consuls to visit such families abroad and to see for themselves whether these standards meet or not those who take on families who adopt children. As for rhetoric about same-sex marriages, it's just an attempt to intimidate Ukrainian society again by what seems to be real thanks to this convention. That's not true. The convention clearly states that this will not be possible. And what's even more relevant to resolving this issue -- same-sex marriages -- is in no way considered in this paragraph of the agenda. And the last thing I want to say. There's only half a minute left. You can see right now, we've got Wednesday, a working day, but half the chairs in the hall are empty. This is because politics is viewed in Ukraine as a means of making money. We need to change the electoral system. And today, we're going to be on the Supreme Council's legal committee on the election code. Do you know what the agenda is? 49th, 49th unit of the day. Do you believe that his hands will reach him? Of course, they will not come because there is a purpose to do everything possible to continue robbing politics to do it through politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, first of all, we are continuing the sessional session 15 minutes before considering this question. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko. The Radical Party faction was unable to register when the factions represented positions. You're welcome to speak. During the discussion, some of these questions were essentially raised. We'll summarize in a minute, Mrs. Hopko and Mr. Petuhov, the myths that exist, unfortunately, among some MPs about convention rules. Please, Your Honor, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u103	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear listeners to the "The Council", viewers, respected citizens of Ukraine! We're considering what now? Can our children be adopted by foreign citizens? No, it's not. You can do that, and it's a contagion. Are there obstacles in our legislation that cannot be done? But it's probably not much. We're looking at a convention that sets someone up -- right, not duty. Can Ukraine ask a foreign country: How does Vanya or Petya live in a foreign family? Sure. Are they obliged to answer? No, it's not. So what are we talking about? The kids are our future, the axiom, it's like Dnipro falls into the Black Sea. Is this a problem with countries with children? Big problem. Orphan trouble? Yes. With children with disabilities? Yes. The state does not want to care, perhaps it is a major pain. Let's open the border and give our children abroad. What are they going to do with them? Will they be examined for parts, for organs, or will they be brought up in normal families? And no one will know. Why? Because there is no responsibility on this side and no control on our side. So let's talk about going, not walking. This convention doesn't provide legal mechanisms and it's not a myth, as they say in the high hall right now, it's a fact. Texts need to be read, everything is written there, and, more faithfully, it is not written about Ukraine’s control over its children. What else did we not make money for? You can't sell the land. You can't sell the land. You can't sell the land. Let's sell the kids. Let us speak plainly, this bill allows for the organization of commercial enterprises for the sale of Ukrainian children to foreign families. So they're going to get some kind of copyright reward there, not to say profit, because it's a shame. So call things your names: We'll create commercial enterprises from selling our children to foreigners. What have we come to? Are you good people, crazy or something? Well, you can't vote for that. Read the lyrics, and then tell us how wonderful it is to live for our children abroad. Yes, it is necessary for them to live well so that foreigners are honest, decent to adopt and that we, the State of Ukraine, can control and care for our children even after their adoption abroad. We don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we have heard different thoughts in the discussion. Most of the questions I'm going to try to sum up in the discussion were the following: this is a question of same-sex marriage, which, by the way, is a bonded marriage as a union between a man and a woman, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine; as this issue is regulated, does it not enter into conflict with the convention that we are discussing. And secondly, the work of agencies that will be involved can be engaged after the ratification of the Convention in the area of adoption of Ukrainian children. I'd like to ask that these key questions be answered in summary by both the deputy minister and Mrs. Hopko and then. We ask our colleagues to return to the session room because there will be a vote on the matter under discussion. Mr. Petuhov, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u105	Thank you. With regard to adoption by one-stop-shop couples. The convention in article 4 makes it clear that interstate adoption can take place only in accordance with the laws of the State of origin. The Ukrainian Family Code states in part three of article 211 that there can be no single - sex adoption. There can't be such an adoption from Ukraine anyway, and the convention isn't. It doesn't change this regime, it doesn't change it, it says, "Look at the legislation of Ukraine." Regarding Mr. Kuprienka's comments on income and income. You said you should read the texts. Article 11 of the convention: "Accredited organization has only non-profit objectives." Unprofitable goals are article 11 of the convention. One last moment. Today's Down's Children's Day. In Ukraine there are 129 such children to be adopted. Last year, foreigners adopted 11 children with Down syndrome, Ukrainians with zero. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I? Allow such children to grow up under normal conditions. Because such a child, when he grows up, cannot be alone, he needs care all his life. Allow these children to grow up in normal families, in a system where health care will provide them with the opportunity to live a normal life. That's what this convention is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, one minute. I very much ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall. I very much ask everyone in the classroom to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. This is an important convention that has been in discussion for a long time. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please conclude, the head of the Anna Hopko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for the discussion. And I think it's a period of responsibility where each of us finally has to take an important step to improve this system of state, interstate adoption. As I said again, the committee is asking to support the committee's decision and to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole with the committee's right, in which we propose that a part of the second draft of the Act should be drafted in such a way that this law takes effect at the same time as the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children. And here's the finally profile committee that drafted the bill, which is the second in the agenda today, where we have to create a hard mechanism to control these agencies that are going to do it. Finally, the problem of corruption, bribery, which existed for seventeen years, and the fact that Ukrainian children were traded, made money, and created special structures. That's why I'm proposing, aside from this amendment of the committee that I've read that it's going to take effect at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u108	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u109	At the same time, according to article 28 of articles 17, 21 and 28 of the Convention, Ukraine states that a child who resides in Ukraine may leave its territory for employment in a State that accepts only after the court’s decision to adopt it has taken effect. And now for access to information. Please read the convention articles, and there is article 9, where the system is created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u110	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u111	So, the first point, it's going to go along with the law that we have to draw up. The other one. What you said "self-help" to make. concerning the establishment of the host State only after the court's decision has become effective. And the third. If we read the convention, we see the creation of a system of cooperation between treaty states to ensure that guarantees are respected, and also to prevent the abduction, sale of children or trade. And implement the mechanism. Then, if we look at it, article 23 of this convention, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u112	How long does it take, Hanna? We're done. So let's all take jobs. Let's move on to making decisions. Hanna, how old are you? One minute, Hanna Hopko. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u113	Colleagues, these questions are also answered immediately. The convention contains an article that strengthens the system of cooperation on intercountry adoption between the competent authorities of the treaty States in the area of adoption, its position is required to monitor the adoption process and the observance of the rights of the child after adoption, both for the State of origin and for the State that accepts it. And the second. Article 9 of the convention establishes the State’s obligation to request information about the adopted State. It's in the convention. So now it's up to us, and this is the responsibility, in this bill, which stands second, to make such mechanisms of control, and finally in 26 years of independence, to put order in order so that the issue of interstate adoption is not subject to trade, corruption, fraud. And if Parliament does so, we can, in fact, not by populism, but by responsible steps, guarantee protection for children during adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u114	Thank you. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. So please all stop the political discussions, we move on to the decision-making process. Please enter the hall, take your seats. And I'm voting on the bill to join Ukraine in the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Interstate Adoption (No. 0166), on the proposal of the committee, on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:10:07]] For-166 I'll bet you the next offer. To adopt the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children (0166) as a basis. Support me, colleagues, on the ground. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:10:37]] For-174 Next offer. According to the Rules, the committee has a re-reading session. Will we support this proposal? So, colleagues, I'm proposing a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children (0166) to refer to the committee for a second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. To read again. Colleagues, support everyone, support this proposal. Please vote. [[12:11:17]] For 178. And the final offer. This is to correct the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, please mobilize so we don't lose the bill. Support this proposal. This is our last chance. Thus, 0166 is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children, the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:11:56]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. So, unfortunately, our colleagues were unable to make a positive decision. This is, indeed, at any time now, and I don't understand the factions that proposed this convention themselves the previous time, but I haven't been able to vote today. Therefore, the draft Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption (0166) was rejected. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:45, I ask everyone to come into the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u115	I'm asking everyone to return to the session room. We continue our plenary session. This will be a violation of the Rules immediately. But I'm asking everyone to return to the session room. It's our day of work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we do not have a few drafters to consider today in the session room, and at their request, on their request, we remove their laws from the order of the day and move on to Bill 2535a of the People's Deputy of the Royal Mrs. Natalia. This is a draft regulation on measures to strengthen social protection for internally displaced persons. I ask the session room to support the consideration of this bill, this short-circuit order. Please be supportive. [[12:48:52]] For-61 61 members of the People’s Parliament were in favour of a summary procedure. Perhaps the hall would like to discuss the protection of internally displaced persons by full procedure. In principle, that makes sense. Please, Mrs. Natalia, have a word with me. And we're moving on to the full procedure for discussing the appropriate decision. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, today we are looking at the 2535a draft regulation on measures to strengthen social protection for internally displaced persons. In four years, the government has failed to produce adequate social policies and strategies for these people. Although the Committee on Social Policy has repeatedly given recommendations to Parliamentary hearings, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has made recommendations. Repeatedly, we held committee hearings, field meetings of the committee, and called on the government to do everything we could to support those who at one time lost their whole home, their little homeland, to lose their future. And these people came back to us, came back to Ukraine to start over. Unfortunately, though, today the government has only managed to provide money, so think of the 442 bracelets, or 16 dollars. And the government thinks it's their big victory when they give people 16 dollars a month and not all of them. The government has initiated a program of verification, search for people, blocked part of the pension, and has constantly abused people who have come to get support and protection. Unfortunately, we have never seen a really useful program that protects people. And so we are proposing a regulation where, first of all, it is intended to give a specific mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to urgently develop and submit a bill to amend the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons concerning the settlement of payment of this category of citizens of cash assistance, both on a one-time and a periodic basis, which should at least partially compensate for the loss and mistrust of families of displaced persons, and provide and provide monthly adequate support in the first priority needs. Secondly, to set the appropriate size of monthly targeted assistance to displaced persons to cover housing costs, including housing and utilities, linking them to a subsistence minimum for relevant socio-demographic groups. Thirdly, the Cabinet of Ministers should address the issue of the restoration of pensions and other social benefits and assist the citizens of Ukraine who have left the temporarily occupied areas of Donetské and Lugansk. In recent years, Kabin has been openly sabotaging the issue and manifesting total legal nihilism by failing to implement the decisions of three Ukrainian courts: the District Court, the Appeals and the Supreme Administrative Court, which were approved in February, April and October 2015 on the renewal of these payments. The Western partners of Ukraine are constantly insisting on the solution. As early as March 17th, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees called on the Ukrainian Government to ensure full access for internally displaced persons to pensions and social benefits. In January 2018, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted the Resolution on the Humanitarian Consequences of the Military Conflict in Eastern Ukraine, which emphasized the need to stop discrimination against the people of Donetsk and Lugansk regions in part of their legal social rights in the payment of pensions and benefits. But the problem remains unresolved, forcing displaced persons to appeal to the courts today to defend their rights. And I point out to you that today there is a precedent for the adoption of a just judgement on the reinstatement of selected pensions in forced displaced persons. Yes, in the middle of February of this year, the Supreme Court ruled on a pensioner from Donbas who is now living in Mariupola. Dear colleagues, why are we now going to support the government in the abuse of people who are forced to go to trial, passing the seven cycles of hell in our judicial system in order to be completely objective today to stand up for themselves? That is why we also propose this regulation to ensure that the rules on the numbering and validation of the insurance system in the case of the initial assignment of pensions to internally displaced persons are adopted, taking into account the impossibility of obtaining appropriate supporting documents from the temporarily occupied territories. Fifthly, to establish a system of compensation for the loss of their property, which has been destroyed or damaged in the course of hostilities. Dear colleagues, for four years, we have not been running a housing rehabilitation program. And today, housing is ruined either by international organizations or by the support of local budgets. And that's a question that hasn't been settled in four years. Sixthly, we propose in the decision to make changes to the order and conditions of granting subsidies from the state budget to local budgets to take action to support the areas affected by the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine. Approved by Government Decree 769 concerning the completion of the list of objects targeted by the subsidy to housing and construction cooperatives and the private sector. Because now neither the private sector nor the cooperative housing can receive any support at the expense of the state budget. And unfortunately, according to the subsidy arrangement, no compensation is foreseen for the restoration of private homes and apartments. Thus, people, all these years, cannot receive financial and material assistance. Dear colleagues, now our decision will depend on you, will be supported by these people who believed in their homeland, who now believed in Ukraine. And they are forced to go to court and defend their constitutional rights. Either many people are forced to return to uncontrollable territories now, or people are forced to be completely discouraged and unaware of what to do now. So for the first time in four years, we're looking at this issue in a comprehensive way. Unfortunately, there are very few people in the room right now, and we realize that this number of people may not be supported. But I am very grateful for the opportunity to bring this problem to light today. We very much hope that we will still be able to mobilize and put aside our political, ideological, emotional differences and unite in order to reach out to the government and give a clear commission today to 1 million Ukrainians, to make an adequate target programme to support them. I ask you very much to support our resolve and to do everything we can to make people believe that the Ukrainian national MPs know this problem, care and are ready to solve it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u117	According to the Rules, we now have time to answer the author of the decree. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for a question, please. Please, Semenha, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u118	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, first of all, I want to correct the reporter, there is no armed conflict in eastern Ukraine, and there is the external aggression of the Russian Federation, which is already recognized by the law that we voted in this room. Two questions are appropriate for the authors. First. Don't you think that all costs associated with war should be borne primarily by the Russian Federation's occupying state? The other one. Yes, which is already in the law. And the second question. The drafters assure us that this legislative initiative does not require additional financial burdens on the Ukrainian budget. Then the next question arises, on behalf of whom or not of Ukrainian taxpayers do you propose to increase these payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u119	Thank you so much for asking. Dear colleagues, we must first determine: these are Ukrainian citizens, now they have the same rights as you and I. And it doesn't matter if you're a national MP or a regular teacher who's here and now, today, needs help. And we can appeal to the Russian Federation as to any other country in the world, but these are our citizens. And our job today is to do everything that we can to demonstrate how these people, as the whole world, that we don't throw our own in trouble, that we react first and defend them and support them, and not seek anything today, so that we don't do our job. So I'm primarily asking you today to do what we can today, what we can do to help these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u120	Next question from the national deputy Babak. Please ask the following question from Valeria Zarzko. Mrs. Valeria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u121	Good afternoon. Natalie, I have a question about the period of reimbursement of housing for displaced persons, because the question, in my opinion, needs to be resolved immediately. How do you reflect this in your proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u122	Thank you so much for asking. We are now considering the ruling, and in this decree, we are entrusting the government with the task of drafting bills, targeted programs and balancing our budget capabilities and the timeframes in which this issue needs to be addressed today. Of course, we had to do all of this the other day, because within four years of the government budget, people received no support. I would like to stress once again that the buildings are now cooperative and private at the expense of just or international organizations, charities and local budgets. And that's why we're giving the government this task right now, so that they can calculate the shortest terms, and now we're going to do a housing rehabilitation program for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u123	Last question, please, from John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan. No, there'll probably be time for one more thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u124	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, this bill, as we can see, actually provides an opportunity, on the one hand, it's about displaced persons and pension payments, there's a recalculation of pensions into a bank card and all that. But perhaps this bill was prepared before Russia was recognized as an aggressor country as already said by Deputy Semimenah. So I think I'd like to ask first. To answer, indeed, the aggressor country. That's the first one. And secondly, what do you say about agreeing to the rules of our state's current legislation, what exactly did you want to agree on?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u125	Thank you. For four years, we have made a number of decisions. Unfortunately, though, this decision concerns very little financial support. I have already stressed: 442 bracelets, or 16 dollars. We realize that this is not enough, and we are interested. And we all believe that both Lugansk and Donetsk will soon return to Ukraine, to peaceful housing, and we will establish our unity. And the first people to go back there are the settlers who are coming to us and who are now living in Ukraine. And that's why I think the more we can help these people right now, the more we can support them, the more we can then be able to establish our integrity. And now it's our responsibility to do everything we can to support and protect these people. We've lost a lot of time, but we have a chance today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u126	Thank you. I ask you to return to your workplace. And I now invite you to give the floor for the report to the representative. I'm sorry, I'd like to give you the floor to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions to Sergey Kaplin. Please, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u127	Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues, representatives of the media! I would like to speak separately to our fellow citizens who voted with their feet, with their heart, in their position for the unity of our nation, against the Ottoman Kremlin regime, who have come to the territory, the unoccupied territory of Ukraine, and who count on our attention, concern, attitude, and respect for their social problems and civil rights. At its meeting on November 23, 2015, the Committee considered the draft regulation and decided to support it and take it as a whole. The proposed decision was based on recommendations made by the committee following a work trip by Ukrainian National Deputies to the Committee in June, again, on the 15th anniversary of the city of Sloviansk in the Donetsk region. Some of the questions raised by the committee in the recommendations were partially addressed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. In particular, there has been an increase in the amount of monthly targeted assistance for internally displaced persons, but they are not now reaching the minimum of living, and given the lack of capacity in almost 2 million citizens, I would like to stress that, two million of our fellow countrymen with you get decent jobs, have housing, this survival is absolutely impossible. The other one. The procedure for checking and identifying internally displaced persons for appropriate State aid has been simplified. Subsidies are granted for internally displaced persons who rent housing. Third. It provides vouchers for internally displaced persons to support their competitiveness in the labour market. However, most of the issues remained unresolved – the issue of pension insurance for both internally displaced persons and those staying in temporary occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. In turn, the National Deputies of Ukraine, including the deputies of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the right to receive pensions by individual categories of citizens (registration No.6692) since 12.07.2017. This bill provides: firstly, the abolition of mandatory issuance of paper documents; secondly, the payment of accruals to these persons in the past time without any limitation; and thirdly, the introduction of a special pension order for those living in uncontrollable territory. However, the bill is still pending in the Supreme Council, and no mechanism has been developed by the Cabinet of Ministers to address this extremely pressing problem. Other issues and tasks raised in the draft regulations also remain relevant for the time being. However, we, the committee members, were convinced that, in October-month 2017, we had made another journey to the Donetsk Region, where we noted the following: confirmation of the work experience by the year 2000 for internally displaced persons who first acquire the right to a pension; cancellation of the obligation to report on the change in the actual place of residence, stay; compensation for damage to persons for immovable property, damaged or damaged in the course of an anti-terrorist operation; inventory of a particle or completely destroyed dwelling; and home security for internally displaced persons. The Committee has repeatedly acknowledged the work of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine in ensuring the realization of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons and has given a number of recommendations to the Cabinet to strengthen the social protection of this category of citizens. So approval of this decision will certainly draw the government’s attention to the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u128	Please add five more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u129	Internally displaced persons will be moved to speed up their resolution, as Ukrainian citizens too. They are Ukrainian citizens, and they also need state support. Please support the committee's proposal and accept the decision as a whole. Dear fellow citizens! Dear fellow citizens, this was my report as the executive responsibility of the head of the social committee. I have tried my best to express in a liberal way the position of all the members of our committee. And now I would like to say two words as a citizen of Ukraine, as a national deputy of Ukraine, who was elected by his constituents and who wanted our country to be the only one to be able, after all the tragic events that took place in our country, to be able to sew it up, to find an understanding to make it independent, sovereign and indivisible again. We are now discussing the issue of the fate of two million of our fellow countrymen. I want to emphasize for the third time, two million pensioners, people of work, young children, absolutely innocent defenseless children, who sometimes don't even understand what is happening in our country in occupied Donetsk, in our occupied Lugansk. And there are more than a hundred national deputies from over four hundred deputies who went to the elections to the Supreme Council, and each on his knees with foam in his mouth promised his electorate to sew up the country, to protect those who did his work, in his position, in his principle voted for its unity, and had great hope that the new government, the post-Majdan authorities, the new governments, the new president would be able to reunite the country. There's only a hundred people in this room and probably two or three faction leaders who came here to take care of the most important site in our country, who are our fellow countrymen, who have Ukrainian passports with Ukrainian hearts, and who in any future election, I'm sure they will vote in favour of Ukrainian power. There is no concern, discussion, or parental treatment in the Parliament Hall. Just think about the amount of help we're giving these citizens. 400 bucks! 400 bucks! Today, the Committee on Budgetary Questions is making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u130	Dear colleague, Sir Sergey! Dear colleagues, first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, dear fellows, I have heard the comments of the national deputies. Dear Mr. Sergio, we thank you for the report in the box. We thank you for your report within the framework of the current chairman of the Committee on Social Policy. And now, according to the Rules, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please. In the context of the discussion and presentation of the bills, I ask only to focus my attention on them. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Queen, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Sergio, honourable members of the Committee of Social Policy, I would like first of all to thank you for being able to put aside, to put aside the issues that separate us and to support this decision unanimously, because they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u132	I'm sorry. You have a problem with the sound in your microphone or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! Okay? Everybody hear that? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the members of the Committee of Social Policy for putting aside the issues that separate us, but we have united our efforts to resolve this issue, not politically, but on a level that is national and responsible. And I want to talk to all the colleagues in the room, because we might have a lot of questions. Who should be responsible? How? But.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u134	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u135	We have a government, we have an entire ministry responsible for this direction. And that's why we're asking and tasking our commission and then telling us how, in what way, we can settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u136	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u137	Natalia Yuriovna, thank you for asking. I'd like to say about which account can be settled in painlessly for the state budget. Do you know that today there is a norm in social legislation when a simple worker, a simple peasant, a small entrepreneur pays 22 percent of the only social contribution to our country's pension fund? So I want to tell you a secret that's not being discussed. All those who are assigned salaries, ranging from 40,000 to 4 million dollars, and such wages are, for example, in Naftogaz, pay a corresponding amount of 22 percent to only 40,000. Starting at 40, no one pays! If we set the level of rights, the level of liability for a single social contribution is 10 billion dollars! 10 billion dollars, some of which can go to the needs of the displaced. These people will return to their time as the situation on Donbassa stabilizes. And they're going to vote all their lives for a single country, because here they've seen the care, attention and respect of the official government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u138	The next question is from the People's Deputy of Semimenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u139	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. I have a question for a committee reporter, as far as I can tell. Today, there is a valid Ukrainian law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons, according to which direct expenses of internally displaced persons are compensated by the aggressor State. I don't know what the logic is. You're suggesting that instead of paying the aggressor state of Russia, you translate the taxes into Ukrainian taxpayers? Then in whose interests does this bill work?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u140	First. As experience has shown, for our settlers, you will not ask for the winter in Putin and the snow for our fellow citizens. And this is our responsibility to these people. These are our citizens. Dear Mr. Semenach, I would like to point out to you that as a faction, as a representative of the faction, a party that, as far as I've been watching you, cared for the unity of the country, wanted to "save" the country, you have to take a position of support for these people. And not to manipulate certain standards of current legislation. We're dealing with an incredible injustice. There's an oligarch named Kosyuk who's given 2 billion grants each year, 400 bucks per chicken! And 400 dollars for a simple, ordinary citizen, a citizen who has fled from war and is now in the unoccupied territory of our country. It's an absolute injustice. And once again, Natalia Yuriovna, I want to add: the sources for us to support our displaced people have provided them with conditions for living, for living and working, enough in the country. And the committee will stand firm in the position of protecting these 2 million people. And it will protect these 2 million people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u141	Next question from the National Deputy of the South. The same is true of Valeria Zarzko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u142	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. How do you propose to remove the humiliating procedure for identifying migrant pensioners while avoiding fraud? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u143	We are currently considering a draft regulation that provides a clear formal course for finding a solution. Today we place markers, we focus on the key issues that we need to resolve. And I'm officially inviting you to go to the Social Policy Committee, stressing social policy, pensions, and solving people's employment problems, unemployment of all the factions present. Because we have separate factions, all known to be talking about pensioners, about displaced persons, about creating new jobs, and there's no one on this committee. But there are representatives of the People's Front, there are representatives of the Peter Prashenko Block, the Opposition Block, and whenever it comes to social protection, they vote unanimously, forgetting their political, ideological platforms. Because these are people, and we have to protect them. I'd like to invite you personally to a committee meeting. And you can write an application for a transfer to my committee. We'll be happy to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u144	Please, the People's Deputy Lensky is asking a question right now. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Kupryenka Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u146	Please, now, National Deputy Kuprienko. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u147	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. A question to a representative, as he said, of the Social Committee, although there is no such thing as (and this is not the Kaplan Committee, and this is the Supreme Council Committee), a representative of the Presidential Team of the Peter Poroshenko Block, which, in the fourth year of the war from the rostrum, calls for the promotion, implementation, development, implementation. Question: A committee where for 4 years has been led by a pro-domestic MP, who is yelling at every corner about the protection of rights, and displaced persons, including: Question is, what did the committee do besides wait for the Royal Bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u148	Dear representatives of the Radical Party, I want to tell you that this draft decree and the entire work of the Committee for the Protection of Migrants directly concerns your faction. Because in this way, we are protecting the main immigrant in this country, the sponsor and the real leader of your party, Rinat Leonidovich Ahmtova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u149	Please, National Deputy Kurilo, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u150	Mr. Sergei, but still, perhaps in the course of the previous question of the previous MP, he's taken some initiative. I'd like to ask you a specific question. Is there any other bill, any government bill that would address this issue? And one more question, which is to the chairman and to you as to the committee. Why are we considering this decision, which involves temporary displacements, and there are no representatives of the government in the mine, nor in the pension fund, to which are the most important issues, nor in the ministries of occupied territories, that is, there is nothing in the government, how could it happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u151	I'll be very popular to answer questions about the absence of government. First. Well, government, I take it, it's about 2 million of our fellow citizens. They may not see the prospect of working to sew up our country. And in that direction, I take it, they didn't do anything, they didn't do anything, they didn't plan it. The Ministry of Social Policy is also very nominally concerned about this issue. And the third. I mean, for the committee, this is one of the most important questions, because of the six members of our committee, just think about how many of you are on the budget, there are 40, 50? And in social security, six people. So, of the six members, there are two displaced persons: the secretary of the committee and the ex-head of Mrs. Denisov's committee. We paid a lot of attention, too. And Mr. Kunicin, third. Half, 50 percent are people who are actually officially displaced. We've been giving and giving this problem extraordinary attention, and with a new, I take it, the temporary head of the committee, it's going to get even more meaningful, even more active, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u152	Thank you. We are running out of time to ask questions. I'm so aware that Fatherland hasn't been able to sign up for questions today, even though they've tried several times. But you will also be able to speak during the factions, please, and during the performances of the national MPs. As for your question, Mr. Kurilo, about government involvement. So I'm informing you that when the decision was being considered, I was to take part in the consideration of this issue, Alexander Privalov, Deputy Minister of Social Policy. I'll ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to refer a request to the Ministry of Social Policy, why there is no Mr. Privalov, which statement, to discuss this draft ruling or other representative of the Social Policy Department. And I think we can hear the answer to that question on Friday during the "hour of questions to the government." Now I'm asking you to sign up for the factions for this motion. Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov, gives him the word of the People's Deputy of Martovitchki. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we are now considering a very painful, very urgent issue. This is our social wound, which has been bleeding on the body of our society for the fourth year, when a very large population of Ukrainian citizens, despite the sarcasm of separate factions, self-help in particular, is something we don't really solve in a complex way. Regrettably, the State of Ukraine does not take the time to address the problems of social protection of internally displaced persons in a comprehensive way. As a result of independent events, they were actually forced to migrate to another territory of Ukraine, effectively without a job, without a home, even without loved ones, who could be broken up by family ties because certain people could remain in one territory uncontrollable, other people in the controlled territory. What is the state’s reaction? What is the State’s social protection? Unfortunately, in the first years of the corresponding armed conflict, the state initially demanded that the listed category of citizens be granted internal displacement status, and then in the 16th year, it introduced a verification procedure. And it's a humiliating procedure. Because, in fact, the State has made pensions dependent on permanent residence and residence in a controlled territory. That is, if the person who has received the status of internally displaced person, the help, but who does not live there all the time, does not undergo the verification procedure, and that also cuts off 500 000 Ukrainian citizens who do not receive pension insurance. Now you can appeal very many times, as certain factions do, about the social protection of internally displaced persons, about the qualification of the State as an aggressor, so to speak, to take responsibility for the social protection of the relevant categories of people. But they are Ukrainian citizens, from whom we have neither the moral nor the legal right to separate ourselves. Accordingly, the State of Ukraine, in whose budget these categories of citizens have been paid for a period of time, should receive an adequate level of social security, pension insurance independent of their place of residence. Just think, the reintegration of Donbas should not start with the liberation of the territory, the reintegration of Donbass has to start with the return of the face of the state to the social protection part of the population. They are people who need to be signaled, both by people who have the status of internally displaced persons and by people who are constantly living in uncontrollable territories.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u154	Please, from the faction of the Petra Dustenka People's Deputy Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Respectable citizens who refer to the category of temporarily displaced persons! Four years ago, external aggression began, leading to several million Ukrainian citizens becoming temporary displaced persons. Ukraine first encountered in its history as an independent state, the fact that we have refugees, temporary displaced persons. And in this situation, no one knew exactly what to do. And unfortunately, there were no proper instructions in Ukraine because we had this phenomenon for the first time. Over the years, government and state have done much for these people. Very much, I would say, because I can talk about it, because I refer to this category, too, people. At the same time, I would point out that we have a number of points that need urgent attention and that can be easily solved, nevertheless, by the State. Having red taped out pensions, taking away bureaucracy in order to account for aid, we need to address housing for these categories of people first, because lack of housing is the main reason that makes people go back to those areas. We need to address the issue of increasing social assistance or paying housing for people who do not care about housing or pay for housing. But without that, we can't solve all these social issues. And I would also like to pay attention to one very important thing, in my opinion. These are the people who stayed there, and especially the children who stayed in the occupied territory. Today, there is real, psychological violence, primarily political violence against these children. When they are encouraged to serve in the military, to teach early military training, to try to cultivate hatred for Ukraine, and to do so primarily by international organizations, for we do not have access to it. So I think we need to talk about this in the Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u156	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u157	in the United Nations, the OSCE, we need to conduct continuous monitoring with international organizations in that area on child and childhood protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u158	Thanks for the show. Please, the Fatherland faction invites the Odarchenko People's Deputy to present the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Herson district. Dear friends, a very serious question is being considered right now in the Supreme Council, and it's a shame that few people are there. This is probably because few people live in areas that are affected by the war zone or occupied areas. And when you're away from these territories, the problem of these people and the problems of those people who live in border areas, they don't get that close. It is very difficult for humans to experience problems at some distance. We are now obliged to consider this matter. I would like to see this decree voted. It was very fair for some deputies to say that the damage caused during the occupation, the conduct of hostilities, must be compensated by the Russian Federation. I'd like to ask you, is there anything going on to make this damage really go away? Dear colleagues, we voted a bill a few months ago that recognizes Russia as an aggressor, and according to this law, the government in the shortest time had to create a commission that calculated the consolidated losses that the Russian Federation had caused to Ukraine in order to bring them to trial. And then these damages, those that are going to be counted, could be the basis for the cost that Ukraine will bear. To this day, I wondered, no step has been taken by the government to form even a commission to calculate such damages and to file appropriate lawsuits. What sources of income, besides the Ukrainian budget, can we say if there are no steps taken? When there was World War II, the former Soviet Union had already calculated the losses suffered by the fascist Germany in 1943, and during the Nuremberg process it was urgent, and Germany had to repay them. I'd like to call on the well-established coalition to encourage the Cabinet of Ministers, which they have chosen to actually create mechanisms for these funds to arise in the Ukrainian budget. While there are no funds, nothing has been done, it is certainly necessary to resolve these issues, including at the expense of Ukraine’s budget, in order to support Ukrainian citizens who have found themselves in such a difficult situation. The Fatherland faction will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u160	Thank you. And the next performance is Valeria Zarzko. Please, from the Radical Party. The Radical Party faction. It represents the position of this faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u161	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased today that we have finally come to a discussion of such an important issue, the impeccable question of how the question of displaced persons is. Who are the movers? The displaced are almost 2 million Ukrainian citizens who have been forced to leave their homes, leaving all their property and all their previous lives in an uncontrollable Ukraine territory that is likely to be established today in their civil rights. I want to say that these people have had to leave their homes, that they have not left of their own free will. And we demand an immediate solution to the housing issue for them, the issue of material and material security. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, last week, passed a bill to provide housing for displaced persons, which will allow them to finally get housing in Ukraine or to be able to borrow from them, because people today do not have enough material security to rent housing, unfortunately. We demand that pensions be paid without abuse of pensioners, those who have worked their entire lives and given their health to Ukraine. Today, they do not have the capacity to receive pensions and to provide themselves with the necessities of food, hospital supplies, and so forth. The Radical Party faction insists that the settlers are Ukrainian citizens like everyone else, and we demand proper treatment of them. We demand that they be reinstated in their civil rights so that they can vote as in all other Ukrainian citizens. We will do everything possible and impossible to support these people. And I'm very pleased to say that the draft Ordinance on Measures to Enhance Social Protection for Internally Moved Persons, which is being considered in the walls of this House today, will support our faction unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u162	The last statement on the faction block is from the Self-Help faction. Will you be there? Then it's not the last one. Alona Babak. The Self-Help faction supports this decision. Do you take the floor? Please, Mrs. Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I think it is absolutely absurd in this room to find out what political power cares for or says that it cares for people who are displaced today. "The Self-Help Union isn't just saying that, "The Self-Help Union is working. And unfortunately, our strength is not enough to make the right decisions in this Parliament, which are aimed at providing real help to these people. "Unification Self-Help," thanks to our votes, the "Available Housing" program was changed when the movers were involved. And it was thanks to our votes, "The Self-Help Union," that there was enough in this Parliament to make a decision on the State's "Available Housing" program and the inclusion of displaced persons. Thanks to the Self-Help Union, we also went to the Cabinet of Ministers, demanded that the government amend the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees so that these people could have normal mechanisms for obtaining this residence. Because the way the decrees were written was a bunch of these documents, evidence that people were standing and boycotting under the Cabinet. "The Self-Help Union was with them. "The Self-Help Union has amended this year's state budget of 1.8 billion to provide real funding for an affordable housing programme for displaced persons. And that's why today to find out who more loves who is here -- it's nonsense, it's action to prove that we are really providing adequate full help to these people. And we will always be in the interest of Ukrainian citizens who need help. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's now up to the committee to submit a draft Act amending the 18th State Budget to 1.8 billion funding for youth and affordable housing, and then we'll see who cares and who cares with the tongue in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I have not been able to sign up for the will of the people. I give the floor to Sergey Shahov to speak in the context of the discussion and then there will be speeches and discussions by the Ukrainian national deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! The People's Will Group will support the 2535a draft. Today, the situation is difficult for all displaced persons. I'm a mover myself. A million 700,000 people are dumped on the sidelines, now with their hands stretched out without a job, children can't learn properly, there's no normal housing. In fact, 9,000 200 people sit every day on the POWC in the Stančno-Lugansk region. People are in a beggarly state. We therefore demand that a government road map be developed immediately with the help of the displaced. Thank you. "The will of the people" supports this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to sign up now for a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Lensky, national deputy. He's giving the word to the Cooperian People's Deputy. Please, Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u167	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, if you look at the voting for the bills that are passed in this room, there are 226, 230, 240. So every faction and every group can say, "That's accepted by us." And when we start to measure who's better at protecting the settlers here, and let's take a closer look in the mirror, let's look at those people who have had to leave their homes, moved to peaceful territory, and no one needs them. No one cares for them, no one will ask how you live, whether there is something to live for, whether there is a piece of bread on the table. And here we come out of the rostrum and we tell them how we protect them. When we have to vote for the budget, we don't vote, we say there's someone out there who wants to steal something. Maybe he does, so let's put everyone on the floor and say, "You don't eat or live, because there's someone out there who wants to steal." So we're sitting here by law enforcement, we've got laws to write, we've got laws to accept, so everyone can have enough. And it doesn't matter where we come from -- from Crimea or from Donbas -- they're all our people, and they don't care about what flag we have over our heads. They need normal surroundings, normal living conditions. So let's stop waving political flags and worry about the problems of the displaced, not the displaced, but the people who are in trouble. And we are obliged to help them, and we will do so, not in words, but in action. And if we count who is more to blame or not to blame, let us do so on other matters rather than on human fates that are broken, that are broken and that require, ask, and beg for our share in their fate. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u168	Thank you for the talk. Please give the next word to Mr. Kuril. National MP Kurilo will be speaking from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Kurilo, 113 constituency, Lugansk, Petra Dustenka Block. I would like to draw attention to two more questions that concern temporary displaced persons. A very important political issue is the right to vote. And in this matter, the temporary movement of persons has been limited to the right of vote because people do not have the right to vote in local council elections, in presidential elections, in the Supreme Council of Majority Districts. And there's been a bill registered in the Supreme Council for over a year. He's nice or he's bad, but we didn't even try to put him in the dayroom once or try to look at him. I think that the four years that have passed since people have been used quite often in local communities and have no voting rights are not appropriate for the European state. We have to solve this question, and we have to make an urgent decision. And this is the responsibility of Parliament, not the government, not the local authorities, and this is our parliamentary responsibility. So first, let's get together. And there's another question I'd like to draw the attention of the government. The Luhansk region -- it's the farthest from Kiev has always been and perhaps the most neglected in this respect. But the war has worsened all the problems in the Luhansk region. I mean, first of all, the question of logistics. Somebody try to get to Luhansk today. The transport is going to be 18-20 hours after that no-road, which starts after Harkowe County in particular. If you're taking a train, you'll have a time somewhere, and you'll have to get on the 23rd hour train from Kiev, and you'll arrive early in the morning or vice versa. Besides, we've got the Crucifixion derailed Kyiv-Lisichanski's direct train, and today we can only take a ride without a ticket, and in a month there are no tickets. That's why I'm paying attention to the government and the question, and the attention of the Railroads and the Ministry. We must not forget these people who have already suffered from war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u170	Thank you for the talk. Please, the next word is Melnicka, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u171	Vladimir Melnichenko, 193 constituency. That's a really big problem. And I'd say it's not even a problem, it's a huge disaster. It's a problem of the state, it's the trouble of these people who have to leave their homes where they grew up, their parents' homes. Those who are unable to go to the graves of their parents who are forced to move to other cities. And our task, our authority, is to make these people feel human. So that they can work so that they can raise their children so that they can feel full - grown in our country, their home land. Unfortunately, there are very few deputies in the hall today. And I want to believe that God will give us, that we will have such voices that we may receive them to vote. And just so that these people are not really speaking, or from the rostrum to the MPs, the representatives of the various parties are telling a lot of nice words. But it is said that from word to deed is the Sahara Desert. And they want to feel, not in words, but in a material, moral sense, supported by the authorities, supported by the national MPs. We're also doing a lot of good things for these people, we're going to do things for our Ukrainians together. And it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u172	Thanks for the show. Next, please, Mustafa Najem. I'd like to have a word with you. Says a colleague of Derevyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I would now like to address not only the part of the hall that initiated this decision, but also all of our colleagues from the BP, the People's Front and Coalition. The thing is, we really have a big problem right now with the pension provision of all the people who are both in our territory and in the occupied territory. We cannot prohibit these people from receiving a pension, it is their property under all international rights. The second question. As far as the movers are concerned. We have not yet settled the issue of voting. We have a bill on the right to vote and vote, the right to vote for all displaced persons, including those who have been resettled in our cities. It's because we've banned pensions that we've now completely converted and misrepresented the statistics of the displaced. Because some of the movers, you know, that's true, move, for example, to Kramatorsky or Mariupol, they sign up as settlers, they get a pension, and they go back. They are now, according to Minstadt, displaced. If we give the right to vote, including those people who will somehow influence the local elections, the local mayor's election in those cities that are now near the intersection line. Question three. If we're talking about immigrants, we're talking about their rights. I'm sorry, we still have a government that hasn't changed the ruling that defines the list of cross-border goods. Regrettably, this list identifies a list of items that cannot be transported. For example, it lists items that prevent people from moving with coffee or coffee because it is forbidden. In all countries, the cross section has rules that are prohibited from transporting, not what can be transported. We've asked so many times for this to change. Question three. As far as CERs are concerned. Those people who have been to the checkpoints at least once know what the question is. People stand in line for six hours, they have no right to get out of the queue, please. They stand without toilets, without tents, without cover, and it happens in winter, in families, in cars. But it's easier to move if you pay the money. This is the corruption of the CER, which is happening today. The main problem is that now these checkpoints are unknown on whose balance. Local authorities don't take over. The government didn't decide that question. And we have in three years these KEVCs are completely destroyed, there's no way to intersect. This too applies to displaced persons. And the last. I would like to address the representatives of the Party of Regions and the people who are now initiating this story. Please tell me why you have enough resources, administrative resources to set up your questions in metallurgy, in energy, in tariffs, here in the room to decide with the polls, but you don't have enough resources for the movers to press on the government, and you come up with these orders. Where is your administrative resource in the government, when you ask about the tariffs for Rinat Ahmtov or for the frauds for Firthash, and when the movers, you raise the noise here. Please use this resource there, not just when you need it for your pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u174	It's Capplin and Sugonaco. Excuse me, six minutes? Five minutes is given to the national deputy Kaplan, who is also given the word of his colleague Sugonjako. This is the last speech in the House of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u175	I would now like to turn to not my fellow national MPs, but I would like to address the immigrants, the citizens who are in this very serious predicament. I think by the number of factions' leaders, the people's deputies in the hall, the empty bed of the government, you have absolutely understood that there will never be any movement in the matter of the order of your rights, the protection of your rights, the social protection, the help to decide on this composition of parliament. You hear a lot of different "talking heads" from television screens, which unfortunately today, when your fate is resolved, when key markers are formed, you don't see the emphasis in the new Ukrainian parliamentary policy of protecting your interests. Where is the newly discovered grandfather of the Ukrainian politics, Vadim Rabinovich, who protects you from the rostrum NewsOne every day? Where is he, on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why isn't he protecting his interests right now, tearing up his shirt here? Where is he, tell me? We're turning from the committee, I'm from two of our parties or three, five, all the left-hand movement of the country to the head of the Cloud faction: draw him here on the carts, pull him by the heels, let him defend for at least a minute here, in the workplace, the interests of the settlers, whose voices he's counting on. The other one. It is clear that Ukraine needs a new parliament, a parliament, particularly chosen by those who flee war for peace, for the unity of our nation, our settlers. Dear fellow countrymen, in the next election you will have to choose the new political forces that will protect you. The Lord God himself knows who will be resettled tomorrow. I don't rule out that a third of Parliament will be displaced if we continue to run this way, so we'll ignore social policy, so we'll ignore the creation of new jobs, so we'll ignore the issue of increasing pensions and protecting our national interests, our national economy. One God knows that tomorrow, if we do not unite, we will not first sew a whole generation of our state, our country, then territory, until we unite together to protect our sovereignty, our territorial integrity, until we sew parliament here in those days, at times when we need to be alone. I am addressing you, Madam Head, Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, so that today we do not play these cheap manipulations with the so-called vote for this draft decree, so that we do not make the mistakes that the Ukrainian Parliament has made in due course, when we ignore those people who live there, and we postpone the consideration of this issue, the vote from this issue to the next day when we can demonstrate to two million of our fellow countrymen and to the world that the fate of these people, for peace, for Ukraine, for unity, for the European future of this country, does not matter to the present parliamentarians. So let's at least take a step to get these citizens to trust each other so that they don't spit on the TV screens when they watch this Sabbath, which is being held here with no vote for this draft decree. I, for my part, am acting as the head of the committee of profile, and I think by dividing the position of all the members of the committee, I promise to open the entire front, I emphasize the entire front of the struggle for the social rights of these fellow citizens and to protect these social rights. I promise to unite the migrant associations, move the settlers in one powerful force, and protect these rights. If the government can't do it, if the government doesn't care, if it wants to go to the Ukrainian Parliament. And I'm going back to the Opposition Block. Find those who seem to protect the interests of the settlers and all the people of the south, the east, and drag here to the workplace to express their position and here in the matter of the green button, not the chatty, nasty chat on our nation's purchased television broadcasts, as if they were protecting these people. That's our requirement. And that's going to be absolutely fair and absolutely right. The end of populism, the beginning of a new job, constructive work to protect these citizens. I lived eight years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, as I have always visited Parliament on Wednesday, I can say that today, even more than ever, there are MPs, though very few, and that is wrong. The name of a national MP who was absent from parliament was mentioned. That's why we can't give him the word. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I raised your hand to the leader of your faction, Mr. Boyko. So please, I give my word to the heads of the opposition block faction. Please refer to the faction in a negative context. And I'm continuing my session for five minutes. More like a five-minute plenary meeting. Please, Mr. Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u177	Thank you, Madam Speaker, honourable parliamentarians, I am confident that whoever has once communicated with the displaced will support the bills that help them. Because all the speakers said the whole thing right. Those one and a half million people need the help of our nation. But I see that there are very few deputies in Parliament today, and that virtually everyone, I'm sure, is upholding the law, there is a danger that will not pass. So, Mrs Irina, I want the law to be laid down, I want Parliament, I ask Parliament to support this law with all the voices that it is. It'll be a good signal for people. But if there are not even enough votes to adopt the law, I suggest that all the factions who took part in the discussion prepare the same law and bring it up for consideration next week in order for it to have a guaranteed passage through the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we must now give the floor to the final author of Mrs. Queen's ruling. And then we go to the vote. Please, two minutes. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, we are very grateful that we have been through this discussion today. And because we still have a chance today to show the world that Ukraine cares about its citizens. And I ask that we now mobilize all our efforts. And despite our political views, they have supported those who have been waiting for this time, to consider such a complex issue, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all four years. And so that people can see that our national MPs, first of all, are responsible people. Thank you. And please support our joint draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, we are now moving to the vote on the draft Ordinance on Measures to Enhance Social Protection for Internally Moved Persons. I ask everyone to return to the session room. At the same time, in the course of the discussion, there were completely fair comments from the self-help factions who noted that legislation already adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be taken into account in the text of the decree. In particular, the fact that there's not a conflict going on in eastern Ukraine, but there's a war going on there, and because we've recognized the Russian Federation as an aggressor country. I'm asking you then, you're making it up. Dear Mr. Semenach, you're formulating this rule that you want to make as a change to the draft decree. Yes. All of it. I get it. I mean, I mean. Yes, Your Honor, that's exactly what I'm calling your attention to. That in the course of the discussion of the bill, the Self-Help faction drew the attention of the session hall to the fact that it was not settled there, in the text of the decree, a new Ukrainian legislation that recognized the Russian Federation as an aggressor country and which did not exactly recognize, in the draft of this decree. We can't vote the draft ruling on the basis. So I suggest I put it to a vote now that we put it to a vote. Now, for a moment, we're just consulting on how to do this right in the context of those new realities and adopted legislation with the Supreme Council Secretariat, right now. I'm putting a draft regulation on measures to strengthen the social protection of internally displaced persons on the basis only, taking into account the observations made during the discussion of this bill and the fact that its text in many novels does not correspond to the adopted law on the reintegration of Donbas. So please, Your Honor, vote, determine when voting for Bill 2535a. Please, I'm calling a vote. [[14:03:22]] For 118 118 votes in favour. No, we don't have the potential. By factions, please demonstrate. It's a non-adopted decision. But I think that today's discussion has once again shown the session room how relevant the problem is, the issues of internally displaced persons, and we still have to go out with you, as this has been repeatedly emphasized on the conciliation boards, the day that we're going to look at all of these bills that have accumulated in the Supreme Council that concern the problems of internally displaced persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today, at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the theme "National Innovation System: State and legislative development." I ask you to join my colleagues in parliamentary hearings. I also remind you that today is our Wednesday, and this is the day of the parliamentary committees, the parliamentary committees. I very much ask all colleagues to visit the committees so that there is a quorum. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare closed, and tomorrow we will resume work with you at 10 a.m. We're planning a full day, so I'm asking all the deputies to be on the job. Good-bye. Thank you all for the important session day and discussion today.
