ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please prepare to register. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:40]] 333 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I'd like to announce that I have a statement from two factions for a break that they're willing to replace for the performance, from the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. And they're ready to switch the break for the performance. Three minutes for the show. Igor Shurmi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u2	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. In January of last year, Decree No. 5642 on Unsatisfying the Temporary Duty of Mrs. Ulyana Suprun’s Minister of Health was issued. During this period of time until the decision is made here, we have witnessed hundreds of cases of botulism, dozens of deaths, 8,000 cases of measles with fatalities, hundreds of cases of hepatitis. To date, we have agreed on their transfer of 10 billion dollars abroad for the purchase of medicines. And today, there is no medicine and no money. Of the drugs that have gone down, 135 million dollars are termed drugs that have to be destroyed and spent on our budget. During this year, no emergency medical facility, a center, has been launched according to the legislative requirements. And finally, we have today, huh? We have yet another interesting statement from the Economic Court’s decision, which was addressed to the Ministry of Health. The decision states that the application was signed. Minister Suprun. Among the documents added to the application, there is no evidence to support the performance of Minister Suprun’s duties. In the information on the Ministry of Health, it is in the judgment of the court, which is contained in the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms, that there is no indication that the Suprun is acting as minister. Under such circumstances, the court has not proved that the application of the Ministry of Health has been signed by a person who has the right to sign it on behalf of the plaintiff. If she has no right to sign any statements, how could any of the deputies be appointed? This means that all the orders that are signed are illegal. And now the statement of the opposition block faction. Andrew Volodymyrovich, report to Parliament Order 5642. This is the first one. The other one. Andrew Volodymyrovich, report to Parliament Order No. 5642. And the third. Andrew Volodymyrovich, report to Parliament Order No. 5642. Repeated three times for someone to hear. And Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, I want to thank you for keeping a man without citizenship because there is no order without education. This will all come to an end in the election of those political forces that support you. And then you'll get such a grandmother that none of you are going to get out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u3	Thank you. But why do you address the Head of Parliament three times and the Prime Minister only one? So, colleagues, today we have an hour of questions to the government, and in a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, headed by Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Borisovic Groissman. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. We welcome our officials. [[Applause]] And I would like to remind you that today, from the government, Igor Alexanderovich Zhdanov, Minister of Youth and Sports. Then 24 minutes -- on the faction and 20 minutes -- for the national MPs. And we're starting an hour of questions to the government. And I would like to invite Igor Zhdanov to the address, please, in 15 minutes. In 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian community! Recently, the National Assembly of Ukraine returned to the Motherland after a glamorous performance at the Paralympic Games 2018. We met our unbreakable sports heroes at Borispol Airport along with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, family and cowards. This was an extremely positive and emotional event, for the Paralympics brought home 22 high prizes: 7 gold, 7 silver, and 8 bronze medals. Ukraine's Paralympic Assembly took third place in the number of awards won among 49 participating countries. The Hymn of Ukraine spoke seven times in Pyongyang, and on 22 occasions our flag was raised. Millions of television viewers around the world have seen and heard this. This is the kind of powerful victory in the international arena that unites the nation and makes people feel proud of their state. The achievements of the Biatlonist with the vision of Oksana Shishkovy and her guide, Vitalia Kozakow, were impressive. This tandem won 6 medals: 2 gold, 3 silver, and 1 bronze. During the ceremony, Oksana explained that she had dedicated her first prize to ATO soldiers. I quote, "They protect us, they let us sleep at the cost of their lives. Our entire team devotes its rewards and achievements to the people of Ukraine. We've shown that we can be the best." So let's all give a big round of applause to the Ukrainian paralympics and their coaches, and to the racers with a successful performance at the Paralympic 2018. We write and thank you very much for this victory. [[Applause]] Convincedly, our Paralympic family appreciated the fact that all athletes who had become winners and champions of the games were quickly paid for by the State. They received a hard - earned appeal to their cards on the day of their arrival in Ukraine. I'm going to say that our Paralympics first won the same prize as the Olympics. This was made possible by the initiative of the National Committee on Disabled Persons Sport, led by Valery Suškević, the Minmolody of Sport. In 2016 a government decision was adopted. The prizes increased gradually until they were leveled in 2018. So our paralympics got a decent reward from the state and all the citizens as taxpayers: first of all, $15,000, secondly, $80,000, thirdly, $55,000. Costs were paid in bracelets at the NBA rate, totalling about 91 million dollars. There is now a procedure for the collection of prizes, and documentation is being prepared. That is, all government’s financial obligations to the Paralympics will be fulfilled in full. Don't worry about it. All the necessary funds for such payments are provided in the Minmolebysport budget. It should be noted that in Korean games, our Paralympic team won two more gold medals compared to the 2014 Winter Paralympic Games. In total, 20 disabled Ukrainian athletes and 10 national Paralympics of Ukraine’s National Assembly participated in three types of sports: biathlon, ski racing, mountain sports, and snowboarding. In the Winter Paralympic Games, Ukraine's team was represented by eleven debut athletes. This represents more than a third of its participants. The youngest was Taras Rad (18 years old) and the oldest was Vitaly Lukyanka, 39 years old. In fact, both Paralympics won gold prizes. Taras also set a unique record: he is Ukraine’s youngest winter paralympic champion. The number of Ukrainian athletes with disabilities at the Winter Paralympic Games increased almost threefold compared to 1998. If it was 11 people in 1998 in the Paralympics, it was 30 athletes in 2018. This indicates a positive dynamic in the development of the Paralympic movement in Ukraine. I will also observe the national character of the congregation, since it includes athletes, representatives of 11 regions of Ukraine: Vinnitska, Volinska, Zakarpatska, Kyivska, Mikolayivska, Sumska, Harkovska, Ternopilska, Chernigiv region, and the city of Kiev. Ukrainian athletes demonstrated the best results in the race against the bitlon and ski races. In particular, in the Ukraine, the first world position was taken by the total number of prizes and the second position by the number of gold rewards won. In the ski race, Ukrainian paralympics took third place after winning gold medals. I would like to point out that the result that our Paralympics demonstrated in Pyongyang is not random, it was command. The National Paralympic Committee, led by Valeri Suškević, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Government, Ministry of Social Policy, Supreme Council of Ukraine, District Administrations, Centres of Investments. It is a collective work of federations, hundreds of experts and enthusiasts who, in four years in a row, have provided central training for athletes to participate in the Winter Paralympic Games. The main training of the national paralympic team from the ski and biathlon races was conducted at the West Rehabilitation Centre in the village of Yavorov Lviv district and other sports facilities that have unhindered access to disabled persons. Today, the Western rehabilitation center is unique. This is a modern sports base that Ukraine can be proud of. There is a totally unhindered environment for people with disabilities and all the necessary conditions to ensure quality training for paralympic athletes. This base is being built with the direct financial support of the Ministry of Social Policy, Government and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The world level of the base is evidenced by the fact that, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, in 2017, there was a stage in the Paralympic Cup of the World of Ski Races and Biotlon, and the competition was held under the patronage of the International Paralympic Committee. The main source of funding for the preparation of the National Paralympic Congregation for the Paralympics was the cost of Ukraine’s State Budget. During 2015-2018, the Ministry of Youth and Sports supported the participation of athletes in international competitions, the holding of training meetings in Ukraine and abroad. Thus, with the aim of winning licences to participate in the Paralympic Games, our Paralympics took part in two world championships and nine stages of the World Cup. In these rating contests, Ukrainians chose 370 medals of different kinds, including 125 gold ones. In 2017, the budget programme for the preparation and participation of national team members in the Paralympic Games provided expenditure of 20 million dollars. Of these, 12 million were trained by the National Paralympic Team, and more than 8 million were paid for the acquisition of an individual sport inventory: forms, sports clothes, shoes and accessories for general and special purposes. The 2018 budget provided expenditure of 10 million dollars, more than 10 million dollars. Of these, nearly 5 million dollars — to conduct training assemblies, almost 4 million — for expenses related to ensuring the stay of athletes, coaches and the headquarters of the Paralympic collective team, 1.5 million — for information on the preparation and conduct of the Paralympics. In all, more than 30 million dollars were allocated in 2017-2018 to provide preparations for the Paralympic Games. I would also like to report that according to the summary of the participation of athletes in the Paralympic Games, the Ministry has prepared an appropriate submission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the appointment of a President of Ukraine scholarship for distinguished athletes from the Paralympic and Deflimpic types of sport. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I want to look to the leadership of the cities and areas represented by the winners and winners of the Paralympic Games. I urge you to do your best to evaluate their performances at the local level. Where necessary, the socio-economic conditions of sportsmen and their coaches should be improved. Please also ensure that the corresponding prizes are paid to the Paralympics and that scholarships are awarded to the city and district councils. Sportsmen should be supported not only by the fact that they are competing but also by the next four years. The preparations for the next Paralympics are known to begin on the second day after the completion of the previous Paralympic Games. Our dear Paralympics, once again on behalf of the Government of Ukraine and the entire Ukrainian people, would like to welcome you with a successful performance at the 2018 Paralympic Games. I want to rest well, and rehabilitation and rehabilitation have been successful after such grueling competitions. I wish you further victories. With all our heart we are hurting for you and wish you further success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Igor. We welcomed our congregation of Paralympics and were happy for our success. Please prepare the factions and groups to be recorded by factions and groups, then it will be from the deputies. So 20 minutes from factions and groups, 20 minutes from MPs. I'm asking you to prepare, and I'm asking you to record the questions from factions and groups. Please record. From "The Fatherland" Odarchenko Yuri Vitajovich gives the word to Sergey Evtushk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Minister of Education of Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich. I mean, it's regulation No. 6 of January 15. January 14, 2015, which effectively prohibits the use of educational subsidies for other educational needs. I mean, energy-saving programs. We see what is happening in schools, the more winter, ice cream and the wages of technical workers, according to which the government, as suggested, was more loyal to the government, divided into two classes. Please tell me, are you making such a suggestion to make changes to this decree and still not to divide people? And the second question. Please tell me, is the new Ukrainian school going to work on September 1, or next school year, and is there a proper number of textbooks and a suitable number for the first class of children who are going to school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u7	Thank you sincerely for these two questions. So the new Ukrainian school will be open on September 1. All the first classes go to a new standard of primary education. By now, 22,000 teachers had begun retraining. In addition to the distance course, they have 3 sessions of the eye course. We are preparing new textbooks for this new standard for the first class and the textbooks for the 1st class will be by September 1. The other one. In terms of places, we have problems with places in schools. And here I want to draw the attention of local self - government authorities, especially large cities, giving housing to areas that do not balance the situation with social infrastructure, and in places of intensive housing, apartments are first given up and earn money, and only then, under good circumstances, do we have facilities: kindergartens and schools. So here, of course, we either need to strengthen some legislative requirements for local self-government, or in places to stimulate, because we now have schools full of overcrowded classes. And this is a particular problem of places of intense oblivion. On the subject of the subsidy. As you know, in the process of decentralization reform, we have a large portion of the revenue that was previously directed to the budget, they're going to places. As a result, the government budget assumes part of the commitment and part of the commitment is made by local authorities. And when we took the budget with you, it was distributed. Today, the main problem is for local authorities to remember that paying people first is a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u8	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u9	Wage. And that's the main thing. And only then all the other possible expenses. The general secondary education grant covers the salaries of teachers in terms of the overall curriculum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u10	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u11	I have a question for the Minister of Sports. Dear Igor Alexanderovich, I have always, like all Ukrainians, wondered a very simple question: Why do the Olympics in the Olympics, from the world championship in the World Championships, our Paralympics show the incredible results the whole state is proud of, and the classic sport has always been in the past few years, if you will excuse me for being French in the team? For example, I can illustrate this. Look. Within the 198th constituency of last year, I contributed to the construction of four artificial-covered football fields, the construction of the largest gymnasium in the Cherkas region of the 7th school of Smila, the large Atlanta complex in Kamanca, 30 sports courses in the villages of Smilyansk, Kamyansk, Cherkas region, and 18 per cent in each of the district centres of the Cherkas region. I have a question, when are you going to develop a departmental program for the construction of sports buildings all over the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. The real question of restoring the country’s sports infrastructure is critical. The 25 years that have passed, most of the years since independence, since the beginning of our nation's independence, have virtually no one systematically invested in its restoration. After the process of decentralization began, the State Fund for Regional Development was established, which, thanks to the efforts of the National Deputies and the submission of the Ministry, is 10 percent of the country’s sports infrastructure. And you also know that our ministry is offering, we're developing infrastructure projects like this, building a biathlon track, rebuilding the sports palaces. So let's do this together, sports infrastructure because, for example, these projects that you've been talking about, including artificial football courses, are a state programme that exists in the state. We're going to, we're going to propose, and we're going to put in a government program, a state programme to rebuild the country's sports infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u13	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" Group, please, Mr. Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, honourable lords of heads! Vladimir Borisovich, Luhanščina, thank you for giving Kabmin 500 million dollars for DFRD, for development, for roads, for sports, and so on. But as an MP from 114 Luhansk County, I am asking you to make an exit meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and just take the roads that haven't been built in four years. There's a war coming, and the heavy machinery has gone through these roads. And believe me, a four-meter hole is hidden in these pits from Swatov to Bilukurakina. If you go to Melov, where there are friends of the nations, there is no fence with Russia, it is said, and people come to me from all sides. And believe that nothing is done in the Luhansk region today during this bloody hybrid war. Please make sure the Minister of Reconstruction of Donbas doesn't go to an enterprise that works and works in the Soviet Union today, but he goes to the Nitrogen that doesn't work. And the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u16	The second question. A week later, Kabmina was moved to a meeting on the minubrators. Believe me, the country lost $550 million that year. It's practically what we're asking the IMF with an extended hand today. Please pay attention to this, and yet on Wednesday, make a decision on the embargo on the minabrijav, which today comes from the aggressor state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. You were right about us spending 500 million dollars on Lugansk for recovery. And this is where we need to coordinate with the military-civil administration, which determines the direction of use of these resources. In fact, we realize that there are many problems, including the attack by the Russian Federation on Donbas, Ukraine, that require more investment. But full funding can be when we start reintegrating, restoring Donbas in general. So I want to emphasize that both Luhanskina and Donecina are at the forefront of restoring the infrastructure that we can do within our financial capabilities. As far as mineral fertilizers are concerned. I said at a government meeting, and today I would like to emphasize. I think we need to solve two problems at the same time and find a balance. First. This is to restore the work of all chemical companies producing fertilizer in the country. And second position. To provide our agrarians with the necessary mineral fertilizers for the sowing campaign. And the main thing is not to provoke now in the season of the seeding campaign the baseless increase in prices for agrarian production. This is a very important, sensitive question. So this doesn't need a government decision, it needs a special commission to deal with the anti-dumping position on mineral fertilizers and make a decision. She's supposed to be sitting on April 13th, and now her meeting's coming up on March 26th. This committee will consider the issue, I invite you to participate, and it will make a balanced decision. I'd like to save two positions: first, we're going to load our chemical enterprises in the country completely and second, we're not going to create artificial deficits or raise prices for agrarians for mineral fertilizers. Please balance. I'm both hands behind you. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u18	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko has the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u19	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, we have a question from the faction to the minister of finance who is responsible for the nationalized banks. It's been a year and three months since the "Private Bank" was nationalized. In order to cover the losses caused by former private owners from the state budget, from taxpayers' costs, from the Ukrainians who voted for us, you have paid 148 billion dollars. 148 billion dollars you actually put in an oligarch's pocket. I have a simple question. What does the government, the government, do to pay the Ukrainians back the $6 billion that the former private owners of the Cologne and the God-loving stole? We don't hear any reports of an investigation in Ukrainian courts. We don't see the activities of the NABU. You're telling us there's no money to raise wages and pensions. If you pay back the $6 billion that were stolen from Private, there's at least 15,000 dollars a month to set the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u20	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u21	We ask you to take all measures to recover the funds stolen from the Ukrainians to work for the Ukrainians, not for thieves who are hiding abroad today, but for God's sake, to bribe journalists, bribe law enforcement officers to avoid liability and to continue to be held accountable for the looting of the Ukrainians. Report to the people when you return the funds they have stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u22	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the nationalization of Privatbank was a very complicated decision that cost taxpayers a pretty large amount, which you called 148 billion. Let's just point out that as this decision was made by the government. So when a decision was made by the National Bank on the liquidation of Private Bank, the government carefully considered whether we could nationalize it or have it eliminated. And it was the government's decision to nationalize Private Bank. Otherwise, it would lead to a rather complex and difficult consequence for the financial system because we have only private bank customers with more than 22 million people, almost half of the population of Ukraine. So it was a complicated decision, and we had to go to nationalization and recapitalization of Private Bank to keep it in the market and work, and it was the basis of our banking system, and it ensured stability. But then, of course, we've taken active action to recover the funds that were recovered from Private Bank. There are now several cases in Ukraine as well as outside Ukraine. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we have filed with the previous owners of Private Bank in court. If you'll just give me a minute. In court. An important question, yes. Let's get 'em. to be simply responsible for leading the bank to bankruptcy. Unfortunately, once again, unfortunately, this case is not moving as actively as we wanted, and I have repeatedly stressed it. This should move much more actively. Instead, we see that things that are open against the State of Ukraine and the State authorities are moving much faster. There's another case that's open to Private Bank in UK jurisdiction about previous owners. The total is 2.5 billion dollars. And now all the assets of previous owners are frozen all over the world. There's a court-martial discussion going on. The government doesn't take part in this because it's not an apolitical issue, it's Private Bank against previous owners. But we hope that we will see substantial progress in the near future, and that will also allow us to move on to other things that are already registered in Ukraine and are moving forward. But I would very much like the Attorney General's Office to complete the case of bankrupting the bank and bring the case to trial. Because we can't expect anything from Britain's jurisdiction when we're barely moving here in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u23	Thank you. From the "Rebirth Party" group, the People's Deputy Kisse. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished Vladimir Borisovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! I have a question for the Minister of Environment of Ukraine. Is there a Mikhailovich? Questions. Please, yes, yes? I'm asking you to speed up signing the program's plan of action, attention, 2407090. This is the case with the repair of locks that will enable the water supply of the city of Bolgrad. Please pay attention to this question. The budget was adopted that year. It's been three months and the program hasn't been signed yet. You'll need a tender to figure out who's going to do the job. It takes a long time to do the work. Please sign this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u26	Basil Polojko, deputy minister of ecology and natural resources. Thank you for asking. The program will be signed soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u27	Thank you. From Self-Help, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have my first question to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, you're a supporter of the mask show stop, you're a proponent of investment to the state. But I want to let you know that in the last month, raids, searches of IT companies and not just IT companies continue. Four companies, one company has 80 computers removed without the need, another company has 80 laptops, 20 mobile phones without the need. I'm talking to you, Unit K, the Attorney General's Office, it needs to be stopped. I have a second question for the minister of sport. We are proud of our Paralympic congregation. What about the rest of us, where we finance sports? The results are deplorable. Funding? I can find you. We need to create a transparent system for lottery business and finance sports. Sadly, you do not do anything about it. Please answer these questions essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u29	Thank you. All I did was get the sport to get extra lottery funding, and that went to a special fund and to support our congregation. Unfortunately, it's not up to me, it's up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision and the law in which this will be ensured, I will only welcome it and do everything I can, which is up to me as a minister, so that such a decision will be adopted. So let us work together and help to ensure that sport is not financed solely by the state budget. Because there will always be limited resources in the budget, the country is fighting and looking for extra-budgetary funds. Recently, the committee considered the Law on Mecenation, which was prepared, including by the participation and initiative of experts in Minmödísport, on a professional committee. There are also additional sources of financing for sports. Let us work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u31	Excuse me? That's the right question about the lottery. In fact, in many developed countries, gambling revenue is used to finance sports, culture, and other social needs. health care, indeed. As you know, the situation in Ukraine is different. We have some kind of lottery business right now, de jure, it doesn't exist. And the government offered to settle the issue. The Supreme Council has a bill of government that addresses this issue in a comprehensive manner. It's complex. That's why I'm talking to you, because for more than two years this law has not been reviewed, it's stuck here in Parliament. There is a request for you, to legalize everyone, to help us legalize the gaming business. For our part, we can act within the framework of the current law and now apply licensing conditions. But a complex question can only be settled here in the hall. A request to do so. This will help us to spend more money on financing these important needs. At the moment, no amount of budget will be received from the lottery business, which is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u32	Please, Vladimir Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u33	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleague of the people! As for the mask show stop. I would like to remind you that this law imposes sufficient stringent requirements on law enforcement during searches, or other activities aimed at business. This means that there is such a very strict procedure for getting court appeal, court hearings, searches, removal restrictions and so on, and so on and so forth. So all of this creates obstacles to all of the lawlessness from the power structures. But we can't ban the investigation, by law, at all. I want to emphasize one thing that we had a huge pattern of increasing searches last year. And now there are fewer and fewer signals about the search. And here's a two-part question. Part one. An honest, legal business that pays transparent taxes, wages and so on will be protected both by the Prime Minister and by the government. And so on and so on, we're going to support this kind of law enforcement because we're only interested in the only one, we're going to fill a transparent budget. But I agree with you that there are cases where law enforcement agencies, using their mandate, by the legislation envisaged, are putting pressure on the legitimate business of some kind of intentional thing. From such occasions, we will be severely punished. Made under the Act of Mask Show Stop, a commission, most of which includes representatives of the business association, and they're going to look at all of these cases, and make public open decisions about those law enforcement officers who allowed themselves in an absolutely sudden, voluntary way, to enter and exert pressure on businesses in the legal business. I consider such actions if they are set up as a diversion against the economy of our state, as a diversion against the well-being of our state. And we'll be here hard on one side. Please transfer the materials to the commission, pass the materials to the business office. Last Monday, I invited the Minister of Justice, the Business Ombudsman and the Office of Investment Accompanying. We're going to take the whole package of these cases and we're going to be looking at these things publicly under a direct broadcast. Once again, where the law enforcement system is, we have to say thank you, wherever it is not, to punish and punish harshly. The same should be true of business. This, I think, is going to be a perfectly fair and balanced approach. Thank you for asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to the people's deputy Gusak, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u35	I have two questions, first to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Dear Igor Stepanovich, the first question I asked you two years ago was the government mine debt. Then you said it was an inheritance from the Yatsenuk government, that the Supreme Council needed help and that the problem would be solved. Two years later, the Supreme Council passed special debt relief laws many times, but the problem is not solved. Now the debt is again almost 500 million dollars. It's the biggest problem in "Selivwogilly" where you haven't been for your cadence. When will this abuse stop? And I have a second question for the minister of sport. Igor Alexanderovich, why do we have Olympic results so much worse than the brilliant results of the Paralympics, on the last winter games, only one medal against 25 in the Paralympic?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u36	If you'll excuse me, thank you, Your Honor, for asking. But I have to say, the coal industry's legacy is not from Arsenius Yatsenuk, but from Viktor Fedorovich Janukovich, who in his time completely privatized the central enrichment factories and gave away the layers. Regarding wages for coal miners, the government of Groysman came with debt of 850 million dollars. Today, there is a current debt to miners. What does that mean? This means that not only did we pay the miners in full for two years. But we also extinguished the debt we received. Moreover, and by the way, the Prime Minister of Ukraine points out that the government of Yatsenuk has also reduced this debt. Therefore, you should be told that you should not translate the commitments that were made at that time into today’s government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u38	As for your second question, every medal won by the Olympics, the Paralympics, the neolympics, is very valuable to Ukraine. Regarding the Olympic Games throughout the years of independence, Ukraine took part in the 7 Olympic Winter Games and won three gold medals there: the first in 1994 in Lillehammer, the second in 2014 in Sochi and the third in Pienchang. That's why I think this is Ukraine's success. And we don't have to humiliate the achievements of our Olympics, we don't have to compare the incomparables, we have to compare the achievements of our Paralympics with the successes of other countries and the Olympics with the Olympics. And you don't have to kick our athletes' skulls in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u39	Thank you. And the last question from the factions, from the People's Front, is Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have a question for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Policy. I was approached by the chaplains, the boys, the clergy, who in 2014-2016 were next to our brothers on the fore, who helped psychologically, who were praying for our boys. Unfortunately, they can't get a certificate from a fighter now, because by order of the Ministry of Defense of 24.12. 16th year No. 658 "On the Approval of the Military clergy Service (Capelan Service)" they are unable to obtain it. Please initiate and make a change to this order so that our clergy, our chaplains, will be able to obtain a participant in the fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u41	I thank you for asking. It is indeed in the order of the day. I think so. I believe that, together with the Ministry of Social Policy, we will address this issue and propose appropriate legislative changes to bring this category into line with the regulations that are defined for others who have participated and who are given due status as participants in the fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u42	Thank you. So let's move on to the next chapter -- speeches from the national MPs. The statements from the factions and groups have been completed. Who would like to ask questions from the national deputies, please prepare for the recording and please participate in the recording. Please sign up. Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u43	Vladimir Borisovich, the question is very simple. I support the indignation of self-help colleagues about the "K" Department's invasion of business. And there's a bill of 8057 in Parliament that deprives the BSS of functions that they don't have, namely, the BSS is supposed to protect the security of the state, search for spies and divers, but not break into the offices of companies. And is there a willingness on the part of the government to support a bill depriving the Security Service of its functions? And now for the second question of addition. I was at a citizen's reception in Odessa at the beginning of the month. And here's the answer from the Odessa Fiscal Service: there are numerous, numerous letters, orientation and audit assignments, re-assessments, various scans, care, and so on. In total, the units end up with protocols, which is all really trying to make money from Ukrainian importers and exporters. What position do you have in reforming your government's customs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u44	Thank you, thank you for asking. My position as Prime Minister and the position of government, I am deeply convinced, is the same. We fully support the abolition of the functions of the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police and the Prosecutor's Office, all of which relate to business. This is the anachronism of the Soviet system, which is unacceptable. So we're willing to support the bill that you've introduced, and we would even suggest extending it to solve this problem and remove it from the agenda, this pressure that's happening from the law enforcement system to business systematically. This is what I see when I meet business in the territories. And I think that's what we've adopted the Mask Show Stop Act -- 312 votes -- says that in this Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament, all the national MPs feel very clearly about the tension that's going on. Now with regard to the Ukrainian Security Service. I want to show my respect to the special forces of the Ukrainian Security Service: the Alpha Units, counter-terrorism units, operational units, those involved in counter-intelligence activities and so on. These are the units that are supposed to challenge society, and we have a lot of respect and trust, and there are real heroes working there. As for economic functions, this is an entirely unnatural function of the Ukrainian Security Service. And I'm definitely against it, and I think you know this, this function, and I think I have huge good friends in the economic units of the Ukrainian Security Service. But that doesn't scare me at all. I've talked about it more than once and I'll keep talking about it until they're deprived of their own functions. Now on the issue of customs work in the Odessa region. In general, I want to say that the management of the DFS and customs has done a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u45	One minute, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Head. There is a significant increase in the country’s budget for customs payments. Over the past year plus 70, listen, 70 billion dollars! And that's not the end of it. I think there's so much more, another 70 billion dollars lying there, walking in the shadows today, they need to be restored. And it's not about customs reform. And the question is, we need to set up scanners so that we don't get blocked by tenders, as we're doing today. So we can make more transparent procedures and introduce new software products. We're working on it. If there's not enough government authority, I'll come with a special law here to Parliament to allow us to install these scanners and start a fight with the deeper smuggling that is in the country. We'll ask for your support. And now I'm assigning the State Fiscal Service to carry out an analysis of how many such calls were made at the end of the business, after re-checking by other law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u48	Prepare this statistic. We're going to publish it: how many turns, how many stops, how many credits, and how effective the job is. The whole country needs to know the heroes in the face and we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u49	Dubnevich gives the floor to Andrew Koth’s question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I'm deeply concerned about the situation that we now have in the natural gas pricing market. As you know, we have practically stopped the chemical industry, which is uncompetitive in the world. One of the world’s largest exporters of mineral fertilizers has become one of the world’s largest importers of nitrogen fertilizers. Our crops are now paying 30 percent higher prices for nitrogen fertilizers than the average is. That's what average is, which is in the world. And to my profound belief, NAC "Naftogaz" is running a wrong, mildly speaking, policy on domestic pricing for natural gas for our industry. And then I have a very substantive question. Please tell me, what's the amount in billions of cubes of Ukrainian gas? What is its value? And how much did we buy gas from our partners? And I want a clear argument about why we have such a high price in the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize that the government has no authority to regulate the price of commercial gas in the country. According to the NAC Corporation, Naftogaz Ukraine is an entirely independent state company and is making a decision on its own judgment, as it were. They have an independent supervisory board that controls the company, but a minority of addicts, out of 7 only 3 from power, 4 are independent managers, and we don't influence that either. As far as gas is concerned. We have to stop importing gas first. And we've concentrated as a government on an increase in gas production in the country. And I can tell you that NAC Naftogaz, Crushing before we approved this program and started supporting it, and given them the opportunity to make a reserve and invest in it, were, sorry, poor as church mice, they didn't have any copies. After I took this issue as a priority, we created conditions, they started investing resources in gas extraction, which enabled them to increase their yields last year, over 700 million cubes, so that they bought less abroad. The price of gas is shaped according to world prices, as is the price of grain. We sell grain from Ukraine at market prices. And there's basically no other formula. The whole country had consumed 33 billion cubes last year, 7 billion cubes had been imported from Europe, and 15.5 billion had been acquired by the state company Crushing. Appropriate price formation takes place from world prices for gas in the middle, for gas in the world, and for Europe, including. That's it. We can actually form prices in the country when we stop being a country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u52	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u53	When we import. Export, not import, gas. By 2020, we have to fully ensure our needs, but there is still a great deal of investment to do so, and the Ukrainian Parliament itself has taken many steps to ensure that in 2018 not only a breakthrough in the production of gas by state companies, but also by all of the country's gas companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Teteruk Andriy Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u55	I ask you to pass the word to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u56	Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, there was a work trip yesterday to the region of Ivano-Frankow, where you visited Kosovo, the Cologne. And thank you for discussing the necessary changes to current legislation regarding the status of residents of the highlands, these are the areas of the Cherniveck region. I know that the transfer of land outside the Vashkovetske and Visnička OTH was signed, and that was very positive. Thank you for that. Please indicate whether the budget is sufficient funding to transfer to all newly created land O.T.A.s outside populated areas by the end of the year. And the second. What is your attitude towards the already mature changes to the administrative and territorial system, because there are areas where one community has been created, where there are still servitudes, the council area, and there are duplications of functions? Is this a question that needs to be resolved so that officials do not duplicate functions and that there is less burden on the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u58	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. I would like to stress that yesterday, together with the Ukrainian National Deputies, with the Ministers, I visited Kosovo, held a working meeting on issues of great importance and sensitivity, which is the support of mountain and high mountain communities and regions that need special attention and individual approach. Just imagine, people live at a height of 400 to 600 meters above sea level in the mountains, and children have to travel up to 10 kilometers a day to one side and another to get to school. All of this creates absolutely difficult living conditions. I'm not talking about roads anymore, about jobs, about the development of tourism, about other infrastructure. So the goal of yesterday's exit was the only goal that we had achieved yesterday -- to find the possibility of adopting a comprehensive program of support for populated mountain, high mountain areas. I decided yesterday that, with the agreement of the deputies, we would form a joint working group, including the heads of the local authorities and the government, where we would work out a comprehensive programme of support that would provide and support education, health care, road construction, tourism development, and the agro-industrial complex. Which is very important. We must not forget the cultural heritage of Ukraine, the cultural heritage of the Ukrainians to be preserved. I think these territories are the bearers of that authenticity of our beautiful state and national culture. So all of these questions are going to be reflected in the integrated program, and we're going to be doing full support in these four areas, in these areas. As far as the transfer of land is concerned. Yesterday we made a decision, six more plots, six communities handed over a few thousand hectares of land to ownership. We'll pass it on by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u59	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u60	By the end of the year, we will be handing over the land to all communities. We have resources, we have money, we have everything. And as for the administrative reform. You're absolutely right, we don't need a number of officials, we need efficiency and accessibility of government. That's why we're now working on offering solutions, including the problems that you've mentioned when there's inefficient use of government resources and duplication of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u61	Thank you. Ostrika’s Tetjana Georgievna refuses to speak. Next. Don't you say no? She does. Please turn on the Ostrich Tetjana microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, the impression is that the government today has acted irresponsibly on the issue of the car on a foreign registration, which people call "eurobills." It seems as if government officials are traveling on the roads in space and seeing that the number of such cars is increasing in geometric progress every day. Rather, the State today does not know their true numbers or who governs them. Some Moldovan options are discussed and so forth. Perhaps we should be invited by the Moldovan government to address this issue? There is no government policy to meet the needs of Ukrainians in available imported cars. If you reduce excise duties, reduce excise duties for all, make the clearing of the car available to all Ukrainians. So please now give a clear answer in essence: why the government has moved itself, and why this question has been referred to the committee and to the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u63	The great Tetjana Georgieva! Such a sarcastic performance. If we have to change into another country's government, the Moldovan government, then Parliament will also have to make it Moldovan. Dear friends! I have great respect for our Moldovan colleagues -- our neighbours and our partners. But what I want to tell you is that the Ukrainian government never got away from solving the problems, but it wanted to help solve the problems that were created. I know that you care very carefully about this matter on the committee. And we are ready to participate in order to settle this issue with the legislation of Ukraine. If that were possible. If you delegate the right of the government to settle this issue, I will settle it within one month. But if it is to be settled within the framework of the Ukrainian Parliament, of course, this is where you need the position of the profiling committee in which you have an association discussion. And if you've been watching my statement, I said, however, that what you just said is that I want everyone to be on equal terms. What are these conditions? Let us decide together within the framework of Parliament. We're ready to join the discussion that you've started on the basis of your committee and we're ready to take a constructive position. If the Ukrainian Parliament, by a majority of votes, decides to allow the government to take decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers to settle this issue, I will do so within a month, and you will see that everything will be perfectly fine. So either make a decision on the basis of a committee, or delegate the authority of the government, and we will. Thank you for your questions. And I want to say that our government is professional and the Ukrainian Parliament is professional. And we have every opportunity to make many right professional decisions for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u65	Good afternoon! The State Water Agency is in the process of reorganizing pool management instead of district management. And it's not clear why the Dniestrov swimming centre was formed as ordered by the head of the agency in the Ivano-Frankow district. Although the length of the Dniester is 35 percent smaller than that of the Ternopilski, although most of the waters of the Ternopilish are filled by Dniester, the larger area is tied to the Dniester Basin, and the more to the Prute River is to the Frankish. And we have six water administrations in Ternopolska, and there are only three in Frankish, and many other flaws. So I think the government should now review this issue of the hasty establishment of such pool centres, because it does not allow this experiment without its proper study and discussion with scientists, experts, the public, environmentalists, officials, local conservation structures. Because the officials in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u66	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u67	I don't think the officials in Kiev have any better information than they know. Please take a look at this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. As for the pool principle of management. I don't think there can be any reverse action here, because this is our European practice. As far as the location is concerned. I think this question can be considered, please direct the question, and we will consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u69	Thank you. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich. Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u70	Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. But before that, I would like to focus your attention, and I'm very skeptical about this type of advice: in order for there to be no depression, you have to tell the truth; in order not to get cancer, prevention, you have to smile more; in order not to have sugar, you have to eat sugar; in order not to freeze, you have to wear a sweater, which is not a single, but a thin one. I think that's the advice of the so-called. Minister for those government members who do not have medical education. And I have another question for you. The same person said that 30 percent of Ukraine suffers from mental disorders, and statistics apply to everyone. How does your attitude, or 30 percent, relate to the MP’s corps, to the government’s bed, to the leadership of the Supreme Council? It's one in three who has mental disorders. Please tell us if this applies to the Ukrainian people. Don't give me the answer so-called, she's uneducated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u72	I understand it was a performance, not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u73	No, I mean Mr. Igor, good afternoon, noble colleague of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u74	Just don't say that 1 out of 3 deputies in their faction is the same. Don't say it's going to be an insult to this faction, don't say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u75	No, no. I'm sorry, I mean, Your Honor Mr. People's Deputy Shurm, it's none of your business. You don't go into general statistics around the country. And I honestly think 30 percent is an exaggeration, an absolute exaggeration. Although I think any society has people in it, you've been looking at one case of mental health yesterday. And if we take 423 national deputies present, only one has been exposed to mental health problems. Yesterday you gave the law enforcement system the opportunity to explore this issue. Thank you. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Hopko Hanna gives the floor to the question of Victoria the Bird. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u77	Thank you. I have a question to ask the Minister of Finance. Last week, a bill under the heading 4614 of the Customs Code appeared unexpectedly. Under the European integration sauce, we're trying to move the legalization of smuggling, the supply of dangerous counterfeits to Ukraine, the legalization of actual customs earnings for extra illegal wages when crossing goods across borders. I've always thought, you know, the Ministry of Finance should be worried about filling out the budget, not to legalize the customs scheme, but to expose it. So I have a question: who's running this project, and are you going to call it off? And I want to look separately at Mr. Kubov, and I want to draw attention to this project, because you are now violating the issue of intellectual property rights while we have the Ministry of Counterfeit and Counterfeit that is preventing you from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. I'm having a hard time getting my bearings right now, but the number shows that this bill was registered somewhere, well, not this year, and it's definitely not last year. Let me get this straight and let me give you a detailed written answer. The more I think we've talked about it, yes. And I think it's going to be better this way, the voice I'm going to answer, yes, that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u79	Thank you. And the final question is Goose Igor. None. Tymoshenko Yuri. Colleagues, final question. There's Gus, I'm sorry, Gus is standing in front. Last final question from Igor Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u80	Vladimir Borisovich! Igor Goose, 19th District, Volin. Today, the President of Ukraine appoints a new head of district administration at 15 hours, and I thank you for your position, because I've had dozens of speeches about Mr. Gunczyk's actions. But I want to draw your attention to someone else. I'm asking you to study the direction and establishment of a special commission to study the work of the heads of the Reichs Departments in Volina. The fact is that two RDA heads were detained in bribes last year, one RDA head orders that the district newspaper should reconcile materials with him, if, well, absolutely no gate, other, before he held his head, the position of RDA head, were kept drunk behind the wheel. Another failed tender for the feeding of the Chernobyl children. There's a lot of problems. Please create a commission and check the suitability of the RDA heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Igor, for your question. I'd like to answer it a little bit wider from the point of view of responsibility. You and I have been decentralized in the country. Tens, hundreds of billions, have been handed over. Because of the state and regional development mechanisms we're channeling tens of billions more, this year it's 12.9 billion, to solve the problems of the territories. It's building new objects, roads, infrastructure, solving many other socio-economic issues. I've directed to some areas of the commission very secretly to look at the quality of these tasks. I want to tell you that criticism is a very soft word that I can apply here to the quality of the task. So, as the prime minister of the country, I've given a mandate, and we're now creating special mobile groups that are going to check the areas for budget use, for the application of powers, for the impact entirely on all processes in the country. And where it was supposed to be designed to reconstruct an object of appropriate quality for children (to go to school, excuse me, toilet) or for people with limited capabilities, where they did not make a panda, I will punish them harshly and ask questions about the dismissal of all those who are unable to serve people in a normal and quality manner. I want to tell you that since April-month, we've started checking areas and using state resources. And I won't let anyone down. Someone likes it – they don't like it. Either they're gonna work for people, or I'm not gonna work with people like that. I didn't prove it once. And there's no need for a shellfish in Ukraine. As we put billions in the road today, we barely find these resources, they make them last year, and in that they fall apart. They think nobody's seen it and they're gonna close their eyes on it? That's not gonna happen. We'll find everyone who gave the holtur, and he'll fix it for his money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u83	These include those who drink there, who are driving. They are the heads of the RDA, they are simply a disgrace to state authority and general authority in the country. So they need to be freed from their jobs. I totally agree with you. I will be grateful to the deputies for joining us in this area-checking exercise. Let's give you information where you see inefficiently used resources or inhumane treatment of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u84	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. We thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in the discussion. Thank you, colleagues, applause. [[Applause]] And now, according to the Rules, we have read-out parliamentary queries. And to this honorary mission is invited the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. And I would like everyone to be very careful to participate in the hearing of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u85	Yes, an extremely responsible mission. We have been asked first by Andrey Illenck, President of Ukraine, not to allow the appointment of a judge of the Donetsk District Administrative Court of Abdukadir Karina Escenderovna, who, in violation of the laws and regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine, has declared illegal and has repealed the President's Order on the Assignment of Stephen Bandera as the Hero of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. We have two votes to take. I ask the deputies to vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[11:15:41]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next question. Viktor Razwadowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the repair of the road along Zaricki Street in the village of Velika Volica of the Žitomir Region. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen around the formation of land under public pastures near the village of Miroljubovka in the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Palamarczuk is head of the Ukrainian State Fisheries Agency for the provision of information on the legality of fishing by living bio-resources in the Hersonian region 2017-2018. Igor Mosiyczuk to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology Service and the nadr of Ukraine to end the right to use the drama to individual legal persons in the Donetsk region. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the annulment of, in the event that the requirements of legislation are not met, the decision of the Senior Investigator of the Civil Service Administration in the Kyiv Region of Dorosenka of 30.05.2012 on the recognition of case evidence in criminal proceedings No. 42012100230006 and the accession of 128 land plots in the territory of the Nestzerov Rural Council of the Obuchiv Region of Kiev to its materials. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the issue of the balance sheeter of the building, which is on the 101-A Friendship Street in the city of Kosi Ivano-Frankiv district. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice for carrying out corruption schemes in personnel assignments and for initiating a service investigation in order to exceed official authority as Deputy Minister of Health Kovtonyuk P.A. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of adopting a draft decision on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1114 of 21 November 2012 on the approval of the Standard Regulation on the Emergency (Quick) Medical Care Brigade. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Administration, the head of the Radehiv District Council of the Lviv Region, the head of the government of the public shareholders association Lvivgaz on the issue of connecting gas to buildings in the village of Styrkowice of the Radehiv district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the Management of the Public Shareholders Association of Lvivoblanergo, director of the private enterprise "Energo-success Science and Production Company", Chief of the Radehiv Rem Pat "Lvivoblanergo", head of the Pavlovska Rural Council of the district of Radekhiv district of Lviv, on the lengthening of time and the failure to resolve the problems of the integration of former dormitories in the village of Pavlovi Radekhiv district of Lviv to the electricity supply network. Groups of National Deputies (Godfather, Lyashka, and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation with the provision of life-saving medical supplies. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for ensuring proper conditions for economic activity. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 for the capital repair of the road area of the state value T-19-06 in the village of Mihaylovka of the Region of Sumy. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 for the capital repair of the district road in the city of Ohtirka Sumska District. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of measures to reduce debt on wages. Anatolia Denisenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprise Strategy in Ukraine. Sergia Labazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Pension Fund of Ukraine, Head of Pension Fund in Hmelnicka District on the Rights of Citizens to Pension Insurance. Vitalia Kuril to the executive responsibility of the Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the development of the Luhansk Region’s road infrastructure. Vitek’s arteema to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the failure to unite the restructuring or relocation of the Luhana National Agrarian University. Mustafa-Massi Najima to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for clarification on the extension of the principle of retroactive action during criminal proceedings. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal and the use of measures aimed at bringing to justice and ending corruption committed by officials of the Ukrainian State Fisheries Agency, which resulted in violations of the constitutional rights and legitimate interests of a Ukrainian citizen, a natural person who is an entrepreneur in carrying out economic activities and a rude, deliberate violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Appeal Act by officials of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on violations of the requirements of the People's Deputy Status Act by representatives of central authorities. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the abuse of the office of directors and liquidator, the arbitrator of the Dukla TV in the Poltava region, the failure to meet the contractual conditions for renting and allowing them to violate the rights of landowners. Helen Sotnik to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the application of §2(4) "Transitional Provisions" of the Ukrainian Act "To amend the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality and other legislative acts". Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the settlement of the relationship between the energy provider and the organization that serves the housing, contractual relations for the sharing of domestic technological networks. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the increase in health pay. Ruslana Demczak, until acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, is responsible for providing the inhabitants of the Winnitsky region with the endoprothesis of ball joints. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the national target for cancer control. Hanni Hopko to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the proper planning and specification of the tasks of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine to mark the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust of 1932-1933, the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Hanni Hopko to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the need to activate the actions of the authorities in the celebration of the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust of 1932-1933, the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Victor Ostapchuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the creation of services for the transport of people with disabilities. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the review of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 25. 12th 2013 No. 975. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District State Administration for speeding up the regional procurement of the Watch Tower Forest College. Ljubomir Zubak to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure of the court. Dmitry Lubinz to the head of the Court of Auditors on the possible waste of public funds by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the purchase of backpackers in 2015. Yuri Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about on the completion of repairs and maintenance of the N10 Stry - Mamaliga road area in the Ivano-Frankow region. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exemption of mountain entrepreneurs from registration. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk and Vasil Janicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets with regard to the settlement of the mechanism for guaranteeing the contributions of individuals contributing to Ukrainian credit unions. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the issue of State funding for the expenditure of municipal water undertakings and the water supply of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Vasil Janicky to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the state notary office in the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the definition of state interests in the development of the Master Plan of the villages of Severinjka, Krasuki of the Nordic Rural Council and the villages of Riga and Plaske of the Tarost region of Kyiv Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds in 2018 for the implementation of capital repairs and reconstruction of sociocultural objects and the roads of municipal importance of the Bilocerkow region of the Kyiv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, heads of the government of the Lvivgas public stock company on the requirements of the representatives of PAT Lvivgas and PRBF Kommunalnik to replace the gas pipelines, for consumers of natural gas in the village of Zvenigrad in the region of Lviv. Helen Stotnik to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the provision of information on measures to implement the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine's State Youth Policy in 2017. Alexander Kirsza to the Kharkiv city head for repairing the road along the street of Lucinska in Kharkiv. Andrija Denisenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the execution of Fathers V.I., Emilianov A.S., and the brothers Murachver D.S. and Malik P.S. economic activity in the occupied territories of Ukraine for the purpose of personal enrichment and direct financing of the terrorist organization DNR and the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of emergency response measures to protect the rights of consumers in gas supply services. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of information on the status of implementation in 2017 of the Brovarsky, Barišiv region, and the city of Berezan, Kyiv region, which is being experimented with financial security for the development of public roads. Sergia Dunayeva to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on the involvement of Lysican City Head Shilin Sergey Ivanovic in corruption-related offences, not knowing him about the real conflict of interest during the chairmanship of the Lisican City Council on February 22, 2018, and drawing him to administrative responsibility. Sergia Dunayeva to the Chief of the National Police in the Luhansk region for the commission of the Lysican city chief Shilin Sergi Ivanovic’s corruption - related crime and for the prosecution of him under the law. Andrea Kota to the head of the Provincial District Administration of the Lviv Region for the protection of the rights of residents of the district of Strysk and of the Jewish region of Lviv. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the need to update the fire rescue and special technology. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the space sector in Ukraine. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the inadequacy of the occupied positions of head of the Kelemenack RDA of Sweden V.M. and the heads of the Sokirian RDA of Beskupski P.P. for the failure to implement the reform of the decentralization of power and the creation of OTG in the Kielmenicki and Sokirian regions of the Cherniewsky region. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing flood management in the border area of the Prut and Sučava rivers in the Chernivsky region. Vadim Krivohatka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Attorney-General's Office for the unlawful prosecution of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vadim Krivohatka. Vasil Guljava is in charge of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of possible violations of effective legislation by fiscal officials regarding TOV "Kolos", located in the village of Gradenice, in the Odessa region. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 1177 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the significant deterioration of the socio-economic and demographic situation in Ukraine, particularly in the Žitomir region. Jury Pavlenko to the head of Kyiv City State Administration to provide housing for the Gedz family after changing the status of the family from a family - type home to a family with 10 adopted children. Borislav Bereza to the minister of education and science on the illegal actions of the leadership of the Olympic College of the name John Podubny. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inactivity of the Ukrainian State Service in the affairs of war veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation and the granting of Ukrainian citizenship as a participant in hostilities. Alexander Nechayeva to Sumsky City Head on the urgent solution to the issue of the preservation of day-care clinic No. 2 and the restoration of pay payments to teachers of the Sumska City Children's Hospital of St. Zinayda. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an immediate solution to the issue of compensation for saved subsidies for 2017 to the inhabitants of Putovl Sumska District. Igor Guza to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for information provided by the Turkish side on the causes of the death of a minor citizen of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the development of a legal and regulatory act on the delegation of individual powers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs service centres to the local Administrative Services Centres. Anna Romanova to the Chernigow City Head, head of the Chernigiv District State Administration, for not allowing Chernigiv’s professional lifeline to be reduced and merged with another educational institution. Anna Romanova to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the removal of barriers to entry into Ukraine of citizens from the developed countries of the world. Tetjana Ostrikova to the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory to provide the information necessary to establish a monument to Colonel Boris Magerowski’s army. Tetjana Ostrikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal and regulatory settlement of the issue of the natural loss of petroleum products. Romana Macola to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the head of the Chief Executive of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Hmelnicki district, for the conduct of a pension census for citizens of Vlasyuk Galini Stanislavni. Romana Macola to the head of the Hmelnick district government to resolve the issue of financing the repair of the local road of O231210 Shepetovka-Cudniv-Brdichov-Cherniyevka. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Kirovograd Air Traffic Service team of the Dnipropetrov Regional Structural Unit of Ukraine. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government to provide information on the reconstruction of the children's institution in the village of Buzaki Kamin-Kashiri district of Volin district. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state, problems and prospects of the development of the Higher Education Institutes I-II levels of accreditation and professional (professional and technical) education. Yuri Timoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the tense situation with the cost of paying salaries to officials of the budgetary institutions of the Ivano-Frankov region. Yurya Timoshenko to the Colomia City Head of Johno-Frankow district for the assignment of the Colomia Children's Music School No. 1 to Roman Rubinger's name. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the long-term failure to execute a court decision. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market on the implementation process of Directive 2014/57/EU. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on the Possible Conflict of Interests of Ludmila Denisov during the vote on the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Sergey Leschchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for work in the reconstruction of water approaches, manoeuvring zones and operating areas near docks at the South Seaport. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Protection of Pensioners' Property Rights, from the number of employees of internal affairs bodies guaranteed under article 63, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, and some others. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the review of the calculated amount of educational subsidy. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking on the need to review the request of the Credit Association of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence Air Workers of Odessa, which represents the interests of 1,000 133 members. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen the financial stability of the regions. Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction of Ukrainian Housing and Utilities for the restoration of the function of the Single National Register of Citizens who need to improve living conditions. Igor Popov to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of delay in appointing ambassadors to Ukraine in foreign countries. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the promotion of the community of the village of Velikopole in the region of Lviv in demarcating the monumental and protective status of the local church of the Council of the Holy Goddess, which was destroyed by fire. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine on the question of the eligibility of being head of the State Fisheries Agency in the Lviv region. Mikoli Kadikala to the executive duty of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the section of the Black Customs 'Prubne'. Oleg Osuhovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenk, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy for Restoration of Social Protection for participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for a comprehensive solution to the problem of all investors of the Bank Mikhailovsky. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring that local self-government bodies are properly implemented by State-guaranteed obligations regarding the payment of individual categories of citizens. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Order of the Passenger Transport Contest on the Bus Route of General Use to ensure transparency of the billing provided by carriers and proper control of the validity of tariffs for passenger transport services. Roman Semenha to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the actual calculation of the rates for the standard connection of power plants for a number of areas. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Road Service in the Hmelnicke District on the need to allocate funds for the capital repair of the section of the road in the village of Polyachov of the Hmelnitsk district. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of farmers and individual farms in the transition to new milk production standards. Jaroslava Markević to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the raiding of territories and property of the PRAT "ATEK". Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of police officers in violating the right of a minor to housing. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration to decide on the issue of funding for repair work at the Vepritsky Foundation of the Vepritsky General School of Education, I-II. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the issue of the restoration of the kindergarten in the village of Lisniki Kyivo-Svetoshini district of Kyiv region. John Melnichuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the decomposition of the land of the state-owned enterprise Yaltuskow Research and Selection Station of the Institute of Bioenergy Cultures and Sugar Storms of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. John Melniczuk to the prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow district, head of the Johno-Frankow district administration, on the situation of the renaming of Jaroslav Galan Street in the village of Sopas of the Joint District Society. Andrija Illenka, head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Socio-Economic Development, head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, director of the KMDA Housing and Utilities Infrastructure Department for amending the special budget fund of the city of Kiev regarding the forecasting of expenses for the heating of the facades of residential buildings. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the situation in the area of governance and privatization of property in Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to arrange for the work of the Hmelnicki Administrative Services Centre. Groups of National Deputies (Makaryana, Tkakouk and others) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the Rector of Odessa National Medical University, Valery Zaporozhan. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for not allowing the school process to stop and for the closure of the 147th Thessaloniki district of Kiev with the transfer of more than 500 students to a distance form of education, as well as a change in the purpose of the building. Jury Levchenk to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, the Head of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region, the Chief of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrovsk region, the Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region, the Head of the Directorate of the BSS in the Dnipropetrov area, on the use of urgent measures of response to the inaction of the authorities of the investigation, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of the city of Krivi Rig in investigating the disappearance and death of young Amina Mengo. Yuri Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority for the immediate restoration of the bus route by connecting the town of Yellow Waters — the village of Maryanovka in the district of Petyachat district of Dnipropetrov. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, on the implementation of measures to prevent environmental pollution by harmful chemical emissions from residents of the village of Jareska Shisyak district of Poltava and surrounding areas as a result of illegal construction of the installation of the production and stabilization of carbon dioxide. Sergey Kaplin to the President of the U.S. Animal Hunting Federation on bringing the internal documents of the U.S. Hunting Dogs Federation to European standards as part of a warning of animal cruelty during animal trials and the fights of dogs of animal species on foot with the use of wild animals as travesty material. Paul Kishkar to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inequitable construction of a water pipeline on the street of Tractorny in the city of Vasilkov. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the prosecutor of Kyiv regarding the improper performance of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor’s Office. Victor Krivenk to the State Audit Service of Ukraine regarding the improper use of state subsidies to the city budget of Vasilkova. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Regional Development Fund for the implementation of the project of the full thermosanization of the building of the Czernykhiv Regional Medical Union of the Žitomir Region. Anton Yatzenka to the head of the Monastery City Council to provide clarifications and information on the legality of the decision - making process by the City Council of the Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies (Sustlow, Freez, Ricco) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the modification of the Temporary List of Military, Sergeant, and Senior Staff to ensure gender equality in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Gorvati and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the convicted person, a citizen of the Ukraine of Chikos Edvard Pavlovich, who is being punished in the territory of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Yurya Derevyanka, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to ensure that patients with transplanted organs are immunosuppressive. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to ensure timely payment of salaries to officials of the budgetary institutions of the Ivano-Frankow region and the non-admission of late accounts payable to employees of budgetary institutions. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, Head of Government of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing and Parliamentary Control on the volume of acquired housing and financing of affordable housing programmes, credit to young families, as well as partial interest on commercial bank loans under the mortgage system for the period 2013-2018. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Health Administration of the Zitomir District State Administration for the medical protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the calculation and long-term prognostically based model of the impact of changes in the concept of basic education on the scientific and technological, innovative potential of Ukraine and on the fundamental science of Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to remove protectionism and favour one of the operators of the gaming market, the need to enter the player's card, the certification of gaming equipment and software into it, the need to introduce the possibility of drug distribution in gaming facilities. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the Recalculation of Pensions. Jaroslava Dubnević until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide hearing aids to Anastasia Borovec, 2004, was born with a disability of childhood. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to respond to the situation in the village of the Tarutin Forest Region of Odessa. Sergey Rudika is under the responsibility of the Smilian City Head to repair the roads of general use of local value in the city of Smil of Cherkas region. Sergey Rudika to head the Cherka District State Administration, the head of the Smilyan District Council of the Cherkas region, the head of the Kamyan District Council of the Cherkas region for the repair of roads of general use of local value within the Kamyan and Smilyan regions. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heratchenko, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to Ukraine’s finance minister for the implementation of international technical assistance projects. Oksana Bilozer to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to protect the housing rights of investors in the construction of a residential complex called "Zaboticsky Coastal Quarter" in Odessa. Igora Artushenko and Mikoli Frolova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation in the work of Pat Zaporozhyeblanergo. Groups of National Deputies (Zolobeck, Kozir, and others) A total of 36 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in front of the Mikolai Shipbuilding Company for the maintenance of the Ukrainian missile cruiser and its further maintenance. Constantine Jarinic, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kirovograd District State Administration for the provision of medical supplies for diabetics and nonsugar diabetes in the city of Alexandria Kirovograd. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the approval of the tested copyright education programs for the primary school. Alexander Dombrovski, until he was temporarily acting as Ukraine’s minister of health, was involved in providing treatment for a severely ill child named Parpolita Caterina. Mikoli Kucher to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the extension of criminal investigations against the director of TOV "Teplik-Agro" Anchenka Vasil, committed in the Hellenic Region of Winnick. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate operation of a two-month-old child with a congenital intestinal defect in a foreign clinic. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent resolution of the problem with the gas supply of the city of Novograd-Wolinski. Victoria Voytzicka to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine to ensure the stability of Ukraine's gas transport system. Igora Lucenka to the minister of justice of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to violations of the current Ukrainian legislation and the abuse of her official duties through criminal negligence (service negligence) authorized by officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. We finished our consideration of today’s questions. I now invite the deputies of those who have expressed the desire to speak in response to the request of the National MP. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka. I'm warning you, three minutes. There will be no sequel because we have many willing speakers. And we'll finish at 12 o'clock. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u86	Good afternoon, Ukraine. I am not satisfied with the answer to the request that Ukraine still has such cynical double standards in the area of Ukrainian citizenship. You know, when it comes to compiling political accounts, they are very quick to deprive citizens of Saakashvili, then Borovika, then even the former deputy of Artemenko, and I haven't been able to get an answer to the question for years: why not have Ukraine's former Crimean prosecutor, known to all as "nish-maj", Mrs. Plonska. I get answers from the National Security and Defence Council, from the Presidential Administration, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the BSS, all translate responsibility to each other. Last answer. It turns out the Attorney General's Office doesn't have any information that P.D. is a citizen of another state. It's just absurd, because she's a member of the Russian State Duma, she can't be a member of the State Duma of Russia, if Mrs. Plutosca is not a citizen of Russia. So that's how it confirms its status. Moreover, in response to the RNBO, I have been informed that they have placed on the sanctions list, imposed international sanctions on Mrs. Plonsky as a citizen of Russia. When I ask them where they got this information, they say we got it from the Foreign Office. When I go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they tell me they don't have that kind of information, and so on and so forth. So in the right cases, when it comes to billing, double citizenship can be found very quickly. When you don't need to, when you don't know the nature of the arrangement at all, they just don't. And I still have a minute. I want to say that yesterday in this Parliament, there was a simple abuse of democracy in our workplace, in fact a crime against democracy. Yesterday Parliament refused to cancel or at least transfer electronic declarations for anti-corruption activists. So we're actually repeating Russian methods, Putin's methods, his "verified book" when we're making the same commitments as he made to foreign agents in Russia. And starting on April 1, almost a little more than a week, they're going to bring criminal responsibility to people who fight corruption. That is, those who expose corrupters have been placed on one level with those who steal this money, while the anti - corruption lawyer does not take a penny of government money and that he does not make decisions on behalf of the state. While electronic declarations were the mechanism of control over officials. But the corrupt elites in the Presidential administration committed a crime in this rostrum a year ago and refused to correct that mistake yesterday. And unfortunately, Ukraine is going to take a very long time to absorb these consequences of its wrong actions when this is going to be a complication of relations with the European Union, and already Commissioner Mogherini makes it clear that this will slow our movement towards European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u87	Thank you. Wait, there's Vladimir. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! I asked the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the principles under which the subsidy was allocated to the socio-economic development of individual territories, which was materialized by the Cabinet of Ministers since December 6, 2017. Since the situation is such that separate areas, cities, and villages, which are strangely compatible with the boundaries of certain districts, have received no amount of subsidies. I associate this absolutely with the political moment because the money was distributed to the close and to my own, those who can please the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as those deputies and likely candidates for the next parliamentary elections, who guaranteed victory for themselves, and then during the next political campaigns, to make the necessary result. I didn't get an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers. Then came a note stating that the matter had been handled by a mythical commission that was considering the submission of Ukrainian national deputies, and she made a decision. But as for the composition of the commission, as to who heads the commission, what positions, what principles, what principles, how the commission was led by it, there is absolutely no information. On Friday's last meeting the previous Friday, on "the hour of questions to the government," I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine this question. The Prime Minister of Ukraine agreed not to answer that question at all. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to provide this information. The composition of the commission, the position or the document and the criteria, and the method of calculation were governed by this commission. Minutes of the sessions of the commission on which the questions were considered are why the reasoning was made. Why did it happen that certain areas that coincide with the boundaries of the districts did not receive a single penny at all? What have hundreds of thousands been punished for? In what ways are they disloyal to the State of Ukraine? Disloyal to the government? I would ask that you do not confuse the country with its majesty, as some politicians do. I demand and appeal to the presiding officer to ensure that the official answer is given within the time limits set by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u90	Dear citizens of Ukraine! On January 19, 2018, I addressed the Cabinet of Ministers with the following question. Disease and the epidemic of measles today have become dangerous not only for us but also for the European community. No one can remember the year when more than 8,000 citizens of Ukraine were diagnosed with measles in one epidemic season. Over 5,000 children were affected, and the rest are adults. Several deaths. Regrettably, even this situation did not lead to an official discussion of the matter by the Ministry of Health, nor did any college, I would say, colleges where collective decisions are made. And that's very strange, because a few years ago, when it was necessary, let's say, write down or ask the international community, approaching the end of the polio vaccine, four cases of this disease in the Zakartat region were declared an epidemic. After that, by the way, this vaccine came with a violation of the refrigeration regime, it's termed, and so far the $3 million goods that the Canadians gave us, they're stored, unknown, disposed of or not disposed of. But let's go back to the crust. My question, of course, was that everything was re-addressed by the Ministry of Health, given an entire list of what they were doing, a developed methodology, a selection meeting, a training exercise. People get sick, they die, and they train, they hold meetings, it's okay. But the most interesting, most interesting, came later. Here's a whole list of data that shows that 10 billion dollars spent abroad for medicines, including vaccines, have been set aside for today. In 2018, in February, vaccines purchased at the cost of 2016 begin to provide. Where's 2017? Where's all the medicine, and where's all the money? Little does this confirm the unprofessional nature of the Ministry of Health. Medical supplies are being redistributed for oncological children purchased at the cost of 2013. If in 2018 there is a redistribution of not only products but also medicines, laboratory materials, it shows that they do not possess the materials that they need. Five years later, they say that there is no redistribution in one area, and there is no redistribution in the other. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers. Listen to the Ministry of Health about their localization work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u91	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u92	Two seconds. Two words, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u93	I warned you. All of it. I warned you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u94	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! On February 9th, in Parliament’s Hall, I read out my parliamentary request to the speaker of Paris, in which I asked him to contact the coalition of MP factions for information when it was planned to appoint a health minister, an agrarian politician, and an information policy minister, and whether appropriate consultations were held with the coalition. Yet, Andrew Parubius replied that despite the requirements of 83 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the question of organization and the work of the coalition in Parliament was not defined by the Supreme Council Rules. So he said that the requirements of the Constitution are not being met, and it turns out that they're all being set up. He also noted that the interaction of MPs and officials with the coalition took place on the basis of established parliamentary traditions. Think, not on the basis of the Constitution, not on the basis of the Rules, but on the basis of established parliamentary traditions. The couple refused to contact the coalition and handed over my request to the committees. Such a reaction by the Chief of the Supreme Council indicates that he has in fact admitted that there is no coalition in the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that the Constitution provides for the formation of a coalition of MP factions in the order established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Yet, in the four years of the new power, the order of activity and the cessation of the coalition of MP factions has still not been regulated. This must be in the hands of both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. I have personally registered three bills: 4331 since 30 March 2016: 4716 of 24 May 2016: 7541 of 2 February 2018 – which relate to the order of formation of the coalition. But none of them were considered in the Supreme Council or even considered in the relevant profiling committees. It is convenient, perhaps, to deceive Ukrainian citizens about the presence of a coalition, about the fact that everything is going well with us. But I remind you that the President has the right, not the duty, to announce the cessation of coalition activity and to properly reload the Supreme Council if 30 days of this coalition are not available. Dear colleagues, I understand that we haven't had a coalition for more than 30 days, for several years now there's no coalition, but today the President doesn't want to take this responsibility and say that he's a guarantor of the Constitution getting back together. He will accept that there is no coalition, he understands that there is no coalition, and he does not want to announce these 30 days and accordingly dissolve the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to appeal to the coalition of MPs to stop blocking the bill that provides for the resolution of the coalition's activities, as well as you, your fellow dignitaries, to take a more active position, because it turns out that we have returned the Constitution, and the Supreme Council Rules have for four years now no fundamental things that are related to the activities of the majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u95	Thank you. And Igor Shurma's final speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u96	Honorable citizens, distinguished national deputies and presiding officers! I'll tell you where respect for Ukrainian parliamentarians comes from. When there's 15, 30, 40 seconds on the rostrum, they don't give you 2 seconds to complete a meaningful sentence. It's people who sit and watch, and they say it's not justice. Moreover, a member of the board for those two seconds requires 20 seconds of his stay here, and the word does not allow to end. And that's how respect for the MPs is raised. But I would like to say that this is also respect for the leadership of the Supreme Council. Because Groissman, when he was the Head of the Supreme Council, was listening to those people sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, allowing themselves not to write off or write off badly, that is, not on the subject of parliamentary motions. We're wasting our time here, not responding to the real state of things. And I'll tell you what that looks like. In 2016, taking into account the high-quality experience of the integration of Lviv district dental clinics into the structure of the National Medical University, a number of deputies, 26 delegations from different factions, from different regions, almost all of the lions, went to the Cabinet of Ministers: transfer the building of the scientific research institute to the balance of the medical university, preserve science, preserve the teaching process, and preserve the availability of practical structures. What do you think? Reformers. Today, the answer came to me (today!), that's all. The transfer of this structure to the balance sheet takes place by law. They don't even know that by the end of last year, this institution was already admitted to a medical university. This is the Ministry of Health! The building was handed over, the payroll fund was not transferred. The year. And that's not a response from the authorities. What's more, in April last year, I'm calling, there's a signal of the yield of terminated drugs purchased for. international organizations. April! In January of this year, there is a response from the audit service: a number of violations have been found, they have been contacted by the BPO, the prosecutor's office, and all the structures are about 150 million. In a year. Why a year later? And who will be responsible for the fact that all of this was at the warehouses for a year? Today those sitting there were sitting here. They're sitting there. They don't respect national MPs, they don't respect leadership. And as long as leadership does not require the head of government to have a attitude toward the legitimate rights of deputies, so will respect leadership. You will expect to be told the same way and turn off the microphones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u97	Thank you. In the world, there is no democratic country in which there is an extension of the term for a national MP. Time's up, the show's over. [[B in m in s a l in]] For all of us! And I warned you today that it would be given three minutes exclusively, and the time would not be extended. I think the rules were clear and clear for everyone. Thank you. We now have a recess in our session and continue our work at 12:30. There's going to be a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. People's deputies please come back at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u98	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We continue our plenary session. I ask you to return to the session room after the interruption of all the national deputies who are planning to sign up and participate in the presentations in our traditional Friday column, "Rizzne". Please, dear colleagues, I understand, everyone who wishes is already in the hall. I'm asking you to do a recording of the performance in the "Victory." Please, People's Deputy Linko. Please, People's Deputy Linko. I'm sorry, yes, Lozova, they're handing over the word to their leader of their faction to the National Deputy Laszko. Please, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. This week, I was forced to go to Chernigov, where the decision of the local authorities was to close the Chernigovske Lübeck No. 13. I ask you to show us on the screen of these beautiful girls, who are nearly 300 of whom are taught in the Chernigian Life List. Like this, I want the whole country to see these beautiful girls. Three hundred of them are taught there, twenty of them are orphans. Most of them are girls from low-income families and rural families. The government's decision on vocational and technical education was passed on to finance local budgets, and in the local budget, on account of the lack of funds, they close not only in Montenegro, but across Ukraine. After communicating with Mayor Czernigov Vladislav Atroshenko, we solved the problem, and the Chernigian lifeline No.13 will continue to work. But how many more of these in Ukraine are the vocational and technical institutions that the authorities are just closing down on the economy? That's why we demand the government, the urgent need and the problem is the restoration of state funding for vocational and technical education. So that orphans, children from rural families, from low-income families, have the opportunity to learn. Knowledge is the kind of baggage you don't carry behind your shoulders. And people with work skills, with great jobs, will have the opportunity to feed themselves in adult life, to realize themselves. When they get the knowledge, they won't go to the district, they won't go to the back, they won't go to the generals. They're going to work, they're going to earn, they're going to have healthy, beautiful girls and boys and they're going to change the negative, unfortunately, demographics of today in the country. To do this, the authorities must change economic policies radically, trading not raw materials, not cheap labour, but ready - to - produce. Because in the event of the closure of vocational and technical education, where will these children go? They will either go to Poland because there is a minimum wage of 500 euros and in Ukraine of 120. Or they will continue in the worlds, seeking a better destiny rather than earning money in their own country. The Radical Party team offers an alternative to the politics of today’s authorities. We're not defending the raw structure of the economy. Because trade in raw materials is actually a predict to Ukraine forever on poverty, on begging, on borrowing from all over the world. And that's why we're demanding, in addition to restoring state funding for vocational and technical education, the implementation of public policy to provide labour. We demand government, the power to increase wages and pensions for Ukrainians! This is the key to overcoming poverty. The authorities tell us that there is no money to pay, no pension. They don't, because they let them steal. We know where to get the money so that people can have decent wages and decent pensions. I've already told you about a shameful corruption story when a 4G-frequency tender was launched on March 6th. We could get at least a billion dollars from selling these frequencies to the government budget. They were sold five times cheaper. Why? Because it's obviously cashed into the cabinets and pockets of those who sold these 4G frequencies. Another incredibly mega-corruption story is stealing $6 billion from Private Bank. Year and 3 months as the state nationalized Private Bank. There's 150 billion dollars of Ukrainian money in there, our people who voted for us. The government took 150 billion dollars from you and put them in the hole of Private Bank, in the pockets of its former owners of Colomaic and God-loving, who are now sitting in foreign lands that have stolen $6 billion and so far, over a year and a half, they don't answer. When these stolen $6 billion is returned to Ukraine, to the state budget, it is possible to set a minimum wage of 15,000 dollars per month and a minimum pension of 8,000 dollars per month. If the authorities investigate crimes, if the authorities do not allow the oligarchs to engage in corruption and rob Ukrainians and rob the Ukrainian budget, then the source of the public budget is economic growth. Because instead of going into the pocket of the oligarchs, if they went to work, to rebuild the economy, to employ Ukrainians, to the social sphere, there would be no need to go abroad. So the Radical Party team demands that the rapists for the children you see, for the sake of millions of Ukrainian children, do everything you can to get the authorities to stop robbing. We're asking you to investigate crimes that, in particular, from Private Bank, I'm not talking about the dozens of other banks that went down on Gonnaareva, allowing you to steal from Private Bank, covering and holding you accountable. We're asking the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Attorney General's Office for the real investigation and return to Ukraine of stolen funds in Private Bank, $6 billion, 4 billion stolen from Bank Mihailovski and dozens of other banks. Attracting to the responsibility of those who rob Ukrainians rob them of their ability to earn money and to live in a dignified home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u100	Please, the national MP, Captain, is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u101	Thank you, Chairman. Today we listened to the minister of youth and sports, Mr. Zhdanov, who reported on the success of our Paralympic team. Of course, we are very happy about this success, but for some reason Mr. Zhdanov did not mention the failure of our main team and the reasons for such a failure. Obviously it's not about athletes, it's about government policy. But today I'm not just going to talk about sports. I'm going to talk about young people because young people are leaving Ukraine, and these are catastrophic numbers. I have two completely different documents here. One document is a study by the famous international bank Barclays, which speaks of mass migration from Ukraine. In Poland alone, it is estimated that by the end of 2019, 2.5 million Ukrainians will be leaving. A key number of these people will be young people working in the creative sphere, in the transport field, and in the innovation field. And another document called The Government Report, where young people are given half-pages, half-pages of incomprehensible total reporting on some projects involving 300 young people or 200 young people, about some seminars and very dotive initiatives in youth policy. I have a question. Two and a half million young Ukrainians who are about to leave the country, if they do not leave the country, and a few thousand people who are trying to teach the Ministry of Youth and Sports for some reason. Where is the system policy to leave young people in this country? I turn to young people, those who still have faith and hope for that state. It is up to you today whether you can make this Ukraine a success, whether there is a future in that country. We can make clear demands, including to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. If the Ministry of Youth is unable and the minister is unable to form youth policy, let's do it ourselves. If the minister is unable to stop the outflow of young people, let us ask questions about his political responsibility. But without young people, without young people being left here to build this country to create GDP, the future of this country is impossible. So please, young people, unite and demand this authority for your future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u102	Please welcome national deputy Halasyuk. He is given the word Kirichenko and Skuratowski, so six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u103	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, my fellow countrymen, this week we have adopted a very important bill in Parliament in the first reading, initiated by a team of the Radical Party on criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood from Ukraine. It's very important. Because today, for this crime, the fine and the confiscation of this ring, but it doesn't work. We see that smuggling is happening today, the country's economic borders are leaking, and the Ukrainians are losing their jobs, losing their wages and pensions, going abroad to feed their families. It's totally insane. We've adopted a moratorium on the removal of roundwood from Ukraine for 10 years. This moratorium has been fully operational since 2017. We see huge positive results. Two billion additional investments in woodworking. This increase in capital investments is double, these are dozens of new productions, these are tens of thousands of new jobs in Ukraine. For 4 billion dollars, raw exports, i.e. exports of products made from the forest of Ukraine, have increased. Half a billion additional incomes from salaries, pensions financed by the army, education, medicine, and so on. The moratorium that Oleg Lášk and I did not simply choose and accept with your support in this room is working hard today. But he can work harder once we cover up the roundwood smuggling. With the best Ukrainian economists, we have estimated the volume of smuggling. Over the last five years, it's over a billion dollars from the United States. Imagine, our funds with you, taxpayers flowing abroad, creating jobs there, creating prosperity there, and making us poor and dependent. And then foreign partners come to us and say, we're willing to give you credit, but for this loan, cancel the moratorium. So we say no, no, no, no, no! A moratorium on the export of roundwood will be preserved, despite all the credit blackmail, on all the political pressure that we do not do abroad is a national interest. Because, first of all, it's ecology. We have to take care not only of ourselves, not of those living in Ukraine today, but of future generations, for the Ukrainian forest belongs to our descendants. Secondly, we have to make sure that there is a job and a normal salary in Ukraine. It's not like our woodscap went to Poland, it's creating jobs, it's creating prosperity, and Ukrainian workers are going there to make money, to feed their families. It's not normal. Make your own conclusions. It's 80 dollars worth of roundwood. This paper, which is then produced abroad, is already worth $400 a tonne. And the furniture that is made of our Ukrainian roundwood is already $3-4 thousand per tonne. And the answer to the question is why in Ukraine there is five to six times less prosperity than in Europe. But because we specialize in exporting raw materials, which means poverty. And our neighbors specialize in what they do with our raw materials, and also with our fellow citizens' hands they're made, they're ready to produce, so they specialize in wealth, and then they give us more credit. Unfortunately, this is in almost every area of the Ukrainian economy today. Judge for yourself. Grain, flour that Ukraine exports around the world, costs 5 dollars per kilogram. Five bucks a pound. When flour is made out of this grain, it’s already 10 grams per kilogram, when spaghetti is made, it’s 20 bracelets per kilogram, and gluten is 50 grams per kilogram. So what is being done today by the government that is doing today's power and the economic policy that it is? They are turning Ukraine into a raw colony, in addition to other successful countries. We're told that Ukraine doesn't need industry, they say it's atavism, it's last century and so on, and they're running large-scale industrialization programs themselves. Look at the strategy of the European Union, which is where industrial development takes place. The development of the innovation industry is what distinguishes a successful country from a raw material colony. We're being turned into a raw colony today. The Radical Party team has the opposite view. That's why we've proposed an industrial reform package, some of which has already been adopted and works for the Ukrainian economy and for each of you. It's the Forest Disposal Act, which is the Law on Restrictions on the Exploitation of Metallurgy abroad, in order for tens of thousands of Ukrainian metallurgy to have jobs and normal income in Ukraine, this is the Energy Services Contracts Act, which today will save gas in order not to buy it abroad. We had a very unique Ukrainian law on "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" on our first reading. Look at the fierce opposition against him coming from abroad and from the Ukrainian salespeople. Why is this opposition? And because foreign producers are fighting for our market, they want to sell us ready-made products, and we're fighting for the future of Ukrainians. Because we want this paper to be made in Ukraine instead of abroad. For hundreds of millions of dollars a year, we buy what we produce abroad. Such policies do not lead to success. So our team of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko and our thinkers, and from other factions and groups of parliament, we offer development and support for Ukrainian production and the creation of conditions for transition from the regime of the raw material colony to a successful European country. That's the only way we'll be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u104	People's deputy wolf is invited to the floor, please. People's deputy wolf is invited to the floor. Please. Dear colleagues, I see your plans. I am the only one who remembers that this is a violation of the Rules. At two o'clock, you'll pick it up and take it to the hideout, you can go to my office, there's nothing disappearing. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u105	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable citizens! Last week, there was a re-enlargement of candidates for membership in the Nuclear Club. A potential 11 member was Saudi Arabia, which declared its intention to create nuclear weapons if Iran did. Among the contenders of the new nuclear powers India and Pakistan, the unofficial nuclear power Israel, the new one, the de facto, the North Korea nuclear one, Iran, with a suspended nuclear program. And now, the potential nuclear power is Saudi Arabia. The spread of nuclear weapons around the world is the result of failed policies by five traditional nuclear powers, permanent members of the UN Security Council. A number of nations have never joined a non - proliferation treaty and consider it the legitimate and most reliable safeguard against external aggression. Since 2014, they have every reason to feel that way. The whole world suddenly saw that the guarantees given to Ukraine by the signing states of the Budapest Memorandum in exchange for the refusal of nuclear weapons were not carried out by those who gave them. Pandora’s nuclear box was irresponsibly opened. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine inherited the world’s third nuclear potential with nearly 2,000 strategic warheads, 2.5 times the size of Britain, France, and China combined. Thus, failure to meet Ukraine’s obligations under the Budapest Memorandum undermines the entire regime of non - proliferation of nuclear weapons. But it discredits the very idea of international safeguards as a nuclear disarmament mechanism. How can we ignore this fundamental international legal instrument that implements the most important aspect of collective security in the world -- the principle of nuclear non-proliferation? What destructive signal does this send to the entire world, the same North Korea, Iran, and others? President Prashenko's Radical Party calls for the initiation of an international summit in Kiev and for the participation of the immediate signatures of the Budapest Memorandum, former presidents: Clinton, President of Ukraine Kuchma and Prime Minister of Great Britain Major. Its results should change the format of today’s negotiations. For one table with Ukraine and Russia, the leaders of the nuclear powers — the United States, Britain, and France and China — are to sit down. We cannot mess with the questions on which mankind’s destiny depends. We have to provide a peaceful sky without nuclear fungi over the heads of children in the world. Restoring Ukraine’s territorial integrity is a necessary step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u106	Please welcome the national MP Jarinich, please. Thank you. I'll tell you. Let's get this straight, and now the deputy Jarinich is speaking, and I'll give you a minute on your poster, and then you'll take it off. Okay? Please, Mr. Jarinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u107	Jarinic Constantine, Peter Dusty Block. Dear Irina Volodymyr, distinguished MPs, respected compatriots! Today, I want to give my speech to a problem that is being violated almost daily by the inhabitants of my native 99th district. And this is the problem of being able to help with the birth of a child. As a doctor, I would like to draw your attention to extremely disconcerting statistics. Every year the number of Ukrainians is decreasing, you'll think about 200,000 people. Of the 100 dead, only 63 are born. And this dynamic tends to get worse. Regrettably, the State’s policy of supporting young families today is virtually inconceivable. Please ask each of you a completely rhetorical question: Is it possible at the present price level to provide at least basic needs for a child if the amount of government aid is 860 dollars per month? I'm sure it's not. That's why, along with my colleagues at the Petra Prashenko Block, Andriy Shinkovič and a group of national deputies, Bill No. 6576 was drafted and registered, which was called upon to make State support for the birth of a child fair and tangible to young families. If the bill is adopted, the amount of material assistance at birth will increase threefold and the quarterly will increase as the living minimum increases. This is unacceptable when the price of goods and services continues to rise steadily. In addition, the bill provides for the differentiation of such payments, namely, their increase at the birth of the second, third, and every subsequent child. In doing so, it is vital that the payment of such assistance be stopped if the funds are not used or if the parents do not provide the right conditions for the full maintenance and upbringing of the child. Then I would like to ask the Family and Youth Policy Committee to consider, at its meeting, the draft law in question and to present it for consideration in the Supreme Council session hall. I believe that the State support of young families and their children should become tangible and fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Once again, I remind my honourable colleagues that this is a violation of the Rules when items are brought into the session room that have no bearing on the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask you to take off the poster afterwards. We had already had a negative experience, when the Presidency was suspended by posters and converted the presidency of the Supreme Council into a board of announcements, then we saw the negative consequences of a similar story. That's why I'm asking you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to take it off at 14 o'clock just as carefully and take it to the shelter of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I'm not going to lose anything, I'm going to give it to you in whole and in safety. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar. I'd like you, my dear colleague, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u109	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Today. Dear colleagues, today I have raised this issue before the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Policy. It's about our brothers, the military chaplains, but the names of those military chaplains who, by the age of 16, from the 14th to the 16th, were on the front line, were next to our boys. And unfortunately, according to the Order of the Ministry of Defense of 24.12. In 16th year, under the heading 658, "On the Approval of the Military Ministry (Capelan Service) in the Armed Forces of Ukraine" the corresponding position is approved, which provides that the selected and recommended clergy, once approved, are admitted to the posts of employees in the relevant units of the U.S.S.A. But according to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantees of their social protection can be granted as a participant in combat by staying directly in the ATO areas during its period. Regrettably, chaplains from 14 to 16 years of age are not included in this command and are unable to become part of the fighting. Being near, being forward, being in Happiness, being in Stanica Lugansk, being in Debaltsev and other cities, where our boys have liberated our Ukraine from the invader, unfortunately they can't get a participant in the fighting now. So please consider my speech to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice to initiate amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, regarding the recognition of military chaplains who carried out their activities in areas of combat between the 14th and 16th years as participants in hostilities. If this can be done by changing the command from 24.12. In 16 years, I will be grateful for the number 658. If this is to be settled by law, ready, I think all the brothers who have gone through the pit of war will join in to regulate it at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u110	Thank you for the timely presentation. Indeed, the support of the chaplains to our military is very important. I now invite you to the floor of your esteemed colleague Kirsch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! What's happening now is blocking the tax slips, because this block is making the whole Ukrainian economy groan. Because this block converts the value added tax, the value added to the total turnover tax at 20 percent. When the Supreme Council canceled the tax write-off, we wrote in the law, and it went through the Supreme Council Hall, that only the Supreme Council could renew the tax freeze. And that's what was voted on. But in that version of the new Tax Code, a new version that was published, published in the Voice of Ukraine, was no longer meant for the Supreme Council to renew the blocking of tax returns, but for the Cabinet of Ministers. So what we've accepted has been changed on the way from the Supreme Council Hall to the Voice of Ukraine, and it turns out that it's already possible for Kabmin to reblock the tax slips, which is what he actually used! This was originally entrusted to Minfin. But Minfin’s experts, so - called, got confused and failed to develop the criteria for blocking tax slips. They were so confused that after that, the tax paid for the development of the criteria themselves. I want to publish their criteria. According to the criteria that come into force today, whether in a few days or so, risky operations are, for example, economic growth. I mean, if there's a lot of growth in the enterprise, it's already on the tax side, from the point of view of the taxpayers, it's a risky operation. In addition, it is risky that from the point of view of tax checks is risky. And that's what the document says! So risk is risk. And such tautology allows taxpayers to establish as risky any operation and any business! When the risk is determined by risk. Moreover, any new enterprise is a risk, any growing enterprise is a risk. If an accountant once worked for an enterprise that then went bankrupt, this accountant can no longer work for any company, for if an enterprise with a black mark takes a job, he will not be registered with a tax return. At the same time, anyone who wants to go around is gonna get away with it, but I don't want to talk about it from the Supreme Council. I mean, it's no use. Anyone who wants to go around is easy. But businesses are being destroyed by transforming value added tax into total turnover tax at 20 percent. The Supreme Council must do something to prevent this from happening, because it is death for our economy and death for all social benefits. When there are enterprises, there are no social ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u112	Please, the next national deputy to Valeria Zarztko. Please, Mrs. Valeria, have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u113	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow national MPs, I am sorry to mention this, but today the carbon economy of the Ukrainian industry is being destroyed. The question is very painful, because it's not just coal miners without wages, it's the fate of whole territories, cities and villages. Let me remind you that mines are almost always budgeting enterprises and are dependent on the economic situation and well-being of entire regions. Unfortunately, today we are buying coal abroad, anywhere in Russia, Poland, Kazakhstan, even in South Africa and the United States, but not in Ukraine. This government policy leads to bankruptcy and closure of mines. First of all, it's economically unreasonable because the cost of American coal is 13 percent higher than that of Ukrainian coal. And second of all, it's totally immoral in terms of the excessive state of the Ukrainian economy. The Radical Party team needs to make changes to the budget and allocate 1 billion dollars to the reconstruction and modernization of the active mines, which will save and increase the number of jobs, allocate 2.8 billion dollars to cover the debt paid to miners and to pay the wages for the period of modernization of mines. Let me remind you that only the wages owed to coal miners today amount to almost 108 million dollars. The crews of the company were forced to strike, starve, and demand the money they earned. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party team is fighting to stop the pressure on miners who are being challenged to so - called interrogations at the CBS, who are being intimidated and threatened. We demand that we stop the abuse of people, pay them their wages in full. The Radical Party team also offers its own comprehensive program for the conservation and development of the coal industry. This is to preserve and increase jobs, raise wages, and secure the country’s internal market in Ukrainian coal. Ukrainians have Ukrainian coal. Because it's saving currency in Ukraine, it's having a positive impact on the export-import balance, it's lowering prices for utility services that cost coal, and it's protecting against environmental catastrophes in the abandoned mines. We require miners to have a decent and timely wage in the coal industry, modernization and modernization. A strong industry is a strong economy, and a strong economy is a strong country, a strong country is a rich and happy Ukraine. This is the goal of the Easy Team. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u114	People’s deputy Krivenko is invited to attend. Victor, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u115	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today the Prime Minister has said that he supports the initiative of the deputies, where I am also co-author, the bill on the taking of economic control in Ukraine's Security Service. And we can thank him for that. But certainly he can't be thanked for that draft grant allocation for agro-producers, which he proposed to the 107th Order, and the government has made this decision, and where we now see that actually small farmers don't get any access to state support, but they get State support from large companies that need to think about how to support it, but not exactly when they just monopolize themselves by choosing different criteria that make it impossible for small, medium-sized farmers to access it. I spoke about this yesterday at a briefing with the head of the Animal Society, which includes over 5,000 enterprises. Next. Comrade Stotnik spoke of Mr. Zhdanov and about the reform of sports, and about the great achievements that I actually agree with that there are no. Bill 4857, initiated by my party colleague Paul Kishkar, many, many deputies from different factions also signed it, supported it, took funds from the Ministry of Sport and Youth and fed them to federations, as it all over the world corresponds to the International Olympic Committee and its rules. But, no, we personally want the minister to buy the oars, then what to do with our athletes, the skaters, where to ride, and because of that they don't give normal powers to the federations and thereby destroy Ukrainian sports in high achievements. And they don't do mass sports. My colleague Halasyuk spoke of a forest round. I absolutely support this position. And one warning. We voted criminalization in smuggling. But who's hiding this contraband? Can one believe that without a tax collector something can move to the other side of the border? Who's in charge of the tax office? Minister Daniluk is at war with taxes. She is directly subordinated to Prime Minister Groissman. Next. Absolutely right, said colleague Kirsch, sometimes it's nice to act at the end, that terrible manipulation with tax notes. I was approached by entrepreneurs from the Ivano-Frankiv region, from the Lviv region, who are simply artificially blocking the provision of tax receipts. And what you've said is that the text from what's been voted on has actually been changed, and I agree with that, and I would ask you to prepare a draft statement on crime, and I will sign you just as an expert. We're just ready to step up your position. I would like to say that the very important question that we raised that week is coal. Of course, you don’t have to buy import when you have your own. Lvivska Cave in Lviv. And if the Radical Party team were to join in, they would analyze this project, which would allow the creation of 3,000 jobs that would allow coal imports to be shut down, including from Russia. About nine million.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u116	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u117	For $2 billion, we drove coal from the Russian Federation last year, and we don't develop it. Although it's a private company and we want to give it all to the state. State aid is needed, but it is also necessary to help those who have similar projects that all have passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Please invite a national MP to the floor. Excuse me, please, Sporish. I'm sorry. I didn't look at that tape. Please, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u119	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I'd like to make my speech as a reference to "The Stolen. " What's up with "The Stolendoor"? Because I'm going to say, we have on Winnitz's road, which today is the Chrysopyl limestone, probably hasn't been repaired for 50 or 60 years. She did not repair herself and did not know what capital repairs were. And today I would very much like to have the Stork House put into the capital construction plan, and because that's actually the road of state importance. I understand that there are no roads in Ukraine today. I understand that the roads that were built last year are still there. And in general, we can see wonderfully that there are almost no roads in Ukraine. And so this is the road that goes to Odessa, this is the road that goes to Moldova. And I'd like very much to do everything I can to get it into the capital building plan. I'll tell you, back in Allied times, there were Steepsel and Tarapunka, who in their time, 60 years ago, criticized this section of the road. It's been 60 years, and there's no movement at all. And I think I'd really like it if, after all, we did, "Stolen" did everything it could to make this road. So, once again, I ask you to write down my statement with a reference to "The Stolentodore." I also wanted to say a few words, after all, that the question was raised, and the minister of our youth spoke, and my fellow national deputies, for our Olympics. Yes, of course, we know that the Paralympic assembly has done much better. We know that there's still little money available for our Olympics, and they don't have anywhere else to train. But once again, when the issue is addressed in our Supreme Council, they treat the main and secondary ones. These are the secondary issues: budget allocations for the Ministry of Youth and Sports, allocation of funds for the construction of sports facilities for our athletes -- unfortunately, there is not. And so I really wanted us not to divide into secondary laws and in the main ones, because they are all the main ones. And today, the more money we spend on our athletes, the more they don't go to Europe. Because we have examples of our athletes going out in Europe and showing the best results. And to conclude, I would like to say after yesterday's vote on Hope Savchenko. In fact, for me to be there today, we have united the whole country, because the national MPs are voting for Nadia Savchenko to deprive her of the immunity of the national MP and so on, and that is fair. And what she is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u120	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u121	And what she's doing in court today, defending herself again, is saying that I would do the same thing, and I'll say to the people of Ukraine: the people's deputies have united the entire room and voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Martovicki invites a national MP to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u123	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Western Donbas Shavers, who has delegated me to Parliament, today provide about 58 percent of the national carbon economy, make a significant contribution to the preservation of Ukraine's energy security and to the filling of budgets at all levels. But in order for the miner to work productively, we need to create conditions, first, for his safe work, and also for his comfortable life and rest, his family and all the inhabitants of the cities. But the government doesn't seem to be aware of all the responsibility for this, because the problem of water supply for mining cities, which I've already addressed from this rostrum to the Prime Minister of Ukraine a year ago, is not solved. The water supply of Pavlovgrad, Ternivka, Prvotravenska depends on the work of the State Enterprise of district subordination of Dnipro-West Donbas. During the crash of its main water supply and other facilities, which have now worked 80 percent of their resources, the city’s population is running out of water. Ternivka and Pritrovensk are especially affected. In order to prevent municipal collapses, for example, Ternówci had to spend a million and a half dollars in 2016 alone from the city budget to rebuild the water supply area and to involve local residential and utility workers in the elimination of an accident outside the city. At the same time, Ternivka lacks resources to repair and replace its own water supply networks, which are located in the city and are also 60 percent worn out. Local authorities are trying to solve the problem within budgetary capacity. But the local budget for the renovation and reconstruction of all the urban networks is critical. Especially after the budget transfer of numerous supplements, unsecured social benefits and subsidies to the population, maintenance of health facilities, education, and so on, by the State budget for 2018. My request to the government to decide on the financing of the capremont and the modernization of the Dnipro-West Donbas pipeline has been overlooked. There is no systemic solution to the problems, and so - called fire extinguishing is done by raising public tariffs and getting involved in the elimination of the local budget. I therefore demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine take personal control over the development, implementation and financing of a set of measures necessary to ensure reliable water supply in the mining region. Give a specific answer to my statement, which I am asking you to consider a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u124	Next performance by the People’s Deputy, Moseschuk. Please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u125	The village, my Ukrainian village, is calling me yesterday from Zoya Philippevna of the Orgitsky district of my native Poltavščina. She calls and cries and cries because she has to sell a cow, a cow that fed her family for more than 10 years. Why? And it's very simple because the purchase price for milk is 2.50. You've seen, dear Ukrainians, in a $2.50-a-liter milk store. If we have not seen, let us together ask the government: Why such injustice? Let us ask the government why the Eurocrats decided not to buy milk in Ukrainian peasants. Why is it said in the case of Eurocurrants that chemical milk is better? Why do compadres working in the government and in the parliamentary majority destroy Ukrainian animalry, Ukrainian milking? Because it is convenient to import palm oil that poisons Ukrainians? In this regard, our faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaška, insists on an urgent review in Parliament of Bill 3871 under our authority on the prohibition of the use of palm oil in the food industry. This is a requirement, a requirement from the government of compadres, and the government has talked a lot about animal subsidies, but no Ukrainian farmer and peasants have seen any donations and cows, sheep, or goats. In addition, we insist on the changes to the Constitution initiated by our Radical Party, Oleg Láška, who has to define farming as an agricultural arrangement on our Ukrainian land, otherwise. For otherwise there will be no Ukraine, there will be no village. We have to review the attitude towards the village. We have to encourage the construction of new agricultural processing enterprises, otherwise the village will die, otherwise there will be no work for Ukrainian farmers. In addition, a separate requirement to preserve the PTUs that train tractors is taken into account by the personnel of earth’s workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u126	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u127	Because if we don't, the village will die. And the village will die, and Ukraine will die. Our party, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka, will not allow that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u128	Please, the national deputy Paul Kishkar invites you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u129	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I'm going to comment on my colleagues. A few strokes of sport reform. Indeed, a revolutionary 4857 was registered a year and a half ago, which was supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which fully transferred the financing of high-performing sports to the Federation and allowed them to manage and develop their own kind of sport according to the Olympic Charter. Unfortunately, the desire to be a minister won, and he left behind the right to distribute, in fact, in the manual mode of funding the federations, to fund our gains in the future in the Olympics, including games. Unfortunately, the dissatisfaction of the Olympic Games has given rise to the fact that the current system of high-performing sports will have no success in the future and therefore we insist that Parliament consider the bill in the near future. My main talk today is about education, especially alternative education in high school, because my children are involved in the Waldorf education system. And in a strange way today, the Ministry of Education does not want to approve typical education programs from nine main directions of alternative education. These species, nine species of us work in Ukraine, have submitted relevant documents to the expert board of the Ministry of Education, and have passed this expert board. The next step should be the study at the College of Education in the Ministry of Education. The review of these documents in the college has turned into a dirty campaign of Agitation by Mrs. Fidanian, who heads the education department in Kiev, and a certain unknown to me Gorbachev Sergia, who is the only director in Kiev of one of the secondary schools, defines a state-wide policy in the field of alternative education in secondary school. It's absolutely absurd, because the basis of the new Ukrainian school is the Canadian model of the Waldorf School. So the Ministry of Education is proud and we thank them for supporting the new Ukrainian school as a model based on the Waldorf School, but it doesn't want to approve a typical education program for the Waldorf School, which has been in existence for 14 years and has produced the highest-quality elite graduates of schools. Because their eliteness is confirmed by the fact that they enter Kiev-Mogilanka, Karpenka-Karogo, the University of Shevchenka and have the highest wages since the end of these universities. Why do you have to do that again?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u130	15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u131	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's a back-to-back education system in high school. Give a normal job to both a new Ukrainian school and an alternative school. We don't have to go out with kids with square heads, we have different kids, we have different kinds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u132	Thank you for your performance. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenach is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u133	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vice Speaker! Yesterday, we saw another part of the Ukrainian Security Service, with even more questions than answers. Because it was not clear how the entire vehicles with the arsenal of military weapons were moving in Ukraine. In the context of this, I want to mention today's tragic date. Just a year ago, there was a tragedy in the city of Balakleya in the Kharkiv region, resulting in more than 340 homes being damaged by military shells and resulting in the death of two civilians. Several thousand people were injured. This has caused more than 300 million dollars for people and business. But I do have a few questions. A year ago, all military leadership: the military prosecutor, the Attorney General, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service claimed that there were obvious signs of a diversion that could have caused such explosions. But, fellow believers, I point out that after a year of this tragedy, not just any man is not, no man has been charged. Moreover, the head of the military, who was responsible for storing these munitions, Vladimir Sklar, more importantly, went up to Kiev. Also, dear colleagues, you know that, unfortunately, the same tragedy has taken place this year. Thank God, no one was affected by the civilian population in Kalinovka in Winnitzkin. And so did people. Similarly, several hundred million dollars flew into the air. It is estimated that the explosions at these two military warehouses are estimated at more than a billion dollars. And so far no one has been called to account. Moreover, the journalists who conducted the investigation, the man at the vineyards, Igor Maležik, who was the leader of this military unit, had previously been involved in a criminal conduct involving, listen: "Figurative purchase of fire-fighting equipment for 200,000 dollars." I think Ukrainians, taxpayers, have a right to know. The self-help faction urges the Defense Minister, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service at the next "hour of government" to report, what is really going on with the investigation of these crimes? Who are attracted, and when, if not, will he be called to account? Moreover, my fellow Members, I would like to point out that, together with you, the country's budget, which was voted last year, was more than 140 million dollars for the disposal and storage of ammunition. As a result of the tragedy in the Balkans this year, the MPs voted for the disposal, organization and storage of more than half a billion dollars. In total, about a billion dollars have already been allocated for this authority over the current year. I think that taxpayers within the limits stipulated by the law certainly have the right to hear how tax payers spend their expenses and, most importantly, whether people in Ukraine feel at ease where there are military warehouses and, above all, in the Balkan region of Kharkiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenko will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u135	Good afternoon, Ukraine. This week, again, our active young people from Dniper came to Kiev, the people who are struggling with the environmental disaster that this multimillionaire city is facing, the Ahmedov oligarch, who, despite all the commitments he made during the privatisation of the Transnistrian thermal power plant, is ignoring them. Today, this city is immersed in discards, it's one of the oldest, most morally and physically outdated power stations that was purchased in the 12th year, in Yanukovic times, without any competitors by this oligarch. And then the government of Azarov, who was the head of the Party of the Regions, prescribed very loyal requirements for Ahmutov: reducing the emissions of sulfur oxides, nitrogen and particulate matter, and installing devices for automatic control of emissions. But nothing's been done yet, even though we're all over the country through Rotterdam Plus, extremely large sums of money for this oligarch. By January 1, this year, discards would have been reduced 10 times. It didn't happen. And our activists are coming to Kiev, young people from Dniper, Irina Chernish, Artem Romanyukow, people who are not afraid to go against the system, against this oligarch. You can only imagine that 20 million tons of waste is not being disposed of in the city. And their plan is just to take another 7-8 years and put it all behind us. This is all done for one purpose: simply not to fulfill your obligations. With one filter costing like a few rooms in the London apartment of Ahmtova, which, you know, by all ratings in all international publications is the world’s most expensive and costing over $200 million. You know, it's not the only news of an oligarch who lived well both in the days of Kuchma, and in the days of Yushchenka, and in the days of Yanukovich, and now, in the days of Dustenka. Another worrisome call is the forced buyout of Austali's shares. They're robots, simple people who have small bags, they're now forced to sell 56 shares for one thing. So all of Austal was valued at $90 million. This, again, is like three rooms in Ahmtova's apartment, costing the pearl of the Ukrainian metallurgy "Austall", one of the largest enterprises that generates huge profits for this oligarch. So the combination was estimated to be 57 times cheaper than the cost of building it from scratch. You can imagine cynicism trying to get into the pockets of every simple person who bought shares in this company. And this is done despite the fact that, again, the whole country looks like it's going through Rotterdam Plus to keep getting revenue. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u136	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u137	So, dear Ukrainians, I ask you very much, you have to understand that all of Ukrainian politics is pervaded by these oligarchic corruption interests. We have to change the Elections Act, create an anti-corruption court, and bring to justice those who try to build on the basis of ordinary Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u138	Thank you. Please give the next speech by the national deputy of Lozov. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u139	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The Nobel Prize laureate in literature, Hermann Hesse, makes it very clear that during the Middle Ages, travelers knew that the plague of death had come. They knew that when they heard the roaring roar of cows, there was no one to milk a cow, cows were fearfully reviving, and everyone from far away, hearing this terrible roar, knew that death had come to this village or to this city. Because a cow can't do without a man, and a man can't do without a cow. A man and a cow is like a lamb and a lamb when it comes to philosophical aspects. And for the Ukrainians, the cow is no less a sacred animal. If I was doing my own instagram on the page, I asked people: where is the cow sacred animal, in Ukraine or in India? Sixty percent of the people told me that they were in Ukraine. Because in our country, in our sacred Ukrainian land, which this authority wants to sell in an ungodly way, a cow is a symbol of wealth, a cow is the greatest human friend, a cow is what saves Ukrainians often. But because of the foolish, unprincipled activity of active power for the sake of the aliens who see our country as an accessory to a raw, raw colony that happens: lead cows to slaughter. A man loves a cow that lives in its barn and cannot sell milk and leads a cow to slaughter. And the cow feels it, the cow cries, she wants to be human friend, she wants to help. What should a poor peasant do if there is no normal purchase price for milk? And many peasants can't sell milk at all. Note that Switzerland, where people live as in a paradise on earth, as in God’s armpit, is not a member of the EU to preserve its cows. And we're going to have cows like dinosaurs in museums soon, because totally stupid government activity will lead to that. Our policy of the Radical Party is to set the purchase price for milk at least six dollars. And Lashko is going to be President, and 10 bracelets is going to be the purchase price for milk. Our policy is to cancel VAT on farms that produce milk. Our policy is, as my colleague Mosiyczuk said, to ban palm oil. Our policy is to grant donations to cows. In Italy a thousand euros a year are given for each cow farmer. In Ukraine, at least 10,000 dollars a year, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u140	I was just beginning to worry that the performances were coming to an end, and there was nothing to be said about the cow. Thank God our balance has now been restored. Thank you for the talk. I know I don't have a right, but I'm a living person too, and I have a right to emotion. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm asking you not to interrupt the session. Please don't leave it as if the aftertaste after your speech about the cow is negative. Let's keep it positive. Please, Mr. Musi, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u141	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Red City, 124 constituency, political party People's Control. Of course, speaking to the people's deputies, and more than yesterday, it's very difficult for me to stay in the hall and forget that I'm a doctor for education and a professional. I am referring to the mental health of many, including my colleagues. And I think it needs, probably, some kind of legislative definition that when officials are elected to the public service with mandatory passage, a psychiatrist's manual, they also need to introduce this rule to the national MPs. So that all the actors don't try to destroy either half of Kiev, or half of Parliament, or tell us here all the unsavory stories that are fun for everyone. And it's very sad for the Ukrainian people, but it's too bad. I want to draw the attention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who has repeatedly stated here to us national MPs during an hour of answers to questions from the national MPs about what he guarantees, he is confident that there is no corruption in the Ministry of Health, because there, you see, there is such an American who is not a corrupter. In fact, all of this does not correspond completely to reality. That's why I'm asking and I'm asking you to consider my speech as a deputy in support of what was being investigated by a public organization and a journalist known to everyone, Bocala, who turned to the Prime Minister of Ukraine two days ago about the corruption of the deputy ministers of the government. Ulyana Suprun, Minister of Health, Mr. Kovtonyuk It turns out that this official decided something that the World Bank's $200 million is his own pocket, and he's been lobbying, and he's been obstructing a transparent competition for the appointment of a supervisor who's going to be controlling and distributing, and he's actually managing for the next three years these 200 million dollars that he's lending as a loan, the World Bank to us with you, to Ukraine. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to immediately conduct a service investigation into the activities of this Deputy Minister of Covtonjuk, to remove him from his post as Deputy Minister and to take adequate roofing measures. The minister of health, his respective deputies, and their corrupt activities. You remember the service investigation by the deputy of the Perez, who was at Kwitashvili. How Did It End? By crossing him to Copenhagen. So there will be no escape of the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u142	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u143	Kovtonyuków, Linchevsky and everything else that the Committee on Health has repeatedly called attention to, ask the Prime Minister to take immediate action. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u144	Please give the next speech, the People’s Deputy Miroshnichenko is invited to take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u145	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I want to inform you, April 2nd, World Autism Day. You know that in many countries and, in particular, in Ukraine, up to hundreds of thousands of families have faced this problem, and unfortunately, very often they have been left alone. Very often people do not know what they should do if such a child is born in their family. Very often our medicine, our education is not ready to help these people. A major problem for adult autistics: no work, no care, no support. That's why, almost a year ago, as well as experts, on the one hand, parents, national deputies, by the way, there is Dennis Silantiev, who is also doing a lot, including for children involved in the problem of autism, united and created a national platform called Ukraine Friendly to Autism. And within the scope of this problem, we are trying to unite efforts, on the one hand, by state, executive bodies, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, because unfortunately there is no horizontal coordination between them. And on the other hand, the practitioners who deal with people like that every day. And this communication platform allows us not only to discuss problems, but also to disseminate information, involve new people, and make certain projects that each ministry can then implement. And we're like national MPs, making changes to legislation, and corresponding ministries. At the same time, though, I would like to turn to my parents and call for unity, since it is very difficult for everyone alone to deal with this problem. Look for support from each other. I want to contact the local authorities. Establish centers and support such people. I want to talk to all the citizens, the whole community. Each family may face such a problem. Do not ignore or discriminate against such people, support, and deal with understanding. Because from the way we treat such persons, the elderly, the disabled, there's an indication of how civilized we are, how much we have the right to be called a European country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u146	Thank you for a very timely presentation, and we must agree that we have yet to work to make society more tolerant of people with special needs. I now give the floor to the People's Deputy of Chizmar. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. From the rostrum in four years, from this rostrum in four years, we have often heard speeches by fellow MPs about significant corruption in power, crimes committed in the country. Only our faction has raised such sharp questions as, say, what did we do to get the money out of our budget, from the country's economy? Like the offshore scandals of Panama Papers, where the first figures of our tap were involved. We remember that we've been raising questions here and Rotterdam Plus where people are making unnecessary payments for so-called coal shipments from Europe that have virtually never been made. We remember the latest events with the RAB tariff, when, today, 12 years in advance, people are putting billions of dollars into their utility bills that they're going to pay to those owners who, long ago since corrupt privatization, bought their energy capacities and today, secondly, they want to compensate for those costs at the expense of ordinary citizens. The faction and I have raised questions about the 4G frequencies that were sold today for no price, when all other countries are making and closing those urgent needs of citizens who are in the country. We raised questions about the theft of the Ministry of Defense. We raised the issue of German hoods, from which Ukrainian gas is reportedly delivered to the population, although more than half of the Ukrainian gas itself is consumed in Ukrainian pipes. We remember that we are raising questions about the illegal refinancing of funds that were found in the cash market a few days later and affected the level of inflation by providing for our citizens. We remember that we have repeatedly raised the issue of corruption in the banking system, especially in Private Bank. But what is the result? None. Why? Because as of today, Parliament itself has deprived itself of the constitutional capacity to exercise institutional control over the authorities, without having adopted for four years, and I would say 25 years, the Law on Temporary Commissions. How did the speech of the Potters end in this room? I went out on purpose, and I didn’t even want to listen to her. Why? Because I knew it would be an abuse of Parliament, where she would say what she wanted, and she wasn't even afraid of the hall, because after her speech we couldn't create a temporary commission of inquiry, expose all the facts, call officials to Parliament, not go to law enforcement and ask for admission to prove her position. They were supposed to be here reporting and giving us an explanation. And then Gonnaarev would be pale here, and today she'd be answering in the D.A.'s office. What is the result of our questions? Zero. How many questions did we ask? What real answers. Maximum write-offs. That is why I call on this House. Every time we approve the agenda for a week and for a session, I see if there's a law on the list. I won't. And very often I refuse to vote for the agenda, even though there are positive laws. Not because I'm against it, but because I don't see the laws that create institutional capacity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u148	15 seconds. 15 seconds, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u149	Yeah, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u150	15 minutes. One second, more faithful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u151	The Radical Party faction passed the law, and it is registered in the Supreme Council. Yes, we're not in the coalition, and we can't influence the agenda, but I call on all conscious members of the coalition: if you want to be Parliamentary, and this body was strong and powerful, this law has to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u152	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u153	Dear citizens of Ukraine, on my way out to the rostrum, I want to change the subject of my speech, at least in the beginning. What does it have to do with anything? As I walked through the towers of the Supreme Council, I saw a group of children from the 315th school in Kiev, who had come for a tour, standing near the site of the National Flag, which was introduced to the Assembly Hall of the Supreme Council on 24 August. Now these kids came here to look at all these things, these are children who have a great hope of living, working in Ukraine and being worthy of their state. In the hands of one of them was our schedule of plenary meetings. I've been paying attention to that. I said, "And you. Why would you do that?" And he says, "And we want to hear what rights you're going to be looking at." And here the rights were very simple for today. A change in the size of scholarships for children, yes, there's a bachelor -- 2,000, there's 2,000 for others. And the second question was that it was to strengthen the social protection of the rights and interests of children deprived of parental care. From week to week, from month to month, we abuse ourselves, we don't respect ourselves. These two questions are being referred to each week, and no one listens to them. Please tell me, will someone believe after that in that country that there is a future for children? I'm not a political thinker, let's say the Radical Party, but their workplace program, creating conditions for young people who will live and work here, is right. And you need them, and you need them, and then you need to support them. [[Applause]] And you don't have to worry that these are political opponents, because this is where the interests of Ukraine are. A person who wants to live and work in Ukraine must be united, regardless of his religious beliefs, party affiliation. On Fridays, however, we ask painful questions, Wednesday we ask questions from our fellow MP, Pisarenko, about youth and sports, knowing that there is no one in the hall, and they will not be considered. And this is where the trouble comes from in that order of the day. We've been asking for months? The year of the Opposition Block requires that you submit to the 5642 Chamber a report on the activity of the Acting Minister of Health. Bring him in here, let him know. Anyone wants to vote independently. If anyone wants it, support it. But her absence, this work leads to what? Listen, good people, the Cabinet of Ministers' determination has led to what? We now have blood, blood products abroad with a special permit for one of the structures. It's when the war goes on and the blood is gone. Today, we are discussing the issue of increasing small, medium, and large doses illegally, with illicit drug circulation: heroin, amphetamine, morphine, cannabis. The Ministry gives 50 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u154	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u155	Today, the Ministry's order prohibits the use of contrast tools for MRI diagnostics. How can oncology be made available now? All of this leads to actions where people are going to clean up the area where people are going to die. We're demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u156	Thank you. Next performance by the national deputy Silantiev. I'm going to continue our meeting for 10 minutes. And we have literally 4-5 shows left, and we're going to finish. Please, Mr. Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u157	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to dedicate my speech to the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, namely, about the mess, about the abuse, about the outright lawlessness committed by the first deputy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Igor Gozul. Imagine, this person is one of the leaders of a central authority that allocates government funds, and he heads the public organization that receives these funds and then spends them. This conflict of interest has led to 68 percent of the 100 percent budget spent on Olympic sports, 68 percent on light and heavy athletics, and all that remains to be spent on other Olympic sports, and not one dozen! Let's move on. Igor Hotzul, abusing the position of duty, and I have this documentary confirmation, takes the funds, has already been allocated from one sport and gives it to a lightweight athlete. In addition, he takes the money out of the Olympics, the olympics of the Olympic Games. And despite the fact that funding for easy athletics increases every year, athletes don't see it, they don't get it. I have a question. Igor Hotzul, where do you go with the money you take from sports and give away other sports, the lightweight athlete, the president of the Federation of which you are? And it's not just me, it's also in the accounting room, which has done a job analysis, and they have a lot of questions about budget spending by the Ministry. Next. As for the purchases and tenders that are being made in the Ministry. The company that's always winning tenders at the Ministry, Viva Athletics, is headed by Igor Gozula Dmitry Gotzul, the first deputy minister of youth and sports. Nevertheless, despite the harsh violation of the technical terms of the tenders. And it is painful that has angered a large society today, a large part of society. At the last World Championship in England, our lightweights came out in costumes with no identifying marks. I mean, you know, the Gypsies came out with a noisy crowd. And that's because Igor Gotzul, the last person to trade for his priorities, for his dividends, forgot to tell the company to make a flag on a suit to. The flag to make her coat of arms to mark the state. This must be what a cynical and greedy person should be to ignore Ukrainian symbols. I want my speech to be like an address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From the Supreme Council to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the NAM, to take the necessary measures and to give a legal assessment of these actions and therefore of the waywardness that takes place in the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. I want to state that the Radical Party faction will not allow officials from the Ministry or any other officials to charge their pockets at the expense of looting Ukrainian athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u158	I'm asking the secretariat to make the speech as a parliamentary address. And I invite you to the word Sergio Soboljeva, which is given by Babak, Oleni Babak. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u159	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. Dear Ukrainians, today there is an enormous social demand from all of our societies to unite the Ukrainian nation, to unite around ideas, projects, initiatives that are absolutely understandable to every Ukrainian and absolutely correct. And such ideas, such as those that would unite our entire Ukrainian nation, are certainly Ukraine’s prosperity, Ukraine’s green country. Unfortunately, in Parliament we are totally, absolutely not paying attention to making our country a green country, a country of prosperity. While the European Union has been implementing the so-called closed-cycle economy for the second year in a row, an economy that is developing, which is based on the principles of the development of the earth's ecology for the future, for our children. Ukraine, unfortunately, paid $50 million last year to introduce a macular into Ukraine. Can you imagine? We just bought the farm for dollars to get here. We're also importing 20 percent of the glass. Fifty percent of the secondary plastic processing lines are unladen. And at the same time, 94 percent of our household waste is exported to the polygons, 94 percent, only 6 percent of the total waste that our country generates, unfortunately, but that's the civilizational aspect, they're being processed. Today, there is a legislative initiative in Parliament that is the Packing and Waste of Packing Act, which is signed and submitted by members of virtually all political powers, and 26 national deputies have signed it. It's a law that would actually allow 30 percent of the waste that is being generated today to be processed, not garbage dumps. But today it is blocked, unfortunately, in Parliament. My friends, I urge you, all of our political forces, the Self-Help Union, urge us all to unite around the idea of prosperity and green country so that we can start the process that volunteers at all levels today, in schools or in environmental schools, and just in separate cities start doing it on our own. Let's give a tool, a tool of the extended responsibility of the manufacturer to make what today is volunteer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u160	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u161	became our practice and practice throughout Ukraine. Let's adopt this law and really start building a country of Ukraine with a green country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u162	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Igor Lucenko. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. We finally found out who blocked the process of exchanging Ukrainian prisoners. In the videos, there's a statement by Hope Savchenko that they're referring to the occupation administration of DNR, and they're not giving anyone away right now so that they don't play any sports with Medvedchuku. Do you all understand who just blocked the prisoner exchange process? The captives are not given Ukraine because Medvedchuk has made demands on us! Officially appointed by the President, the person behind whom the chauffeur of colossal crimes begins with Stus and ends today continues to harm Ukraine for the approval of Dusty. And I'm going to remind you of the success of this wonderful middleman who's been using this status for years. First. There's a great channel for smuggling illegal oil products with Russia through West Pass. There is a decision, by the way, by the Privatization Commission, that there is a colossal corruption scheme. Many of my colleagues have tried to protest everything at their own time, but everything is blocked by the President's Administration, which controls the appropriate court, in which the corruption ends of this scheme are established. The other one. A successful network for the sale of this contraband contravention through the GLUSCO network is now growing across Ukraine, controlled by people close to Medvedchuk. Third. The great success of Medvedchuk is the coal supply schemes through Russia with the ORDLO. Finally, fourth. Today, there's information that the Medvedchuk structures that are approaching are entering the largest Ukrainian television channels. Why? To manipulate the country and continue the information destruction of our nation. This is the role of Mediator Medvedchuk. But I want to get out of the high hall and yell at Bank. Hey, Mr. Dusty! Maybe we've had enough of these middlemen blocking our prisoner exchange, and they're robbing our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u164	Colleagues, I'm just gonna update the record right now, so we can figure out who else is on this list, and we're gonna take a risk. Please, now, National Deputy Linko, then National Deputy Shipko, then National Deputy Koseljeva. And have they all gone out on the list of those who wish? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's he like? And let's draw up a list of those who want to. And please, I'm asking you to give the floor to the national MP Link.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u165	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! During the intersessional sessions, I now attend a lot of universities, universities all over Ukraine, where I communicate with young people and encourage them to take a more active part in Ukraine's social and political life because it is up to them to the future of Ukraine. So when I was talking to the students, on Monday, I was in the hometown of Kropiwnitsky, at the Central Ukrainian University of Technology. Most of the questions asked by students who have just given in or just finished their studies are: What should we do next? They're getting an education, today they're young, very active, let's say they're interested in new knowledge, they're getting a pretty high-quality education in different areas. But the most important problem is where to implement it. The problem with today’s Ukrainian youth is that employers who want to see experienced workers with experience and young students who have graduated from college have nowhere to go. Nor can he go to politics, power, or private sector, business. That is why we have proposed such a pilot project, an internship program for young people in local government and government, a quota for young people there to gain experience so that young people can acquire knowledge and practice. But the same is true at the state level, and this should be done by the Ministry of Social Policy, to introduce quotas for young people to work in the private sector, in the business sector. So that we don't lose experienced people going abroad, so that we can get them a normal job and pay. Those wages are low today, and those opponents who tell us that 5,000 dollars is a very large minimum wage, it's catastrophically low wages. And the students aren't ready to go to work for that kind of pay. They will certainly go to Poland for 500 euros. They will certainly go abroad, where the wages are higher. And I want some examples of our talented Ukrainians who have gone abroad. Semen Kruglijak of Alexandria in Kirovograd district, who invented the extraction of electricity from the air, was actually taken away by 10 of the best schools in education, fought for him to go to them, and he moved to Harvard. He didn't get any support from the state. Anton Zibko of the city of Golovanowski, also in the Kirovograd region, who won the World Information Olympics in Tehran, did not find support in Ukraine and went abroad. That's why Oleg Lalska's Radical Party calls for the approval of a program to support Ukrainian talented young people, to create conditions here for young people to work, and to do so, we need to establish a normal job for industrial parks, a town of IT, where young people are going to work more actively today. So that these spheres will raise our economy and our Ukrainian youth can stay here in Ukraine, develop and work for the Ukrainian state, not go abroad, look for their future, and develop their economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Shipko. Mr. Andrey, we'd like to invite you in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u167	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency of the city of Nicopol, the city of Pochrov, and the region of Nicopol. Dear national MPs, dear voters, every day we Ukrainians become fewer, 422 people a day, at just this rate of decline in the population of Ukraine. We're getting smaller because Ukrainians are dying 10-15 years before Europeans, we're getting smaller because young families don't dare to have a second or third child, we're getting smaller because young people, the future of our country, are looking for fate abroad. The problem of migration, it's known around the world, Ukraine goes to Poland, Poles go to Germany, Germans go to England, but every year there are about 7,000 medical workers from Ukraine. And our neighbour countries have already simplified employment for our health workers. And doctors who have failed in medical reform, in all these claims, just go. Think about it. Today we lack 42,000 doctors and 100,000 nurses. Soon our patients will have to travel abroad to get advice from a doctor, a Ukrainian doctor. Who will come to us? Who's coming to pay us $150? According to a survey of the state of State, more than 6.5 million Ukrainian families in the past year were denied the most needed food. More than 600,000 Ukrainian families do not have sufficient funds even for food. Sixty percent of Ukrainian families are unable to pay housing services on their own and have to apply for subsidies. When the people are poorer and the gas is growing tenfold. The leadership of the State must recognize that man, his life, and his health are the highest value of the State, which is the third article of the Constitution of our country. Because without a Ukrainian citizen, it won't happen. And that's why our group requires, first of all, we need to get the economy out of our knees, and I agree with my colleagues in the Radical Party. We worked with big businesses, developed Bill 8145, which will give the economy a new breath. The second is enough to play med reform. There is Bill 4981 to introduce insurance medicine. A third is the support and protection of the family, a unique task. Bill 6063, which collected fifty thousand signatures, and we handed it over to the President-in-Charge from the rights of the child, should be implemented immediately. Please consider my address to the Head of the Supreme Council for an immediate vote in Parliament for the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u168	Thank you. The position is clear. Colleagues, I continued to work in Parliament until 14:10. So now for the last performance, we will balance the masculine presence today in the hall by our esteemed colleague, Kocheljeva. I'm asking you to come forward. And we'll close the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u169	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! Colleagues national MPs! From this high rostrum, I want to address the government with a demand to review inconsistent social policies. I point out to you that worldwide, the very level of welfare of citizens is the most important indicator of the effectiveness of state social policy. After all, it is the welfare of the citizens that characterizes the welfare of the population with the necessary material and spiritual benefits. Instead, the Ukrainian authorities are far from the needs of the Ukrainians. The purchasing power of citizens is gradually being consumed by inflation, a decline in production and unemployment, and the increasing level of poverty of Ukrainians leads to forced migration for young people from Ukraine. In Ukraine, there is a catastrophic situation in the area of youth unemployment, in most cases graduates of vocational and higher education institutions are unable to find an affordable job and a decent salary, forced not to work for specialty, but to survive at the poverty line. At the same time, I would like to remind you that article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides for the right of every Ukrainian citizen to housing, while citizens who need social protection are granted housing for free of charge or for affordable pay. Unfortunately, however, the state does not take sufficient measures to provide housing for Ukrainian citizens, especially young ones. For example, the government failed to achieve the expected results as a result of the State Programme for Youth Housing in 2013-17. Think about it, the program was designed to provide 17,000 young families, and really only 8 percent of them were given housing, and this is the official report of the Court of Auditors. In addition, under the conditions of suspending the operation of the Single National Register of Citizens requiring improvement in living conditions and the refusal of statistical observations at present, it is not possible to establish the actual number of persons in the home account. In view of the above, I appeal to the government to ensure that the registered register works. And also to entrust the Ukrainian State Statistics Service with restoring these observations and controlling the availability of housing for young people. In addition, I call for support for the bill introduced by the People’s Dept. of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, which aims to restore the budget programme for the granting of long-term government loans to young families and single young citizens for the construction, reconstruction and acquisition of housing. The adoption of this bill will restore the financing of housing programmes from the State Budget General Fund and allow higher living standards for internally displaced persons, including young people and participants in the ATO. Oleg Láška's Radical Party faction team is actively working to ensure that the constitutional rights of every Ukrainian citizen to a decent standard of living and housing are properly realized and for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-23-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the secretariat of the Supreme Council and remind you that the national deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Musei and Mr. Bondar, who spoke today in our section of the speeches, have requested that their speeches be properly formulated as a reference to the Cabinet of Ministers and other structures of power. I want to thank my colleagues for two extremely not simple but fruitful sessions. I'd like to remind you, dear colleagues, that next week, the national MPs are working with the voters, it's a wonderful time. It's a wonderful time to visit your districts, cities, villages. Yes. See what happens to Ukrainian cows and other animals living in a Ukrainian village. Well, seriously, I also want to remind you that the last week is left to fill out electronic declarations, so that no one in your colleagues will forget to submit them in time. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 3, at 10 a.m. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today I declare closed. Thank you all. Thank you, colleagues. Good week.
