ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. So we can register? People's deputies please take part in the registration. Please register. [[10:04:20]] 333 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today's birthday to the National Deputies, Oleg Stepanovich Barney. Hello, Oleg. [[Applause]] Happy birthday, buddy! Vitalia Andryovich Korczyk Welcome! [[Applause]] And Igor Volodymyrovich Popov. Mr. Igor, welcome! Colleagues, April 29, 1918, this day 100 years ago the Central Council proclaimed the Constitution of the Ukrainian People’s Republic. In the days leading up to this momentous date, we begin the scientific and artistic project "From the Constitution to the Constitution" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, while registering, Ukrainian national deputies received a facsimile copy of the unique edition of the U.N.R. Constitution of a century ago. To date, only a few authentic copies of the U.N.R. Constitution have been preserved. One of these can be seen in the Supreme Council's premises in the thematic exhibition next to other historical artifacts and works of art. At the opening of the plenary session today at 12 p.m., I invite the people's deputies to take part in the opening and to see an exhibition in the second floor of Parliament. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that on April 18, UNESCO decided to celebrate the International Day of Monuments and Places. In Ukraine the issue of preservation of Ukrainian cultural heritage is very acute. And there is also a great problem with the destruction of those monuments in occupied areas. Just one example. The Russian occupation in the form of restoration systematically destroys the world - famous Han Palace in Bahchisarai. And today, at 3 p.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on "The State, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage in Ukraine." I invite all national deputies to join the important debate that will take place today at three o'clock in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, colleagues, I remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to speak from the National MPs. And so I'm asking everyone who wants to participate in the discussion to make a recording of the performances by the national MPs. So, please record, please log in. Vadim Viktorovich is invited to the floor
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to talk to you about that. For almost two years now, Governor Constantine Brill has been robbing the Zaporez region. He preys on his own insolence, cynicism, and stupidity. In recent times the Zaporez region has been plagued by a series of corruption scandals, where Constantine Brill is a direct participant and figure. Literally eight criminal cases today, where Constantine Brill is either a witness or a direct participant. And that's my question. His corrupt tentacles refer to all areas of life in Zaporozhye region, land relations, the Holdgeokadastr. To date, only 10 percent of ATO soldiers have received land. If this is going to continue at this rate, it's probably 10-20 years to close all positions. The six heads of the district governments have already been detained on bribes made by corruption protocols. And one Yakimivsky, I'm told, or Dniprovsky, there's about $180,000 worth of bribes in there, and the guy's still working. A serious medical problem. A serious construction problem. To date, some 400 million dollars have not been used from budgets of different levels. What does that mean? This means unbuilt roads, unbuilt kindergartens, which constitute serious social tensions. And I have a question. I won't count all his exploits. I have a serious question for those who care about the human resources policy of the country, a personnel policy that decides on the appointment of officials of this high level. Can't you hear? Do the security services of Ukraine, the law enforcement agencies, not tell you about the crime that is being committed in the Zaporozhye region? Well, there's probably no scandal today where Constantine Brill wouldn't be a direct participant. I'll bring you that fact. The New York horse factory, 6,000 acres [6,000 ha] of land, was trying to give to the disabled, with only two people counting. And Brill was a direct participant in this raid because he actually signed an order that simplified this situation, and they could get this land. Only by interfering with law enforcement authorities has the situation been reversed. And I have this personal question for those who care about human resources policy. When's this shit getting out of Zaporez? How many more people can breathe with it in one air?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Nechayev gives the word for Villukul. Please. Please turn on Vilukulu's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u4	Dear people of Ukraine! It was only a week after the celebration of the Day of the Space and Missiles, and yesterday it was known that the Kyiv Politec had abolished the faculty of experts in the field, the Faculty of Aviation and Space Systems. After the media scandal, the U.S. government was already saying there was going to be some kind of reorganization, but it doesn't really change that. This is another episode in the process of destroying the aviation and missile space industry, which has almost been destroyed in four years. We used to launch rockets into space, and now we're even buying trams in Poland. No aircraft has been built since 2016. The day before, I met with the employees and veterans of the South and the South. The Southman was the flag of the world's missile building, and now a three-day working week, young and unique professionals are getting laid off, by the way, a large number of people are going abroad. Recent developments speak only of one thing: today’s authorities are deliberately destroying the country’s high technology and destroying the scientific and technological potential of our country. And in view of the results of antihuman experiments in education and medicine, it purposefully destroys the future of our country. Let the authorities come out and tell people honestly why they're preparing Ukraine for the fate of an agrarian state with a small number of minimally educated people who are beggars. For the past three years, my drafts have been written in Parliament, seven of which we have developed with experts and employees of these enterprises. Our laws aim to bring the sector back to life, starting with the direct state funding of missile and space development projects, the repayment by the state of the budget of the percentage of international loans to support science and vocational schools to train professionals and young scientists. I demand immediate consideration of these bills, or we will eventually lose the missile-space branch and even the potential to restore it. Young people should see that the state actually develops high technologies, sees the future in its state, and only then in the state itself is there a future. I demand the support of the space and rocket industry, industry and investment in high technology and science. I believe in our country, and we will do everything we can to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Melniczuk gives the floor to Antonisztak, please. And so is Davidenko, which gives us six minutes to perform. Andrew, Mr. Andrew, you have six minutes to perform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainian people, good day, dear fellow parliamentarians! We have the honor of a veteran of the battalion of General Kulczycke's name, the special regiment of General Kulczyck's battle battalion, to contact you. On June 30, 2017, a citizen of Ukraine, Sergeant of the National Guard, was detained at the airport of Bologna, Italy. According to the prosecution's order at the Pavia court, which investigates a criminal case for charges of colluding with other unidentified persons as part of an irregular military group on 24 May 14th year at the top of Mount Karachoon's death by Italian citizen Andrea Rockkelly. In the spring of 2014, a Ukrainian citizen, Vitaly Markov, volunteered to join the ranks of the National Guard of Ukraine as part of a battalion of operational assignments, now a battalion of General Kulczycke’s name, and opposed armed separatist gangs in the vicinity of the city of Slovenia’s Donetsk region. Vitaly Markov signed a contract with the National Guard of Ukraine and sworn allegiance to the Ukrainian people. On May 25, 2014, two journalists died in the village of Andriyevka of the Slavonia region of the Donetsk region during a minor shooting: Italian citizen Andrea Rockkelli and Russian citizen Andri Mironov. According to the investigation, photojournalists Andrea Rockkelli and William Roglon, accompanied by translators Andria Mironov, arrived in Ukraine without proper border crossings and failed to form an accreditation to the Ukrainian Security Service to carry out professional journalism activities in the counterterrorism area. In the railway area near the village of Andriyuk, they arrived on a rented Daewoo Nexia car for the purpose of photographing the area that had been shelled the previous day. According to his imagination, Mark’s witness was involved in a mortar shot that led to the death of Rockkill. As of May 2014, there were no mortars in the Ukrainian National Guard units stationed in the Slavyansk region. The Ukrainian National Guard's official help confirms that the units of the Ukrainian National Guard's operational assignment from 20.03 to 04.08 2014 were equipped exclusively with firearms: machine guns and machine guns, artillery weapons, including mortars, on their balance sheet. This fact excludes the possibility that Mark could have killed Rockell. A letter was sent to the competent authorities of Italy from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine about the willingness to contribute fully to the investigation of the criminal conduct of Markov and the death of Rockelli, and a joint examination of the area and interrogations of witnesses identified by the suspects was necessary with the Italian investigation authorities. Unfortunately, the Italian investigating authorities ignored the offer of Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to cooperate in the investigation. For the purpose of examining the scene, questioning witnesses, and obtaining official documents to support the indiscretion of Markov’s accusation, Ukraine, his lawyer, Raffaelli Della Valle, visited him. During the investigation that lasted more than three years, no objective evidence was found by the Italian side to support the accusation, no accurate and well - founded fact that would allow Markiv to be blamed personally. Regardless of the fact that the suspect testified during the investigation, demonstrating his involuntaryness to these events, the Italian judicial authorities did not consider it necessary to call a precaution or at least turn him into a domestic arrest. And the restriction on changing Markov’s accusation, which is now defined as complicit in the death of Italian citizen Rockell, is a complicity that is not supported by any evidence in the documents of the indictment. To this day, there is no definitive evidence that the journalist was struck by the shootings of those who were upstairs. In the summer of 2017, representatives of the Italian Public Prosecutor's Office were questioned as witnesses of the national deputies of Ukraine and members of the National Guard of Ukraine, Andri Antoništak and Bogdan Matkovsky, who handed over official legal acts to the Italian Prosecutor's Office, confirming Markiv's legality in an anti-terrorist operation in the east of Ukraine, extracts from the Ukrainian National Guard Act, the President's decree on urgent measures to address the terrorist threat, preserve territorial integrity, and more than 13 documents. It should also be noted that on October 16, 2017, the National Guard of Ukraine became a full member of the International Association of Gendarmerie Forces and Police in the status of the military institution. Attention! On April 4th, Vitali Markov reported that an Italian party had been asked by the Russian Federation to provide international legal assistance in the discovery of a criminal case in connection with the death of Russian journalist Mironov under Slavian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u7	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u8	Solar's still there, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u9	There's a speech by Solar. Solar too, so I'm adding three minutes to Andrew Antonishtak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u10	In the case of the death of Russian journalist Andrei Mironov under Slavian, along with Italian journalist Andrea Rockkelli. According to Vitali Markiv, the request is about the Russian party’s desire to question the Nazi guard as a witness. It should also be noted that in the case of the Italian indictment against Vitali Markiv, there will be an international precedent for the illegal actions of Ukraine's military formations to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity and, in particular, every military officer involved in the hostilities in these military formations. Also, for the Russian Federation, this will be an important argument -- to be included as a third party, to address the Hague and to seek to eliminate sanctions from the Russian Federation. As Ukraine's national deputy, I refer to the world community, to diplomatic representatives in the EU countries, to my fellow parliamentarians, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to the Security Service of Ukraine again, to the law enforcement authorities of Italy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will ensure that my address from the rostrum of Parliament is transmitted to the head of the European Parliament. We do. We highly appreciate Italy's position on Ukraine, but there is another problem. According to information provided by the Chief Military Prosecutor of Ukraine, Mr. Matios, Head of the Security Service, Mr. Gretzak, in the presence of 25 Italians who were taking and participating in the war against our country in eastern Ukraine. Here's the list! In the separatist battalions of East and Ghost. These individuals may be involved in the deaths of civilians and Ukrainian military personnel. In turn, we call on the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service: to report to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations on relevant articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine; the second, to consult the Italian law enforcement authorities with a request for cooperation in investigating the reported criminal conduct. Third: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to hand over to the Italian side, the Italian Ambassador to Ukraine, a note of protest against the participation of Italian citizens in the war against Ukraine. The people of Ukraine, the distinguished national MPs, the battalion of General Kulczycke in the four years of the war, have left no dead in the field of battle, we have no prisoners of war, we will not leave our brothers in the prison of Italy. We believe that common sense and justice will prevail in Italy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u11	Thank you for your position. The position is right and fair. And I will take care of this investigation and contribute as much as possible to it objectively. Bogdan gives the word for Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u12	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction personally hopes that our diplomats, personally the President, will do their utmost to get Mr. Markov released from the Italian liquor store. I want to pay attention to journalists, activists and people's deputies who are interested in energy reform. In 40 minutes at the PEC Committee in Leipzig, there will be an uninterrupted event: a commission to select new members of the NCRECR. In the sinks, why? Because it's going to be a case and a request by Dmitri Vuka who decided to go to an open competition after almost 3.5 years of his appointment as President. What's all the intrigue? A week ago, the competition commission was reviewing his application, and it turned out that he did not have five years to be a candidate. He worked for only 3.5 years as the head of the NCREKP, and before that he worked at the ISU in Gottarieva and at the ISU in Poshenko in Roshen in Moscow. He appealed, saying that when he worked at the Gontareva financial company, he analyzed the Donextal documents, which had some coal mine in them, and he worked for almost two years to analyze the documents of this mine, and that's why he has the right to engage in energy. Nonsense. And, you know, I'd like to offer those people who really want Mr. Wolf to be a candidate again for the members of the NCREKP to adopt the bill, as it was done for Lucenka, for the other members. This is what will make all members of the coalition, the ISU, the Roshenu workers, who use electricity, which is washed with hot water, which they consume, let them have five years of experience in energy. And those MPs who want to support Mr. Dmitri, who voted, for example, for medical reform, for educational reform or for military law, whether they have the status of a candidate for science, I don't know, a surgeon there. If we voted for military law, we could give the colonels right away. Nonsense! So I invite everyone to come and look at this mess. We have five members of the commission: Mr. Kotko Vasil Grigorovich, who is the head of this commission, Mrs. Golikov Svetlana, Mrs. Nitsak Mikola, Mr. Potošnik Semen Israelevich, Hero of Ukraine, by the way, Mr. Jastrubinski Vasil. So I want all the respectable persons and ladies and ladies to remember that life after today does not end, and all their decisions. They don't hide behind a college decision if they try to drag Mr. Wolfe in. I don't know, for a box of Roshenna or something. I don't know what they're offering. So the whole country is going to see: either the commission is going to make, in fact, a state decision and it's not going to create dangerous precedents to continue the "Rotterdam Plus" policy -- subscription, RAB tariffs and other things; or, in fact, the commission is going to work independently. That's why I'm inviting everyone to the PEC Committee at 11:00. Everyone to see Mr. Wolf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Barbinenko gives the floor to Andrew Shipk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u14	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nicopol city, in the city of Pochrov, Nicopolsk district. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Christ the Resurrection! Ukraine, your cultural and spiritual values have been shaped for more than a century. People's songs, cultural monuments, historical discoveries made us all a strong, great people with centuries of history. We must preserve our cultural and spiritual heritage, for this is the heart of our people. Today, thousands of my countrymen are outraged by the destruction of Nechayya's grave, the third - century Scythian Kurgan of the Third Century B.C., in the village of Lebedinsk Nikopolski district of the Dnipropetrov region. This is the most unexplored burial of the Scythian kings in the territory of Ukraine, a monument to the archaeology of national significance. Black archaeologists or, simply put, thieves damaged the grave by digging a mine about 20 meters deep. At the bottom of the mine were found abandoned instruments of crime, instruments, and helmets that could testify to one thing: they found what they were looking for. We have the most unexplored kung fu robbery in Eurasia. It is not just Scythian gold, it is the historical memory of our people. Nicopolska is the center of the Great Scythian region, where a scientist named Mozolevsky, an archaeologist, found the famous Golden pectoral in 1971. Regrettably, for more than 10 years, the workers of the Nicopolian National Museum and the carefree citizens have found the stolen and destroyed Scythian Kurgans. Dozens of appeals to law enforcement agencies have failed, for no criminal has been apprehended. And what happened was the peak of theft, because the Kurgan Nechayya's grave was standing in World War II. One and a half thousand soldiers fell here, preventing the fascists from taking the rubble. And today we demand that these black archaeologists be punished. Crime has to be held accountable. We demand an immediate intervention in the situation of the Ukrainian Culture Minister. Nechai's grave needs protection. We need to create a committee of the Ministry of Culture and the Institute of Archaeology and assess the condition of the Kurgan. On behalf of all Ukrainians, I demand the immediate intervention of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine in this situation and to take personal control of the investigation of this crime. Please consider my speech as a deputy address to the Minister of Culture and Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u15	Thank you. The archbishop of Valeria gives the floor to Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u16	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party These days I was in our Ukrainian Odessa, visiting the Odessa Art Museum. I've seen a lot of beautiful paintings, masterpieces, of which there are only 1,000 exhibits, and 8,000 are in reserve. And what happens the next day? And the next day, the museum comes with the Schwanders and the Odessa Straits, the former regions that are now lining up in opposition territories, and they don't care about museums, they're interested in budget allocations, they're sitting on corruption and they're sitting there. They're interested in taking down Alexander Roitburg's new museum director. Here you go, don't take Alexander Roitburg off! There will be no such thing! Moreover, they are not concerned about the initiative of the head of the district administration to grant the status of the Kuyalnik State resort, which is an international and unique resort, whose waters and mud are likened to the Dead Sea. They don't care. They are interested in budget allocations. In addition, I would like to speak separately in the context of Odessa to the Minister of Defense, the military prosecutor Anatoly Matios, regarding the soldier of the Primorski district of Odessa Loban Oleg Leonidovich. This person bought an apartment in Crimea in 2015. While the best of the best Ukrainian sons protected the country, it bought an apartment in the occupied Crimea. His declaration must be studied by the DAILY. But perhaps there is no time for this. I have a rhetorical question: if we want Odessa to be really preserved, really be a Ukrainian city, then we have to have a hard-on policy of fighting with these skulls, with these "swanders" and "sharikes" that destroy museums just for their ambitions and the distribution of funds. This is where we stand and stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u17	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! At a time when, because of the failure of the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney-General himself, the son of Yanukovic, Janukovic himself, Kolobov, Klimenko, Bogatyrov and many, many factors of the Yanukovic regime, the prosecutor's office does not know what to do. There was an unprecedented incident in Zaporozhye region: a person released from custody who led all the financial equipment of the Anisimov gang manager in Zaporozhye district. Moreover, she is released from the courtroom and is now walking quietly wherever she pleases. This is because the leader of the organized criminal group Anisim is in international search and hiding in Russia, in Cyprus, in the occupied Crimea. At the same time, the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye district of Romanov is not against separatists, not against the theft of hundreds of millions of dollars, but against the deputies of the village councils, accusing them of taking state power. What is happening to small businesses today is that the prosecutors of the Zaporozhye District have rebelled against this false prosecutor Romanov and wrote an open letter to the Attorney General. Unfortunately, there is no reaction. And all attempts to call this pseudo-prosecutor Romanov directly to give testimony to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, to the Human Resources Commission, have been slowing down for a month, and there are no matters. I'm warning Attorney General Lucenk personally. As long as your subordinates in the field are engaged in the village councils, accusing them of trying to seize state authority, and your prosecutors will be on the scene covering criminals for millions and hundreds of millions of dollars, this will in fact continue your policy of contracting with Jura Yenokiyevsky, Kolobov, Klimenko, Yanukovich, Azarov, who have been photographed only in the last year. I think it's the judgment of the sales attorney's system itself, which can't possibly understand that there are new times in the country, and the methods used by the wheat and its subordinates have come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u20	Good afternoon, Ukraine. Many allegations of corruption, but most impressive of all is the corruption on government procurement, which relates to the defence and military sector. And for days there have been known facts that point to the cynical looting of state enterprises to enrich the clans of today’s ruling peak. I'll give you just a few examples that are already passed on to law enforcement agencies so you can understand the cynicism and the subtlety of people who are now in power in Ukraine and who are in charge of government funds. So last year, the Impulse plant in the town of Shastka sold 110 packs of detonators and capsules for the Cyprus offshore, called PH Strategic Business Limited. The contract price is 95,000 euros. But this same party at this very moment is going from the Cypriot offshore to the Serbian firm Sloboda at the price of 700,000 euros. So a one-time rush or something, otherwise, like stealing it's not called stealing, it's actually 8 times the price is actually too high. Sorry, the price is 7 times the price. 95,000 euros and 700,000 euros are in one party only. And we imagine what the extent of the State's theft is, if there's only one of those abuses on the equipment. But it's not one fact, and these facts are systemic. In addition, the purchase in the Czech Republic of military infantry vehicles for the Ukrainian army is planned this year, and this is an extremely important one, and this is Ukraine's defence. But instead of making a direct contract, the contract is made with the same offshore company Petralink Limited of Cyprus. Address: Feneronemis Avenue, 145, Office 102, Larnaca. You don't even have to have a lot of brains, just search the Internet, and you'll see that there's a Smart Office & Companies at this address in Cyprus. It's just a firm to create the same similar firms. They're just distributing them as xerox. And this, I repeat, is not just some firm that does not know what. It's a firm, this petralink Limited, it's buying for the Ukrainian Army combat infantry cars in the Czech Republic. The question is why such contracts cannot be made directly. Because then there will be no corruption. The most interesting thing is that the director of this construction company is a Ukrainian citizen whose father worked for years in the Ucrobanprom system. So in a system that should protect Ukraine, the defense of our state, and actually just turned into a system of looting state funds. And this has to be investigated by the law enforcement authorities and evaluated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u21	And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Shevchenko Victor gives Batenko the floor, please. And then there'll be announcements from the factions. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriots Association Ukrop. As you know, colleagues, the Head of Parliament said that there would be parliamentary hearings today in the session room at 3 p.m. on the theme "Stand, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage Protection in Ukraine." Last year, the European Parliament decided to celebrate 2018 as a year of cultural heritage in Europe. And it is only in Ukraine that there is no effect on this cultural heritage. The event that happened today, which happened this month in my constituency, I'm going to ask you to show the slides on the screen right now, which is pretty distasteful and has nothing to do with preserving cultural acquisition in Ukraine. It is the destruction of a unique monument to the history of culture, the architecture in the Ukraine of the Pomorian Castle, a 15th - century castle that has survived more than one generation. The destruction of the eastern wall of the Pomeranian castle’s wing, which actually leads to the destruction of the castle as a whole. Together with activists, representatives of civil organizations, and the local community, we have struggled for several years to preserve and restore the Pomorian Castle, since it is not every year in Ukraine that we lose cultural heritage. And let this picture that you see today be an episode of the state of our national heritage, with which parliamentarians, public activists and experts will gather today for parliamentary hearings. Because today’s parliamentary hearings are to produce the result of how we will continue to remember our national memory. I am more than convinced, colleagues, that the loss of cultural historical national memory is no less terrible than the loss of political sovereignty. And please, and I demand the officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the officials of the Ministry of Culture, not to allow the district government to ultimately lose this unique monument to the history of Ukrainian culture. I'm talking to the head of the district government, to all the public activists now to take the anti-accident measures that can be taken from the reserve fund and the special fund. I am more than convinced that in our years of independence we have never learned to save our national monuments as part of our protective legislation. Just like all over Europe when we are. Europe has been able to place monuments in private hands, along with a state concession for 50 years in private concessions, while preserving protective legislation, opening hotels there, opening pavilions, opening exhibition halls, and storing monuments for future generations. We erase our national memory and thus erase it from the perspective and forget who we are. Let us not let this happen; the last chance may be for those unique memories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u23	Thank you. I fully support your position with regard to memory protection and especially locks. I think that parliamentary hearings today will be able to answer that question, and we can form a parliamentary question on this point. Now, colleagues, I want to let you know that I have an address. There are two petitions in the Presidium: one from the Self-Help factions and the Fatherland factions, the other from the People's Front and the Radical Party. And I'm giving you the turn of day, first by two factions of Self-Help and Fatherhood to Tatyana Ostrecki, please, and then by the People's Front and the Radical Party. Please, Mrs. Tetjana, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u24	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Last week we traveled to the region, and all the Ukrainians were amazed at the size of the pit on the roads. We have roads so that the enemy from the east doesn't go to Kiev, because Kharkivska, Dnipropetrovska and half of Poltava are just no roads, and in Kharkiv region, people sign cursors with the names of the locations as a road of shame. But you should not forget that the enemy rides the tanks, and they don’t care what the road is. Instead, the Ukrainians drive regular cars, and not all of them arrived on the weekend without breaking because of the terrible condition of the roads, for the asphalt came down with snow from last year’s pit repair. This year, a record amount of over 30 billion dollars has been set up to repair the route. But this does not mean that the following spring asphalt will be in place, since most of the road coverings are again going to be sealed. For the past four years, the government has not spent enough money on roads. Let me give you an example. Kharkiv region, in the 16th year, only 300 million were allocated to all roads in the area, in 2017: 1.3, and in 2018 it will be 2.8 billion dollars. This raises a question, and where the taxpayers' costs were spent in previous years, despite government statements on road construction and infrastructure projects. We've found that over the last three years, police funding has increased by 2.5 times -- 18 billion -- to 46. Funding has increased by 2 times: there were 3 billion, there were 6. So, according to the government, in 14-17 years, it was probably more important to finance the construction of a police state than infrastructure projects. Although we are constantly hearing from the authorities about the protection of business and the care of the Ukrainian. In the 1980s, a system of interstate expressways was built in America, which provides an opportunity to travel at a speed of 125 kilometers an hour without stopping the country. They spent $129 billion, and the benefits of the Interstate network brought more than $2.1 trillion to the country because of the road crash, the cost of transporting goods decreased, and the price fell. The network of roads united the American economy into one organism. The American hills on our routes are the only one that connects Ukraine with the U.S. roads. We can't even get from Kiev to Odessa without an RV, and the Odessa route is repaired annually and opened annually. That is why we demand a government report, and we especially demand that this Friday the government report to the country on which 38 billion dollars will go to the Road Service budget this year. We demand that we stop mimicking road works through the pit repairs, although it is very convenient for the unclean at the hands of officials who repair and fly the same holes each year. We demand an end to the corruption in motor vehicles and to the bidding of officials who have been cut off. Do you not realize that if you do not build Ukrainian roads that are blood vessels, you will not ensure the unity and normal functioning of the Ukrainian organism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u25	Thank you. And from the People's Front faction and the Radical Party to the word I invite Igor Mosiyczuk, this will be the final performance. Then there will be a vote, and I invite all the national deputies, and prepare for work. Please, Mr. Igor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u26	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! We'd like to remind you why the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka and the non-factional factions, which in some cases have joined, are now blocking the rostrum. It's very simple: we are ahead of the next year's most technological catastrophe of mankind -- the Chernobyl AES accident, and we have no right to continue that shameful policy that the government of Azirov has begun. They took the benefits from those Chernobylers who saved the Ukrainian nation, Europe, and the world from extinction. We owe them an unappreciative debt, and they're now starving under the cosmopolitans, and they're meeting under the Ukrainian Parliament tomorrow, and they're going to be on this balcony. People are good, respectable colleagues! Melt the ice in your heart, turn your face to those who saved the nation from extinction! Join us! Come up, stand by and demonstrate to the Ukrainian people that we are the only ones to protect his social interests. Yes, today we're blocking the rostrum, but tomorrow, if we don't put our bill to the vote, the Bill of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska 4442, which is supported by the committee, and the committee also asks him to put it to a vote, we'll block the presidency, and we won't let Parliament work until he's done his duty to those who didn't regret life, didn't regret health, and now he can't buy the medicine in the pharmacy, now there are no Chernobyls to bury the funds. Every year, the number of graves of those who gave their lives increased, and the parliament thinks they are toys. And according to the M.E., there's no money. Costs are less need to steal, less need to steal on the roads, less money on the economy. The cost is, let's repay our debt to the black people. And Oleg Láska's Radical Party calls on all of us to join and defend the rights of the Chernobylites.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u27	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, we have two draft ratification laws in our agenda today. The first is the draft Act ratifying the European Council Convention on Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Security and Services in Football Games and Other Sports Measures (0180). And I, colleagues, would like to support the committee's proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:51:22]] For 118 I'll do it again. If there aren't any votes, we're going to go through with it. So, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal to review draft Law 0180 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:51:54]] For-123 Not enough votes, we're going into full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovitch. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Security and Services during Football matches and other sporting activities. This is a project. the European Council of Europe Convention was opened until the signing of the European Football Championship of 2016 on 3 July 2016. Ukraine has signed this Convention, it contains key principles and gives the right to take action, which is the basis of existing relevant practices that are used to reduce the threats to security and order that occur during football matches and other sporting events for various reasons, such as natural disasters, terrorist acts, infrastructure failures, any form of violence or improper behaviour. The key general principles of the Convention are focused around the need to approve a comprehensive approach in three ways (order, security and security) and to create a partnership between all institutions and persons who want to make football matches and other sporting events safe and hospitable for all. Request to support this bill. He's not. is completely nonpolitical. I think all the factions of Parliament will vote for it, the more before the finals of the League of Champions in May 2018 here in Ukraine in Kiev. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u29	Please sign up for the interview. Three minutes, please. Ivchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u30	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say "The Fatherland" for returning the benefits to the black people. We didn't vote in favour of the budget, and in doing so we confirmed our position that not only do we want to return them, but we wanted to keep them, and we talked about it to the entire high-level parliament. Today we are considering ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on a comprehensive approach to security and security during football matches. We really need to ratify this because you know that the final of the League of Champions is going to be in Kiev, we really need to join this convention in order to provide comprehensive security at our stadiums. It's important, colleagues. So I propose that we go to the vote and accept this. And all those standing there today have also joined the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Please give me an answer. Is that a question to the reporter? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u32	Well, that's probably not a question. Thank you for your support. Indeed, it is necessary to ratify the convention, especially at the forerunners of the League of Champions. Thank you for pressing the "for" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u33	Thank you. I ask you a question from the national deputy of Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u34	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kishkara Pavel Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u35	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, both this question and the next ratification, as well as the question raised by Mr. Spiowakovsky regarding the increase of scholarships from the Supreme Council to talented young people, need rapid consideration and rapid support in this room. I ask the chairman to pay attention to this so that people don't run, and we get these three important ratifications of the support room. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u36	Thank you. This was also a more up - to - date comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u37	Thank you for your support, Mr. People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u38	I would like to ask you a question from National Deputy Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Igor Alexanderovich! Actually, here's the question. To date, stadiums in Ukraine should only undergo certification that actually confirms the operational reliability, the condition of buildings, the coverage, and so forth. Along with the convention that we ratify, there is also a certification procedure, a licensing procedure. Is there today a vision in the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, of how to do this license and whether Ukrainian stadiums are ready to go through licensing according to this convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. We're going to put in the Cabinet of Ministers the order of such a license order. I think you're going to be involved in its development, too. Obviously, not all the stadiums are ready for us, we've talked to you about it, it's units while we're ready for that kind of licensing. But, of course, step by step, we will approach all necessary European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u42	Thank you. And the final question from the national deputy, Sergei Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u44	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u45	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I repeat the support and urgency of both this convention and the next issue. And we look forward to it now, if there is such an opportunity, Mr. Minister, to ask the question when will your concept, which you presented at the beginning of your sports reform policy, be implemented? When will you bring to Parliament an appropriate bill that will contain the standards that you have declared when you take up this office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u46	Thank you. I think that's, uh, that's it. Are you going to answer, Mr. Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Come to the committee today, that's where these issues are being discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u48	Thank you. We finished the question to the reporter. I invite you to speak to the co-rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u49	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, on the eve of the finale of the UEFA Champions League, which will take place at the end of May, it is very important for us to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on a comprehensive approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sporting activities. I would like to point out that this convention identifies key principles of action aimed at countering potential and real threats to security and public order during football matches, other sporting events, and overcoming their negative consequences. Such threats may arise for various reasons, particularly because of natural disasters, infrastructure incompetence, terrorist acts, any other form of violence or improper behaviour. The main objective of the Convention’s activities is to develop, approve and implement a comprehensive inter-agency approach to ensuring order, security and security during football matches and sports events, to deal effectively with all interested entities involved in or involved in organizing and carrying out sporting activities. According to the explanatory note to the bill, its implementation will not affect the spending of state and local budgets. And I would also like to say that the ratification by Ukraine of the convention will help bring the area of physical culture and sport closer to European standards, particularly in the areas of security, security and service during the organization and conduct of football matches and other sporting activities. Please support, colleagues, the ratification of this convention. I will immediately point out that the European Convention on Violence and Improper Conduct on the part of the audience during sports activities, such as football matches, is next in order. And actually, the convention that we're looking at right now is the successor. So we have to ratify this convention first and then, I very much hope that in the session room, and I encourage my colleague to come back, we have votes for ratification and denunciation. It's very important. And I would also like to say that it's extremely good that the UEFA League final will take place in Ukraine, just like Euroworking last year in Kiev. I think it's very important, from the point of view of the promotion of our nation, that these measures go according to all the standards, and that's why we have to ratify this convention. Also, colleagues, it would be extremely good to have deputies back in the session room right now, because it would be very unpleasant if we couldn't ratify this agreement, and we had very little time to ratify it. I would also like to say that, for our parliamentary diplomacy, it is extremely important, colleagues, to work together to block the North Stream Two. And here I wanted to thank all the parliamentarians for their efforts. And also to announce that next week there will be a committee in the foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark in the Parliament. And I think it's also an opportunity to call, especially our Danish colleagues, to do everything possible not to get permission, and, in particular, Gazprom has not been able to build the North Stream through Denmark. So these are some of the priorities that are in our agenda. And obviously I would like to say that it is extremely important for Parliament to sign the President under the Law on Diplomatic Service, which was supported by 276 parliamentarians. And we very much hope that the President who introduced this law as an urgent one will be able to sign it as soon as possible and, finally, strengthen the diplomatic front so that our parliamentarians will have the opportunity. And obviously, I'm reminding you of an unappointed ambassador in Denmark, as my colleagues have told me, because this is extremely important, considering also the conference in support of reforms that will take place at the end of June in the Kingdom of Denmark, for which we thank the government and Denmark and Britain and Canada, which are helping Ukraine to promote the gains that are, in particular, the reform of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. And once again, I urge you to go back to the hall, because it's a full-time review, and it's an opportunity for those who haven't yet come to the session room to show up to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Right now we have time for questions to be asked by a co-rapporteur. If there are such questions, please participate in the record. Please hold the recording. Please give the question to the national deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u51	Good afternoon! Mr. Secretary, please tell me. If, God forbid, there's not enough votes in the hall right now to ratify this agreement, the convention, what sanctions are there for our country, our stadiums, our football clubs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u52	This is a question to a coconspirator, to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please. This is a question for the co-conspirator who is waiting for Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u53	Colleagues are likely to be held in Ukraine by the UEFA Champions League. But it is very important for us to join and ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sporting activities, if you look at the various articles of this Convention, how these measures should be carried out, we have in some way shown that we guarantee for those and guests, and various sports teams that will be there, that there will be no use of different pyrotechnic means, violent or prohibited behaviour, any racist or other discriminatory behaviour, that security in stadiums, in public places will be ensured. Therefore, we would like to make certain commitments and guarantees through ratification. So I urge you to come back and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u55	Mrs. Hanna, I'd like to ask you to confirm or refute my thesis. It's not just a football issue, it's a security issue at the stadiums of a warring country. It's not just about football, it's about diplomacy and the foreign policy of our state. Now, television screens and this is a subject of attention, not of millions, not of tens, not of hundreds, but of billions of citizens around the world. They are watching Ukraine and how Ukraine responds to the key challenges it faces and then to those who come to us. So I invite everyone, first of all, the heads of factions to come to Parliament. There is no faction leader in Parliament today. The other one. Members of parliament to come here and give the necessary votes to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u57	Colleagues, I wanted us not to discuss party discipline now, and we demonstrated by our presence our willingness to ratify this important convention before the League of Champions, which will take place in May in Kiev. I agree that the issue of security is extremely important, but I think that during the Euro that took place last year, "Europe," Ukraine just demonstrated the ability to protect, ensure security, order, and in this way we would demonstrate not only the ability to resist the Russian aggressor, but also to show that our law enforcement agencies, our services are working to ensure that both guests and visitors are safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u58	Thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u59	Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a soccer fan, I want to remind you and ask you to take control, and I think the minister of sports is hearing me now. First of all, this ratification needs to be supported, it's very important. But the cowards, what do the cowards say? They remind us that there are huge questions to our police and law enforcement agencies. And I have a huge request to note that this convention, which is absolutely faithful, does not become a dove, a stick in the hands of our law enforcement officers who will use it. So the question on both sides, it's very important, it's important to consult with cowards, because football is fans, they're cowards. On the one hand, we need to protect and explain to them why we can't do the same, the same thing, but, on the other hand, the police and all the other special forces have to take responsibility and not use these extra security standards against the cowards, it's very important. And we know how conflicts are created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Will you answer, head of the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u61	Thank you very much to the head of the committee for complimenting me on my support for football. In fact, I would really like to encourage all the fans from all the different countries that will come to Kiev, and especially Ukrainian fans, so that, in particular, the League's championship takes place at a worthy level, with respect for one another. And to the law enforcement agencies, I very much hope that there will be a training meeting, and we will be able to provide that security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u62	Thank you. And we're going from factions to factions. I'd like to ask my fellow Members to participate in the faction discussion record. Welcome to the speech of the National MP Nechayev from "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u63	Please pass on the word to Yuri Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u64	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u65	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Minister, Honorable Colleagues! The Opposition Block will support the ratification of this convention. We think it's very important that we act and adopt decisions that match the best traditions of Europe and the world and the safety trends of stadiums and viewers. Well, in fact, every game we have is at the highest level, and we've invited, and we've run all new and new high-level competitions in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that this convention has new requirements and new requirements for Ukrainian authority, government and competent authorities. In particular, it establishes, apart from active certification, what is called licensing. What kind of license is that? What are his requirements? Unfortunately, both the minister and the committee heads did not hear the speeches. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Republic of Poland, which ratified this convention and was, by the way, our Euro 2012 partner, and the stadiums we were building in parallel, adopted a decision and did not agree to article 5, paragraph 2, of this convention, where, inter alia, these new requirements for the safety, licensing and certification of each stadium are defined. I would ask the Ministry very much, and the committees of profile to study why Poland disagreed. I do not rule out that the same reasons exist in Ukraine. But because we're here, as always, under hurrah patriotism and some kind of competition we're trying to conduct a document, we're not really studying the issue, and we can, by ratifying this convention, take on those commitments and demands for Ukrainian stadiums that we can't meet. Knowing how the Ukrainian government works, very slowly and unprofessionally, we can put it at risk by ratifying this convention, including the finale of the League of Champions, for the new requirements will already appear in a stadium that we have unfortunately not heard about today and, accordingly, the authorities do not know. That's why the Opposition Block, of course, supports this innovation. At the same time, we ask the Ministry and the government to take the new requirements of the convention before the Ukrainian State very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u66	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak to the People's Deputies' Block of Peter Dustenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u67	Please give the floor to a colleague of John Dmitrovich Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u68	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u69	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, election district No15, Winnitzkin. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking at the full programme of this bill, and so many national deputies have left the hall, and I would very much like everyone to come back, because today we must do everything we can to get the bill ratified. After all, the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention and the comprehensive approach to this issue are quite important. We are well aware that there will be, there may be various threats, and we must prepare for them. I think our minister has just said that on our Committee today, young people, families, sports, and others will also consider the subject that they want to come, listen to, it is very important. But I'd still like to warn one thing that we should be getting ready for today. We have to be on all television right now, all over, instead of the show, we have to explain to people, explain to the cowards that we have to show the face of our country at a higher level. And we have to do everything we can to ratify this agreement, and do everything we can to make sure that we do both the finals of the Euroliga, and other European cups, the competition at a higher level in our country. That's why Peter Prashenko's Block will vote in favour of the bill, and I would very much like to have all the bill in question supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u70	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Danchenk of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u71	Once again, I want to say that we certainly need to vote on this convention, because unfortunately, communication is not the right thing to do right now. Because this convention isn't just under the finale of the Champions League. We are obliged by our international treaties to ratify this convention for all international competitions in Ukraine. If we don't ratify this convention, it's not just the finale of the Champions League, we can lose all the international competitions. The other one. I want to point out that there are no people in this room. And that is the risk of not being voted on. I am addressing all the national deputies, the heads of factions, to invite people into the hall. Now I have a question for the minister of sports. Mr. Zhdanov, I would like to emphasize once again that communication with fans and cowards is very bad. You have to explain this convention, you have to explain to the law enforcement authorities that this convention can't be a conflict between cowards and law enforcement agencies, it's very important. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. Now it's on the security systems, and it's on the sports floor. Minister, about a month ago we were talking to you about the fantastic success of our main Olympic collective. I ask you one more question: where is your program? What about funding, real financing for sports? Why don't you stand up for alternative incomes in the budget, like lotteries that need legalizing, in order to fund real children's sports? Please take on the development of children’s sports, because there will be no adult sports, there will be no Olympics, if the state does not pay attention to children’s sports. And I have one more question. In your interview, you said that 800 million dollars you want to spend on the renovation of the Olympic base in Concha-Spas. I have a question: Why? There's no training there because we don't have junior kids. I have a huge request: spend this cost on the development of 10, 20, 30 children's schools in Ukraine, it will be much more effective than before the 800 million budget elections to spend on the Olympic base. And I want to tell you that there's no such thing as a central Olympic base in the world. The Olympics train separately and then gather together in one Olympic team. So you don't have to cheat people, invest money in children's sports. And the convention needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u73	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Well, first of all, in order to remove speculation, I want to say that the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, as a law-abiding citizen, is now testifying in court in a case of treason. It's just that there's no speculation here that some people are trying to spread. Now essentially the bill. We're safe in Ukrainian stadiums. It's principled, but, at the same time, we want Mr. Minister, the Ministry to consult with football fans, representatives of ultras to make it work, not only does this convention ratify, but there is a law that will provide for sanctions. And so that the cowards will know what to shout on the rooster stand. Or "Chemodan Voxal-Maldews," they won't be dragged to the liquor store tomorrow, and so on. So our faction is not going to vote for this bill right now, and we're proposing to the Ministry, ready to join, there's a lot of cowards among the national MPs, there's going to be a framework bill that's going to be submitted to this ratification, under this convention, and then together after the discussion with the ultras, there's going to be a discussion with the bullies that can be accepted. Because now that they're saying, "Oh, we're not going to have the Euroleague finale!" or we won't have anything else, I'm sorry, but in 2014, when we had to protect the country, the ultras went first, without any military knowledge, nothing, many people put their heads together. And unlike those who do not vote for the budget in a warring country, they deserve great respect and respect. So I call on the Ministry and all the colleagues to cooperate with the real fans of Ukrainian football, and to work together to make the right decisions, otherwise they won't have support in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to join the "Fatherland" faction of People's Deputy Krulka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, this bill, which provides for the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on a comprehensive approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sporting activities, has no policy whatsoever. It is a convention that is adopted by the Council of Europe, and we as a parliament can either ratify it or not ratify it, thereby agreeing on its responsibility for Ukraine. But at the same time, we need to understand that this convention provides for the proper licensing of Ukrainian stadiums. And without such a license, it will be difficult for us to participate as a country in a variety of international games and to take here, to the Ukrainian state, the highest category of the championship. The fact that Ukraine was granted the right to hold the final match of the League of Champions in Kiev this year is a great credit to the Federation of football in Ukraine and our entire country. And it doesn't have to be sarcasm, because opening Ukraine to the world is the unique thing that we have to support all of Parliament. That is why I believe that, in the lead of this final match, we should, as a Parliament, demonstrate that we support those bills that will contribute to this final, and such bills have already been supported by this Parliament. In addition, we absolutely need to ratify, and the "Fatherland" faction supports the ratification of this convention, which has nothing to do with politics, but it relates exclusively to sporting action. And one more thing. Ukrainian ultras is, for the most part, the high moral and cultural people who come to the stadiums to support their teams. They are the face of many football teams that perform at the European Championships, the League of Europe, the League of Champions. And, of course, we have to have a dialogue with them to support them in every way. And at the same time, at Ukrainian football stadiums, really, building understanding, tolerance for each other, mutual respect. And certainly think about security at Ukrainian stadiums, remembering that we are in a state of war with the Russian Federation and aggression from Russia to Ukraine. This convention needs to be voted on, and I urge the session room to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u76	Thank you. The factions are finished. I now request that you record the national MPs who wish to participate in the discussion. Please record. Mr. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u77	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Unfortunately, we have enough time for ratifications. Today is a whole day of ratification. This is an important ratification, but I'll see after the match, how many complaints there will be from our citizens about the fact that the Republic Stadium is going to be full of advertising by the chief sponsor of the League of Russian Champions of Gazprom. There will be no place to stand, so Ukraine will be advertising Russian Gazprom on its broadcast, and that's where you'll be singing. And the second. The people who are standing today are blocking the rostrum, and they have time to protect the Chernobyls. I am confident that these people who have a conscience will continue to block the rostrum after the Chernobyl Act has been passed, to restore pension justice for those who have been offended by this pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u78	Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u79	I stress once again, I call on the faction leaders to organize factions to vote on this extremely important bill, which not only applies to football, but also to the image of Ukraine in the world, sports diplomacy, the foreign policy of our state. In this way we can turn to not millions, I stress, billions of citizens around the world, to raise the Ukrainian problem, to focus on the challenges facing Ukraine and the whole world. In particular, I'm informing you that the head of the BP faction, Arthur Gerasimov, has arrived at my request. I invite other faction leaders to take an example from the head of the BPT faction and to come here in the same way and invite Ukrainian national deputies. But seriously, the situation in Parliament in the voting room of this bill, and the fact that we are a similar formal bill, but very important, we are considering the full procedure and thus taking away the opportunity to consider a number of social bills, to open important social discussions on wages, pensions, and scholarships is shameful for the Ukrainian Parliament. We need serious reform of the Rules, review of the Rules and in principle of strategy and tactics, and of the working methods of parliament in Ukraine. As for ultras. I would like to point out that our team has prepared a bill to protect the interests of the Ukrainians who, I support Krulka, are truly moral authorities, patriots, are totally conscious, cultural, educated people and are the voice of the Ukrainian people. From the rostrums of football fields, they tell the truth about what the people think about power, they talk about what the people want from power. They actually focus on the challenges that are relevant to the Ukrainian people. We need to support these people, we need to create all the legal conditions for their activities, for them in particular, the struggles, to solve their interests and their initiatives, and their activities. Both the minister, both the prime minister, and the minister of sport should be constantly in dialogue with the leaders of these organizations. We support this bill's vote. It's important, it's relevant. And we ask all the deputies to come here and vote on this bill. It is an expression of our sports diplomacy and foreign policy, Ukraine’s positive position in the world, which is essential for us to achieve feedback in the world in part of the support of other initiatives by our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Petrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u81	At the end of the 13th year, there was a unique phenomenon in Ukraine where football fans from completely different fanatical groups came together and became not only the main strike force in Midan but also the only force protecting Jews throughout Ukraine: Donetsk, Luhansk and Simferopol, including. At the beginning of the Russian aggression, hundreds of thousands of football fans volunteered. No social, professional, subculture of the Ukrainian population, as a percentage, was given that number of volunteers in the 14th year. To all of these, the Ukrainian football fan community, as a minimum, earned the right to vote. Today this vote is against the ratification of this convention for the time being. Not against the principle of ratification, but against the fact that there will be a broader discussion with the fanatic community of how this will be implemented in our legislation. Because there are huge risks of what will happen, it will be based on the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian football fans, Ukrainian ultras. So today, before there's an understanding in this part of the implementation of the convention, my voice and as the voice of the community of Ukrainian football fans against.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. Which is why I'm asking all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall right now. And I ask you to mobilize the factions as much as possible to vote. Now it's for Roman's Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u83	Romanova, "The Self-Help Union." Fellows, you know that Ukraine, if you take a World Bank rating, it's safe in the tourist attraction of the top-10 most dangerous for travel in the world. What does this have to do with anything? The main reasons are fear, it's the uncertainty that a civilized tourist can feel safe in our country. The second is the lack of tourist infrastructure, broken roads, lack of normal railway connections, high airline tickets, etc. And in order to create conditions in Ukraine for us to go to the finals of the League of Champions, and at other sporting events of tourists from Europe and around the world, it's really not enough to ratify just this convention, it's a drop in the sea, you have to take a number of steps to improve the quality of the same tourism services and security in our country. As for the fact that fans now disagree with this option. It's just a signal that there's been no prior consultation of the ministry with the cowards. It is a signal that there is not only a lack of government policy in Ukraine to remove all obstacles to entry into the country but also a lack of public dialogue policy. What do you need now? Now there are 250,000 tourists in the finals of the Champions League. If each of them spends a thousand dollars on our entire tourism economy, it's 250 million dollars we can lose if we don't provide the right conditions for tourists in our country. That's why I have a big request. We will now support, of course, the ratification of this Convention. But, first of all, there's probably not enough votes. And secondly, we want this vote to show that there is a huge problem with the absence of a systematic state policy on the country's tourist attraction and the security of tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u84	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Borislav Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! 2007, May Moon, Ukraine Cup final. The stadium is played by Dynamo (Kyiv) – "Sachtar" (Donetsk). Dinamo scores goals, ultrascans, and after that, despite the presence at the stadium of President Yushchenko of Ukraine, Minister Zushko of the Ministry of Health and all high-ranking individuals, in the 9th, 10th, 11th sectors introduce the OMON, which infamously beats everyone who is around: pregnant, children, ultras, aliens, everyone. I was there. To say that I was surprised, no, that's what I've seen before. Then Tsuko told us that it was the ultrasonics that provoked the militia to fight. It's a lie, an open lie, and then Tsuko hid in Germany, Germany, and never took responsibility for it. What do I have to say? About what we then saw being manipulated by society. They were told that ultrasonics were bandits. But in 2014, everyone saw ultras, regardless of their pain for Dnipro or Dynamo, for the Shaktar or Black Seaman, they went to Midan, and then they stood next to Ukraine on the front. What am I trying to say? In 2012, when Ukraine accepted Euro-2012, you saw the ultras, you saw that there were no disturbances. And that's why I want to make it clear right now that after you want to vote on this law, no one can use ultras for political purposes, no one can press them at the stadiums, so no one can, thanks to ultras, get some political dividends. Now, on top of that, there are now fewer than 200 deputies present in the hall, which may be the subject of voting. I'm sorry to interrupt the bill or to show that Parliament is ineffective. So I want to point out to you that if you don't vote now, and if everyone, and those who block the rostrum, and those who are in the hall, and those who are now in the towers, come in and vote, there won't be enough votes. Because unfortunately, there are fewer than 200 deputies in the hall. It's a shame, it's a disgrace, and that's what really annoys the Ukrainians. I address all the heads of factions, do something with your subjects. They should appear in the Supreme Council. They have to work. They should go to the committees. And they have to answer to society's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u86	So, colleagues, the final word is invited to the Minister of Youth and Sports Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovich. Then there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Thank you. I've got three minutes, I'll try to answer those questions that I was asked during the performances. Dear colleagues, if you don't remember, I'll remind you that the Ukrainian Act on Security during the Football Games, which you adopted two years ago, is now in force. And we're here, let's say we don't feed the rear, because this law was passed on the basis of this convention, which was signed later, and it's ratified right now. In fact, it works, it's universal, no one signed it under the League of Champions final. But the stars are so hot that right now we can do everything we can to have this game safely. Let me remind you that if we don't ratify this convention, another convention of the Council of Europe will be in place, which we should denounce if we ratify this convention. It is called the European Convention on Violence and Improper Conduct by Spectators during Sports Events, and in particular football matches. Mr. Borislav Bereza, right after 2007 the police. The police, and then the police wouldn't go into the stadium bowl, and now she doesn't have any rights. Because security during football matches is organized by the organizers of these measures, partly by the stadium administration, and partly by the clubs and the federation that organizes and conducts football. So these measures are already in place. I'll be as ashamed as you are if we don't just ratify this convention. There are no sanctions, but how will we be treated by the Council of Europe when it sees that we are unable to ratify a completely non-political document aimed at ensuring security? And I'd like to tell Mr. Danchenk. I'm not a national MP, I stand by those laws and pool lotterys to fund the sport, but I don't vote in this room, you vote and you make the decision here. In fact, the Law on Mecenatihood in Sports stands in the order of the day. I ask everyone to uphold this law. And last but not least, 1200, more than 1200 STDs, with 500,000 of our children, that's about 12 percent, that's a constant figure. I can't support DESCR because it's forbidden by the Budget Code, they're financed by local government. And we're going to develop sports infrastructure, because please go to Poland -- you're going to see a base like this, go to Japan, and you're going to see a similar Olympic training base. And we're going to be developing sports infrastructure in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u88	30 seconds, please. We're done. Is there a need for a final word from the committee? Mrs. Anna? Vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So, please take your seats, get ready for the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. Invite the deputies to the hall. So let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Security and Services in Football Games and Other Sports Measures. The committee proposes to support the whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully, each voice has a weight, do not leave the hall. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[11:42:27]] For 202 Colleagues, I'll be right back. Please come into the hall. Let's see the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 93, "National Front" – 49, "Resistance Block" – 21, "self-help" – 10, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 6, "will of the people" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 5. Colleagues, non-fractional, 17. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'll be right back. I'm asking you to mobilize. I see a number of deputies held up in the hall. Colleagues, so I'm putting the vote to a proposal for a project. to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention (0180). Please take your seats, please vote and please support. So we vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the return. [[11:44:02]] For 204 Colleagues, the next proposal under the Rules is for the Committee to re-read. I think those who abstain will be able to support this proposal. You'll hold it, won't you? That is, those who abstain support the proposal. This is an international covenant. So that we don't show that we're unreliable partners. I'm asking you to support the committee for re-reading. Please enter the hall, take your seats. So, colleagues, I'm now making an offer: to the committee for the re-reading. And I hope that all the responsible MPs will support this proposal. So I'm voting on the next proposal for the Rules: to send the draft Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Security and Services during Football Match and Other Sports Measures (0180) to the Committee for Re-reading, to the Committee for Work. This is a compromise offer. I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Okay. So I would like everyone to vote carefully on the committee for the 0180 revision. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:46:06]] For 215 Colleagues, I have another offer. Come on. Colleagues, let's actually exchange thoughts. The only thing I fear is that if we start exchanging thoughts, we'll be even less. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Take up jobs. Show me the factions, please. "Peter Prashenko's Block" – 87, "The People's Front" – 53, "The Opposition Block" – 21, "The Self-Help" – 14, "The Fatherhood" – 6, "The Will of the People" – 1, "The Rebirth Party" – 5. I've been approached by factions with proposals to put "on the committee for processing." Please invite the deputies to the hall. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. I was asked once again to put "on the committee for processing." This is a compromise proposal that will confirm Ukraine as a trusted international partner, a colleague. And we'll be able to put the vote again in the near future. I ask you all to take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention (0180) with the proposal to return to the committee for re-reading, to the committee for further work. This is a compromise, correct, unifying offer. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Olya, please come back. Olya! Come back, please. We're already voting. Please vote. And please support the proposal 0180, to the committee for re-reading. So every voice, every colleague, every voice. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Each voice has a weight, we vote carefully. Please vote. And please support this proposal. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:49:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. We went back to the law, we went back to the vote. And the decision under the law is already made. So, colleagues, in order not to put the next draft of the law at risk, I'm going to run a rating vote on it. I am putting the next draft of the Act on Denunciation of the European Convention on Violence and Improper Conduct on the part of the audience during sporting activities, and in particular football matches (0151) on the basis of a rating vote. Thus, the rating vote (0151). Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. [[11:50:35]] For 206 We also see a small number of voices. Besides, if we haven't ratified this convention, we can't denounce it. And that's why we're moving on to the next one. So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I want to point out that the next convention doesn't make sense if we haven't accepted it, and that's why it can't stand. The last one we sent to the committee for work. I'm saying this under protocol. We sent the previous convention to the committee for further work. And now we're moving on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine scholarships for students from higher education institutions. This is a decree that unites the entire room. And I'm sure we can get through it effectively. I am asking you to support its consideration by means of a reduced procedure. We don't have much time. I ask everyone to support the consideration of the next ruling on the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:52:05]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education is asking all of you to support the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, it refers to a change, an increase in the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we have, well, in my opinion, a disgraceful situation where the respective names of the Ukrainian President's scholarships, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers are actually 300-400 bracelets larger than the corresponding names for technikums, colleges, universities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, in order to level this situation up, in order to restore respect for the scholarships, the named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Science and Education, which we adopted on December 20, 2017. Dear colleagues, I also appeal to the Radical Party of Ukraine to make a radical request that our students, who will be nominated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also receive your support. Dear fellow students expect a normal attitude from us. In any case, although this is a small change, but it's for our students that the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only deals with the distribution of some gas, oil and so on, but they remember that the main thing in Ukraine is young people, the human capital that should stay in Ukraine and create a future in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, so that we don't waste our time, please support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u92	Thank you for being so concise. And I'm asking everyone to make the most of it, we don't have much time left until the break. From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Anna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u94	My colleagues, do you know when something will change in our country? At a time when sports, families, and young people will be raised, not on Wednesdays, but on Tuesdays or Thursdays, when the full room is ready to vote, that is when we can say that the State is giving due attention to the issue of young people, which is actually less and less in our country. Now we're going to vote and try to vote for the talented representatives of our youth, for the student youth who have personal achievements. And it's always Wednesday, it's always when the deputies are balanced, half of them are not in the hall. So when we hear this from the high rostrums that we support young people, that young people are our future, that there will be no Ukraine without young people, it actually has nothing to do with the state's real attitude towards young people in our country. And in general, if this continues, if we don't actually increase funding for youth lending, if we lose young people at a crazy rate, I think in 10-20 years, Ukraine will not be like that. That's why we're voting now, and in general, I think everyone will do it on their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Since there has been a call to the National Deputies, I'll tell you. Do you know when something will change in the Ukrainian state? When Ukrainian national deputies go to work not only on Tuesdays and Thursdays but also on Wednesdays, as all Ukrainians go to work each day. Because if the military said we weren't going forward on Wednesday and we weren't going to protect the country, no one would have understood it in the hall or in the whole Ukrainian state. Therefore, all deputies should be encouraged to go to work not only on Tuesdays and Thursdays but on all working days, as all Ukrainian citizens do. So, colleagues, this is from the Peter Dust Block of Aresonkov. And I'm asking you to perform in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I continue to say what the Head of the Supreme Council has just said. It's very important -- both attendance and personal voting. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when it comes, in fact, to discussing and making decisions on issues involving young people, sports, education, some of the deputies continue to leave the session room, there are more important business or other matters. I would like, Sir Head, to have the vote for this ruling under special control as well. Whoever voted really supports the talented young people today. I am confident that all factions will take part in the vote, and I urge everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u97	So, colleagues, in two minutes, there will be a decision-making process. Now I'm going to all the factions, to invite MPs into the working room to perform their direct function. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking you to let the deputies know that they're coming to their workplaces. I'm giving you two minutes to come out of the Radical Party, Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u98	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. And there will be order in Ukraine if we not only call for law enforcement but also do it ourselves. Notice, fellow officers, we're standing by the rostrum, we're blocking the second day to put the bill of day into order, 4442. 4442! Not 7418. That's three thousand bills ago. We demand that a daily draft law for the protection of the Chernobylites be put in order. The important questions are both football and sports and talented young, many important questions. But, dear fellows, the Passover festivals are almost over. On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, we all visited cemeteries, honored our relatives. How many are there who have protected us from the peaceful atom that put out the Chernobyl tragedy? And you saw their relatives. They cry bitterly. From what? From the fact that they're not needed by the state. Ukraine doesn't need them, the state doesn't help them. And to restore even the benefits they had, you have to block the rostrum. We're told that you vote for it, vote for it. Let's vote. Andry Volodymyrovich, secure our right to legislative initiative. Introduce Bill 4442 for Parliament tomorrow. Let's take a quick look at it, vote, restore the rights of the Chernobyls. And we'll keep talking about football, and about youth, and about security, and everything else. Dear colleagues, is there even one person in the room who is opposed to getting the benefits back? You see, there isn't. So let's do what we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u99	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you not to come out of the hall, all of you, into the hall. Colleagues, this is a question that unites the entire hall. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Please return from your bed and take your seats. Olena, please. So I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships to higher education students on the increase in the size of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships, regulation number 7418. The Committee's proposal: on the basis and in general. Please vote carefully and responsibly to support this decision. So we vote, we vote, we vote, colleagues, please support, please vote, we vote. [[12:01:51]] For 190 Let's see the factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 47, "Resistance Block" – 11, "self-help" – 15, "Radical Party" – 2, "Fathership" – 6, "will of the people" – 6, "Party "Resurrection" – 4. I bet you, fellows, you're on your way back, who couldn't vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Rule 7418. Please vote and please support. Please support the decision, please vote in favour. [[12:02:37]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Hall did not decide to return to Project Decree 7418. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. Please return to the hall at 12:35, and we will begin our consideration of draft Law 6746. I ask everyone to return to the hall at 12:35 to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u100	The time allocated for the break is 12:35. We continue our work. And as I said before, we are moving on to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the effectiveness of conduct in cases of infringement of economic competition legislation. The bill is very large, and according to our good tradition we will be able to talk it out today, and tomorrow we will be able to make a decision. And for us, it'll be an opportunity tomorrow not to waste a lot of time going through all the rights. Today, I'm sure the right-wing authors are in the hall, and we can have a full discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. Please come into the hall, especially the right-wing authors, and get ready for work, please. So we are going to consider the next issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and improve the effectiveness of enforcement in cases of violations of economic competition legislation (No. 6746). It's a second reading, it doesn't need a special procedure. And I invite you to report to the Committee on Economic Policy Member Victoria Yuriyovna. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u101	Thank you. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to point out that in our second reading today we are considering an extremely important bill with you, because it refers to honest, transparent operators who want to conduct their activities in a transparent way in the market, who are fighting for us to have rules of free competition. It also applies to you, consumers who are sometimes forced to buy goods at excessive prices, at unwarranted prices that are sometimes forced to buy goods that are imposed on them by manufacturers. This applies to the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee, which is to develop competition, and the same applies to the cessation of infringements by those operators who abuse their rights in the market, who enter into secret conspiracies and who bear no responsibility for it. I want to say that this legislative initiative was born early in 2014, when, together with lawyers who specialize in competition law at the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine, we saw former leaders of the Antimonopoly Committee, in fact, abuse their powers as businesses were blackmailed, as some of the violations in the market were closed, as there were no cases of violations of economic competition legislation to the end. And those who actually had a negative impact on competition in their activities were not responsible. You know, I'd like to draw your attention to some of the cases that I've already discovered as a national deputy, using my parliamentary powers, the mechanisms of inquiry and appeals. Former Antimonopoly committee chiefs allowed violations, such as those related to trade distortions, investigation, imposition of huge fines for these violations, which should have occurred, and then, by their own decisions, abolished and reduced the fines. In particular, I am aware of cases where such violations occurred. fines were imposed, and in fact, the size of these fines was originally 50 million dollars per farm subject that distorted the results of the trade, but after the former Antimonopoly committee had reviewed its own decision, this fine amounted to 50 million dollars, attention, decreased to 100,000 dollars. I've been collecting all this data, and I've been passing it on to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to make sure the National Anti-Corruption Bureau detects it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u102	Five more minutes, ladies, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u103	I've given all this information, and I think it's unacceptable. And that's why this bill was actually born. Because this project, on the one hand, we want to give due respect to the rights of those involved in the matter, to ensure impartiality and objectivity in dealing with matters. And actually, on the other hand, to provide effective procedures for investigating violations in the field of economic competition legislation that are not currently available. We think that enhancing this capacity to protect rights will also be a factor that will require more professional and quality enforcement, improve the soundness of the decision-making of the Antimonopoly Committee. And then, of course, this will contribute to the effectiveness of the system of protection of economic competition and to the prevention of unjustified interference in the freedom of entrepreneurial activity. This bill is proposed, and in fact the final text that has been agreed upon and today is proposed to you for consideration by the committees, is proposed, firstly, to set the deadlines during which violations of economic competition legislation should be completed; to ensure that the person in question has the right to know, in respect of whom the infringement is suspected; the right of the person to use the services of the translator; to ensure that the person involved in the case has the right to know the materials of the case and all the evidence on which the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee is based; to secure the legal person's right to comment and comment on the explanations of his employees who were not authorized to provide such explanations on behalf of such a legal person; to establish the persons who are taking part in the case, to submit to the Commission's office. This is, by the way, the first novel proposed in this bill. To improve the discharge procedure for anticompetitive concerted action between competitors; to establish rules for dispute resolution in cartel cases, so-called settlement. I'm going to put a stop to this, but I think it's the most important acquisition of this bill. This institution exists in the European Union, and in fact it will provide an opportunity to reduce the length of cartel investigations, I hope, by the Antimonopoly Committee. In the European Union, we know that the introduction of such an institution has significantly reduced the length of investigations, since the overall length of investigation in the European Union can be 5 years, and there are known cases where some cases have been investigated for 9 years. And after the dispute settlement institute was established, the duration of the case investigation decreased considerably and was an average of 15 months. We also propose this bill to provide some improvements to the rights of the person involved in the matter, in fact, in ensuring the realization of their rights. Because any person who is involved in handling infringement cases should have enough time to prepare their own defense. The project also proposes to provide conditions for the effective implementation of the decision-making body of the Antimonopoly Committee of the right of appeal before a court of law. I want to say that the working group has been working on amendments for more than one day, and we're going to have more than six meetings in the working group, and I really hope that we've made a qualitative legislative initiative. The bill received 121 amendments, of which 36 were included, 12 were partially taken into account, and the amendments were tabled by six national deputies. I am very grateful to these people's deputies, who, in fact, by their amendments, I believe have improved our legislative initiative that despite such complex material, they were not concerned with the initiative, they understand that the initiative is for every consumer and every business that wants to work in a transparent and honest way. So let's move on to the amendments, I hope we get a good legislative initiative on the way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u104	Thank you. So let's move on to the amendments. I'll call the amendments that are rejected. If anyone insists on the amendment and puts it on confirmation by raising their hand, I will give my word. The 1st correct is rejected. The author does not insist. 2nd, Sažko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u105	Before paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of Section I of the bill, the text of the bill should be supplemented by new sub-items of the new content: "In article 35 of the law, the second part of the bill should be inserted as follows: In the case of infringements of competition law, the Antimonopoly Committee collects, analyzes, evaluates documents, obtains explanations of persons who take part in the case, draw conclusions on each situation, draw conclusions on the behaviour and impact of persons on the goods market, assesses and concludes on competition in the reporting market, influences the conditions of competition, determines the existence of a causal link between the conduct of persons, establishes the existence of guilt in the actions of persons who take part in the case. Please bet on confirmation. Oh, vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Will you comment, Mrs. Victoria? Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u107	The amendment was rejected by the Economic Policy Committee, resulting from the following. First of all, the honourable MP who proposes the amendment is proposing an excessive detail of the actions of the Antimonopoly Committee bodies when they consider cases of violations of economic competition legislation. For example, I would like to point out that it is proposed to set up an amendment that the AMCA authorities collect, analyse, evaluate documents, other information that is evidence in the case. But first of all, Article 7 of the Antimonopoly Committee Act defines the authorization of the Antimonopoly Committee, and from among them is the right to require the necessary information from the subjects. And agree, it will be strange to establish that the committee requires information, but then does not analyse it, and it is a duty to establish it at the level of the law. It is clear that when such information is received, the committee will analyze and draw appropriate conclusions. So this kind of over-detail, it's unnecessary, and that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Please put to the vote Amendment 2. [[12:50:04]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 4, National Deputy Sažko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u109	I insist. Sergey Sažko, 59th Donetskin constituency. I insist on taking this amendment fully into account, as it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u110	Is the committee going to comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u111	I'd like to ask my colleague to pay attention to the amendment. This amendment suggests that the order to initiate a case or to refuse a case is accepted within 45 days or in some cases within 90 days. I'd like to inform the honourable national MP who was making this amendment that we now have a lower legal order just to respond to the Antimonopoly Committee and to issue a corresponding order for the initiation of the case. In particular, it has been established that an application for a violation is being considered for 30 calendar days and that it is not for 90 days, and 60 days are anticipated. So why increase these lines to actually allow the committee to respond to the violation, we don't understand. That is why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Please put to the vote Amendment 4. [[12:51:42]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 6, People's Deputy Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I thank the drafters of the bill and the committee that worked on this bill. At the same time, I draw attention to the inappropriate assessments and decisions of the committee that refer to the text of the bill. The first edition suggested that infringements of competition law would be closed or considered for at least 3 years. I proposed my amendment, and I think it's right to reduce this term to 1 year. Because we all understand that these things are business, they're people, they're money, they're taxes and they're prices, because this Antimonopoly committee is valuable to every consumer. I insist that it should be 1 year, although I point out that the committee, though I wrote that I rejected this amendment, but weighed it and partially counted it, because they reduced it, reduced it from 3 years to 2. Please place it on confirmation and set it up for 1 year. Too bad there are no deputies in the room, but I hope in the second reading report before the vote some amendments will be announced and voted together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u114	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u115	I also agree with the need that the terms should be as minimal as possible and as Mrs. Prodan's amendment. But what I want to say is that during the discussion we came out of the need for cases that the Antimonopoly Committee was considering categorizing. Accordingly, we have set a general deadline for dealing with cases of misconduct at the age of 2. We realized that they don't even need to be examined at 1 year, and they need to be looked at for six months. And we've established that, in particular, cases involving protection against unfair competition or failure to provide information to the committee, or the provision of incomplete information or false information, or the imposition of obstacles to the Antimonopoly Committee's employees, you don't even have to investigate them for a year. Thus, six months have been set aside for these matters. But there are some very important and difficult cases to investigate that even in the European Union are being investigated for 5-10 years. And that's true of cartels in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u116	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u117	And that's what this is all about. And for them, we even increased the term by five years. Why did we do that? Because the concept of the bill goes on to say that if the Antimonopoly Committee has failed to complete the matter during the period, the matter is closed. And we would very much not want to be inadvertent operators who are violators of the relevant legislation on the protection of economic competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:55:01]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 8, People's Deputy Sold. What is the correction? To confirm 7th. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u119	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the committee has taken into account 7 amendments regarding the deadlines for consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Affairs, and has been reduced from 3 years to 2 years, and in principle that is a fair offer. Nevertheless, I would like to place on confirmation that the Supreme Council of Ukraine confirms that we are trying to shorten the deadlines, and I support that. But now I have another question for the chairman. Just taking advantage of an opportunity, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stepped out of the hall. We have a daily order today, a well-established agenda. We've considered question 7418. Then came question 6467, this is a parliamentary hearing on a very important issue, medical education. Explain to me, on what basis did you pass through three bills under the Rules of Procedure Act and now consider this bill in a second reading? It's a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Decisions are acts of a procedural nature, and they can be considered at any time, i.e. to put them in order of the day. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Okay. Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 5 of that editorial that is being proposed, articles 37-1, which my colleague, Victoria Pteshnik, has already mentioned. This rule is that if the decision is not taken by the Antimonopoly Committee during the time limit, the case is closed because of failure to commit a violation. I don't think such an editorial can be allowed to vote at all, and with that wording we don't have the right to vote at all. Because, in this way, any delay, any corruption on the part of the members of the Antimonopoly Committee, will not only relieve responsibility in this matter, but also protect against opening matters in the future, because closure is due to failure to commit violations. I insist on confirmation and will insist that the reporter insists before the vote that this paragraph be deleted from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u123	Thank you for your observation. But I would like to point out that if we don't actually have the rule that after the end of a specific period for investigation by the Antimonopoly Committee, if we don't have such a standard, we're actually nullifying the idea of predicting specific timelines for dealing with cases by the Antimonopoly Committee. Then the committee will say, well, what you've predicted is that for two years we have to investigate the case, we don't have any responsibility for it, we haven't made it. And the matter will continue, and appropriate investigations will continue. The deadlines and closures behind the lack of evidence are just an incentive for the Antimonopoly Committee to work effectively and artificially without prolonging these investigations and not trolling the business. That is why we offered to close these cases. But there were specific adequate lines. And I'm pointing out that for cartels it's 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u124	Thank you. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u125	For cartels, it's five years. This is an entirely sufficient time frame for the committee to investigate the matter, collect the entire evidence base, and continue to make its decision accordingly. But you can't just keep saying that, because in practice there are cases where a committee has been actually investigating the case for years, when business has actually been getting requests for information for years. They're the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u126	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:59:48]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 13, National MP. 10th, please confirm, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the bill is applicable, it is in principle positive, and there is a point that cases of violations of economic competition legislation should be dealt with within 1 year of the date of adoption of the order for the commencement of the case, that is, we optimize those processes. But I want to speak to the chairman right now. I have no claim to Mrs. Oksana Siroid, but I have a claim to the head of the Supreme Council. Please tell us, on what basis are we currently considering this bill, if we are to consider, on a daily basis, a draft of Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on Medical Education? Well, why are we yelling here, and the Prime Minister is talking about health reform, and we've been holding the health education decree since 2017? I can tell you that what's in that decree is unknown, whether it's relevant or not, and we're not even listening to it, this decree, and we're violating Ukraine's Rules Act again. I don't have a head. I have a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? The reporter insists. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u129	I'd like to comment. I don't understand why we should insist on voting on this amendment if you've actually determined that the amendment is positive. I want to say that we've tried to categorize things and say that the most complicated things have to be dealt with by the committee in an adequate time frame and offered them five years. There are things for which five years and even two years is long. So it was determined that the committee should make its decision within 1 year. So I'm asking you very much not to fail this amendment, because it's really positive and it's contributing to the development of competition, and leaving it in the body, I hope, of the future law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear National Deputy Shurm, would you like to meet the committee? Okay. Thank you. Next amendment number 13. Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u131	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u132	Don't insist, okay. 16th National MP Sažko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u133	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency. I propose that section I, paragraph 3, of the bill be drafted as follows: "Article 39. The persons who take part in the case, first of all, are the persons who take part in the case is the defendant, the third person." And I insist on putting it to a vote because all these amendments were to improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u134	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u135	The committee rejected the amendment. Because the concept proposed by the MP of defining "third parties" is not very practical. Thus, there is no need to include persons who have information about the violation, in fact, as third parties. On the basis of current legislation, the Antimonopoly Committee has the right to receive information about a violation from persons who own it, because the Antimonopoly Committee can send its requests to anyone. And it is unnecessary to point out that a person’s data is a third person, to engage, to complicate the investigation of cases of wrongdoing, and to duly delay them on the part of unscrupulous offenders. So we decided not to support this amendment, and the committee is proposing to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes, please, let's vote. [[13:04:17]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 27, People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u137	Semenha Roman, "Unification Self-Help" faction, a really important bill, but it contains very separate conflicting norms. I'd like to support my colleague, Oxana, on terms, quite a point. With my own permission, I would like to point out that the amendment refers to the amount of information that parties have the right to know in order to give their objections or observations before the Antimonopoly Committee takes a final decision on the matter. I propose that participants be given the opportunity to familiarize themselves with documents that constitute an internal service correspondence of the Antimonopoly Committee bodies, reporting notes and others, if these documents are used by a committee to prove that there is a violation or confirmation of circumstances that are to be demonstrated. This amendment, by the way, corresponds to the rule enshrined in article 15, paragraph 3, of the EU Rules of Procedure since 2004. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u138	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u139	I would like to point out that the law, the bill itself provides for the right to be familiar with the material of the matter. That earlier this right, in fact, some representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee had abused it. So in this bill, we have laid down a general rule: the right of the subject to familiarize himself with the material of the matter, with everyone, to make copies of it, to make copies of it, to make copies, to make statements, except for information with limited access, that is, confidential information, commercial information, or that contains a commercial or other secret. The notion of a commercial secret, another secret, information with limited access, is actually a concept governed by article 21 of the Information Act. Therefore, there is no need to complicate the bill and to pass on the standards that already exist in other legislation. That is why we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u140	Thank you. You insist on voting. Please put to the vote. [[13:06:43]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 31. People's deputy to Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u141	As with Amendment 27, Amendment 31 refers to the determination of the amount of information that a person has the right to know in order to give his objections before taking a decision by the Antimonopoly Committee. Now, however, it is confidential information that is presented to the Antimonopoly Committee by another party in the matter. The application is based on the fact that the bill is much narrower, it is unclear why, compared to European Union law, the right of reply in the matter of access to information is being considered. If we already grant this right, why are we narrowing the bill down compared to the law that is being applied in the European Union? The bill provides that a person who claims to have been brought before the Antimonopoly Committee may submit a document containing confidential and confidential information to confirm the circumstances set out in his application. In this case, the bill fully restricts the right of reply to that part of the document, which logically contains the applicant's confidential and commercial information. Please support me, because I think this is a very important moment that can affect the final decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u142	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u143	I mean, the previous one. similar to the previous amendment of the People’s Deputy of Semimenha, the amendment also proposes to provide for a procedure for access to certain types of information. But at the same time, the order of submission and publication, and the provision of information on restricted access, is already defined by existing legislation, such as those laid down in the Rules for dealing with infringements of antitrust legislation, for example, please see paragraph 18 of the mentioned rules, where it is clearly provided that information with restricted access, as it appears, is a separate sealed envelope, on each page it is stated that it is information with restricted access, which is indicated there and further clearly specified by the specific order of access. We don't think that this is the norm that you're proposing that it should be regulated at the level of the law. It's the norm of the legal regulations that are in force today, and we don't see any restrictions on operators here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:09:20]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Thirty-two? 29th. Please. I don't see who. Firemark, please, National MP. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Firemark.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, as head of the committee on antimonopoly policy, will note the need to guarantee an independent authority. [[Unheard]] This question is not taken into account because of Minfin’s warnings and the need for additional budget allocations for posts. So there was a compromise that I wanted to read under the stenogram with further consideration. Please, under the transcript. Chapter II of the bill, "The End and Transitional Positions", is to be supplemented by a new paragraph in the following text. In paragraph 2 of paragraph 3, chapter II of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (No. 1774-8) of 06.12.2016, replace the following text with the words and figures of the "living minimum for working persons.""..
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u146	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u147	for working persons established on 1 January of the calendar year, starting on 1 January 2017."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Committee, comment, please. That's the 29th amendment it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u149	I understand that the reporter does not insist on confirming this amendment, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u150	No, it doesn't. Okay. Thank you. Next, 32nd. Please, National Deputy Sažko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u151	Sažko, 59 constituency. I urge that this amendment be made fully, as I believe it will provide a more extensive list in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u152	Thank you. Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u153	I want to point out that the amendment was partially taken into account. By the way, it completely duplicates the first reading, except for part one of this article. The second reading included a new edition of part one of article 41-1, which was proposed by the national deputy. In view of amendment 35, part one of the first article is supplemented by a new paragraph. The new paragraph stipulates that if conditions are established that may contain signs of violations of economic competition legislation, the authorities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee may carry out non-planned checks. This provision was added for such reasons that in certain cases the AMCA authorities need to promptly confirm or correct the presence in the activities of the subject of a violation of the law. In order to establish such circumstances, there is such a tool as carrying out checks that are off - schedule. All the suggestions that were made in this amendment are reflected in the project's version to the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u154	Thank you. You insist, don't you? No, you don't. Okay. Next amendment 36th. People's deputy to Semimenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the next block refers to 36, 37, and 39. I would ask the presiding officer to give me a moment to speak on three lines. The amendments are designed to protect the interests of economic operators, more simply to protect business in the conduct of checks by representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee. The point is that on the basis of the information provided by the bill, it will not be possible to have a clear understanding of what is the subject matter of the inspection. As a result, he will be deprived of the ability to assess what action the members of the commission are legitimate and what goes beyond their authority in matters of verification. Therefore, we propose that the following information be added to the authority of the State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee on the conduct of the verification: First. A list of questions, circumstances, and facts to be found during the examination. The other one. It's very important. Start and end of test. And the third. List of objects that are allowed to be checked. This will give you an object of farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u156	Please give two more minutes to make three adjustments immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u157	This will give the business some weight to prevent members from exceeding the commission’s order of inspection. For example, the head of an enterprise will have the legal right not to allow the officials of the Antimonopoly Committee to carry out checks in case the members of the boards have a significant deadline for carrying out checks or any other premises. I'm convinced that since similar standards are also in force in legislation on checks in other areas of activity, this bill cannot narrow down the right to protection here, namely, business. So I'm asking you to support the 36, 37 and 39 issues that are specifically aimed at protecting business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u158	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u159	I want to point out that the checks of the Antimonopoly Committee are different, and the essence of them and actually the task is different from those of all other so-called control bodies. This is not a test of the DFS authorities, which can take place there, of course, for weeks, it is a test that is being carried out, and even in European legislation there is such a notion of testing actually at dawn when antimonopoly committee employees suddenly come, because they suspect that there is a sign of cartel activity in the actions of a particular subject, namely, the most dangerous infringement in the field of competition law. It's a secret conspiracy. This is when it is most likely that the agreement between the subjects is not fixed on paper. Therefore, if we add your corrections and consider them, there is such a fear that the subjects will abuse their rights, allowing them to avoid such sudden checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u160	Please give the committee two more minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u161	Do not allow the Antimonopoly Committee to carry out such tests. What I'm saying is that you can't have a checkup period. Although in practice it doesn't last a week there, as you can probably think from the analogy of the tests of the DFS. This is usually a test that is carried out day after day because it has the main task, the main essence of which is the suddenness and receipt of all the materials that may be hidden by the host. In addition, it may also be impossible to describe and identify a specific list of issues, since if there is a secret conspiracy, the committee can only suspect signs of a violation. For example, fuel prices have increased. And the committee understands that there may be a secret conspiracy in the appropriate suppliers of this fuel, but it does not understand what information to look for, because such a conspiracy can be fixed in a variety of ways, including through oral arrangements. Thus, it is absolutely impossible, and it would not be very desirable, for operators, potential violators to abuse their rights and thus have the opportunity to prevent the Antimonopoly Committee from detecting and disclosing cartels.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, we will now vote on three amendments. Please, 37 revisions. Please vote. The supporter of Amendment 36, please vote. [[13:18:33]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Amendment 37. The supporter of Amendment 37, please vote. [[13:18:51]] For-48 The decision is not taken. And Amendment 39. Please vote on who supports this amendment. [[13:19:08]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 38 that we missed. People's MP, Oxana Prodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I support my amendment to Roman Semenah's proposal, because I'm actually very sorry that the legislator here is going two ways. Either the committee is lined up to write out questions that should be mentioned in the inspection order, or the committee deliberately creates opportunities for corruption of the Antimonopoly Committee representatives during the inspection. Because regardless of when the check takes place at dawn or at night or at work, the person who sends the Antimonopoly staff to be tested clearly gives him the task of carrying out certain activities. That's what it can't be without. Similarly, whether it goes on a test day or a week, it is necessary to indicate the time frame and possibilities not only of authorization, but also the framework within which the representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee should work. And I think that if we don't vote on the additional standards that are provided for by both my amendment and the amendments made by Roman Semenoch, that would mean that the committee will deliberately create opportunities for the Antimonopoly workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u164	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u165	Thank you very much. There are opportunities to abuse the law that will give corruption opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u166	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u167	I'm sure there's no corruption here. Mrs. Prodan's amendment is essentially the same as the amendment 36. And as I have noted, it is not possible to establish a comprehensive list of issues and circumstances that are to be examined at the time of the inspection. Please do not confuse the existence of signs of conspiracies that are secret, that no one knows about them, only those who agreed, who may not have fixed it in writing, who may have led by oral negotiations. Do not confuse, please, with the activity of the subject and the verification, such as the tax authorities where all the information is fixed, and where the tax authorities clearly understand what documentation they need, what contracts, what payments they need to be required for what list. It's been a while. So if we support the correction to set a clear criterion, a clear, comprehensive list of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u168	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u169	That means that the operators will say: you didn't say that you need access to the protocol, there, let's say, during this period of acceptance or not protocol, and some of our correspondence. And that's the reason they're going to say no. And then you don't. And I want to point out that verification is the only possible tool for investigating secret plots. In fact, there are no other instruments of such a committee for secret conspiracies. And it's not about Ukrainian legislation, it's about looking at the legislation of any European country, there's no such requirement for a competition authority to be tested anywhere. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u170	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:22:55]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 41. 40, 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u171	Well, I have to disagree with Mrs. Victoria, with all due respect. Note, then, what we are talking about. Today, we are regulating the law as to whether a business right should be challenged if, for example, an entity comes from a State that initiates an inspection, for example, an indication of what premises should be checked for a particular subject. You see, any organ that can perform a test tells us that its tests are specialized, exceptional, what ends up in practice, we know. Let's not assume that any bill in this room narrowed down business rights to its own protection. So it's about editing. At the legislative level, I suggest that we determine which documents should be presented to the manager of the enterprise before the start of the inspection. Well, agree that's perfectly normal, where the tests are done. Otherwise, a sub-legislative situation may be unfavourable for the subject under review. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u172	Thank you. The committee would like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u173	Again, this detail will clearly lead to abuse, abuse of rights by those subjects who will be tested. It won't be possible to reveal a secret conspiracy. It is also secret because no one knows about it, and it is not clear where and what to look for, whether there are specific documents that support a secret conspiracy, whether they are not there, or whether the fixation has taken place by means of audio recordings, or whether it may be necessary to look for documents, or whether the subjects have met and decided to divide the markets, and have recorded it. Or they may simply have agreed verbally, and we need to look for other signs to confirm this oral arrangement. That's why the committee didn't support the amendment, and I'm asking the hall not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Please put to the vote. [[13:25:20]] For-50 The decision is not taken. And then there's amendment number 41. People's deputy to Semimenach. No, it doesn't. 42. Don't insist. 45. Don't insist. 43. It's written that counts. But I'd like you to turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Sold Oksani.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u175	Thank you very much. Oksana Ivanovna, I don't know what to ask for this 43 amendment. It's actually written that counts. And I would very much ask that maybe you, Oksana Ivanovna, perhaps the committee, in the final edition of the second reading, count as you wrote. Because they left the edition of the first reading to the second reading, writing "accounted for." And what did they leave behind? They left the right for the members of the board to remove evidence, to arrest them, or to place them in custody, that is, without trial, allowing the members of the commission to be removed and arrested for inspection. That's why he's going to assign a friend. the last table before the second reading change, or the committee does something. They wrote that they counted, that's right, but it's different in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u176	There is indeed an error in the text. either a committee error, or an error in the text. I'd like the committee to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u177	So I want to say, yes, really, it's probably a mistake made by the committee secretariat. This amendment was indeed rejected. And it was rejected from the next motivation. Today, please look at article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. This article provides for the possibility for the Anti-Monopoly Committee to arrest the evidence and accordingly to come to the premises, and for a specific procedure for obtaining it, including court rulings, when the Anti-Monopoly Committee comes to the premises to which the decision of the court requires access. We did not make any changes to article 44. And this right is guaranteed, provided. And that's why the article you're proposing, or paragraph 5 of part three of article 41-1, which you're proposing to exclude, doesn't in any way give a new right to the Antimonopoly Committee. More, if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u178	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u179	If a court order is required to have access to a specific room for the Antimonopoly Committee, in accordance with article 44 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition, this will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u180	Thank you. Please. Put to the vote? No, it's not. Thank you. Next amendment number 45, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. 46. Don't insist. Amendment number 47. People's MP sold to Oxana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u181	Two seconds, 47th, no. My amendment was that the absence of subjects representing the subject in the premises or other properties owned or used by the subject under examination would not be an obstacle to their inspection. Today, in an editorial that is proposed for voting, if the premises without the owner, without the owner’s representative, can still be checked. I propose to remove this possibility and conduct a test only in the presence of the owner's representative. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u182	Once again, what are you putting on confirmation? 47th, for backup. Please, 47 revisions. We vote who supports this amendment. Committee, please. If you'll excuse the committee's comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u183	I would like to point out that the draft of the bill, which is proposed for the second reading, provides that there should be a checker’s supervisor or another person authorized by him, have the right to be present during the inspection. However, the lack of data in the premises that are actually checked is not an obstacle to their inspection. Why so, it is noted. The law given by the bill indicates that the Antimonopoly Committee cannot restrict the supervisor or other representatives to participate in the inspection and be present. But, on the other hand, if he wants to abuse such a right and just make sure that the check does not take place, it is obvious that the manager will simply go and say that please do not check the subject of management, because I am not. We want to balance, on the one hand, the right of the subject to be present during the inspection, on the other hand, without allowing the exercise of such a right. So we rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u184	Thank you. Please put to the vote, Amendment 47. [[13:30:49]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 48. People's deputy of Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u185	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers and listeners to me are one of the key rights of this bill. The draft law confers a very broad mandate on the members of the inspection committee. For example, they will have the right to unimpeded access to premises, transport facilities, or other property owned or used by the subject, to storage sites, and will be able to request the head of the officials of the subject, who will be checked, oral and written explanations, to be able to remove documents. Note, colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority also cites parallels between the powers of members of the Antimonopoly Committee and the powers vested in law enforcement officials who carry out criminal conduct. We recently adopted Bill 7275, the so-called mask show stop, whose main idea was to prevent or reduce the possible misuse of law enforcement personnel in search of complete video fixation of all investigative actions. Please add half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u186	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u187	That's why we consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u188	30 seconds, please. Turn on the microphone, please, National Deputy Semenesi, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u189	That's why we consider it necessary to introduce a similar standard into Bill 6746. For this purpose, I suggest that the subject under examination or another person authorized by him be given the right to determine without hindrance the process of checking or each individual action by means of sound and video recording techniques, without hindering attention, in doing so. Well, really, I don't understand the logic of the committee. Please explain to Mrs. Victoria why the obvious norm that we have here with the pianist at the request of the Prime Minister was adopted in Bill 7275, why you are applying here, in fact, narrowing down business law already within the framework of the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u190	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u191	I'll explain. So first of all, this project is the idea that very broad powers are given to representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee in the field of verification, this thesis is completely wrong. On the contrary, today, article 44 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition gives us a lot of rights, all of those rights, to the things you've listed. But then the issue of verification is regulated by regulations that are approved by the Antimonopoly Committee itself and its administration. That's why we've touched on the issue of verifications here, in order to limit the Anti-Monopoly Committee in determining its orders and to establish a specific framework for carrying out checks. With regard to your amendment, I would like to point out that subjects are not prohibited from checking. The inspection takes place in their territory, and the absence of such a direct ban on performing acts means that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u192	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u193	means that the subjects have the right to do so. But in the editorial that you're suggesting that the head of an object has the right to unhinder the process of checking there with sound recordings and so on, without impeding such a check, we believe that it can lead to what the Antimonopoly Committee will then say that you're obstructing the check, and therefore you can't do video, audio, and so on. If we don't regulate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u194	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u195	If we do not regulate it, it is the right of the owner. Obviously, it's not just the manager or the authorized person that can do this fixation, but any subject. Otherwise, the Antimonopoly Committee will ask the supervisor to confirm or trust that the manager is authorized to conduct the video and so on and so forth. And that's exactly what's going to lead to the abuse of antitrust organs, so we didn't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u196	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:35:32]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 50. Please, Oxana People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, this amendment, again, continues to clarify the credentials of the representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee who are going to check what they should mention in the protocol. And I insist that they point out in the protocol, in the test report, who exactly did they give the verification orders to. I insist that a copy of the inspection order be made available to the subject in an orderly manner. Similarly, I insist that when checked, when checked, they should not give a copy of the order, but the original, because it's actually the document that appears to the subject, not to anyone. And another thing that's in this amendment. The bill does not give the right to charge at all the beginning of the examination, says that the results of the conduct can be sued, and that the law or unlawfully initiated the bill prohibits the prosecution. And I insist that this right be granted by this 50 amendment. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u198	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u199	The granting of the subject the right to complain about the initiation of the checks would lead to the fact that the individual subjects of the farm would be misused of that right and would be given the exact speedy approval of the court, which would be prohibited for a certain possibility by an agreement to carry out the inspection or to stop the inspection. And while this check is halted, operators will simply dispose of all these secret agreements, from all the protocols that you have just confirmed that there is a violation of the protection of economic competition legislation. Clearly, then, this cannot be predicted. In addition, the limits of information that are included in the protocol proposed by the author of the amendment are of particular importance. In our view, important issues such as which of the representatives of the host subject received a copy of the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u200	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u201	This should be noted in the protocol. Therefore, this requirement must be provided for at the level of the law. Actually, that's why we're proposing to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u202	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:38:25]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number 51, Oxana Prodan People's Deputy. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u203	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u204	52. Don't insist. 54th National MP Sažko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u205	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency. This amendment concerns the non-admission of a corruption component in the investigation of the case, namely: the State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the head of the Regional Division of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, members of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine's Antimonopoly Committee for Decision-making in the case, as well as the expert and translators who are obliged to make a self-requirement in the event of a situation or circumstances that may raise doubts about its impartiality, particularly in view of the circumstances provided for by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, and the potential violation of the principles and obligations set out in the Law on State Service. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u206	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u207	Article 41, with mark 2, provides for a new institution, drainages that are claimed by the State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee, there, and others. What is suggested by the correction to predict? By amendment, the National MP proposes to establish a potential breach of the principles and obligations provided for in the Ukrainian State Service Act as a basis for disqualification. I would like to point out that, according to part three of article 3 of the State Service Act, the act of this law does not extend to the head and members of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Thus, it is impossible to apply to the state-authorized law of Ukraine on State Service. And obviously the amendment is not logical, so we rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u208	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:40:56]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 58. People's deputy to Semimenach. Don't insist. 59. Please, Oxana People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, the 59th, the 62nd and the 70th amendments, they refer to one: consultations in the investigation of violations of economic competition legislation. The representative of the committee has so far been very good at rejecting our amendments with Roman Semenha, arguing that they create opportunities (like) for tax payers, for subjects subject to checks, to protect themselves, or to protect themselves. In fact, the amendments we proposed were procedural and created opportunities to avoid corruption on the part of the Antimonopoly Committee staff. These same amendments, 59, 62, and 70, introduce a new opportunity to consult the control body with the entity that it controls in order to reach agreement and avoid responsibility. So I have a question: if we've rejected all of the previous amendments that give us clear conditions for verification, why are we creating a mechanism for corruption deals? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u210	Thank you. Three repairs. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u211	I categorically disagree that the Institute for Consultations, in which it is prescribed, is an opportunity for some corrupt agreement. I know very clearly from my practice how a consultation took place when individual subjects were given so - called advice for extra fees and some subjects were unable to reach out to the Antimonopoly Committee. That's why we've made this consultation mechanism very clear, which is not, of course, the phone is not available. We've put in place a mechanism that provides a written way for these consultations to be fully fixed. In particular, when there is written concern about the holding of consultations, it remains where the purpose of the consultations is reported, and the main issues of the subject are reported by the host. Next. As a result of the consultations, there are no more or less corruption risks that someone has, of course, met with representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u212	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u213	There's a protocol that we're going to write down: "In a five-day period, it is signed by the Antimonopoly Committee, it joins the case materials." So it's going to be a complete fixation of this kind of consultation. Before that, it's a phone law, it's a meeting with committee representatives. So far it's a complete fixation. And the documents that are added are part of the relevant infringement case. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u214	Thank you. I will now be supporting three amendments in the midst of the People's Deputy Oksana Sold. Amendment number 59 first. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:44:33]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next. Please. At 62nd and 70th, please give the committee a word for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll be back, don't worry. At the 62nd and 70th Committee, please give me another two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u215	I want to point out one more thing about actually having these consultations, I think it's important. Because the proposed consultation procedure is designed according to the existing rules in force in the European Union. In particular, the European Commission's plan for dealing with infringements of articles 101 and 102 of the EU's Treaty of Functioning contains a recommendation on the stages of investigation during which the antitrust body is to meet with the replies. This is a literal quote. That's why we took this tool, which we believe and which is actually in the European Union, aimed at improving quality, improving the effectiveness of the decision-making process of the Antimonopoly Committee, and which is essential for discussion by persons of actual, economic, legal grounds for the infringement. The whole mechanism that we're proposing as a fixation, it's supposed to make it impossible for certain corruption elements that have existed so far, including the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u216	Thank you. So the next amendment that we're going to vote on is 62, then 70, and we're going to go back to the previous amendments. Please vote in favour of Amendment 62. [[13:46:30.]] For-41 The decision is not taken. And amendment number 70. Please vote on who supports it. [[13:46:50]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Our next amendment is 60, national deputy Sažko. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u217	Sergey Sažko, Donetskina, 59 constituency. My law also applies to consultations in the investigation into violations of economic competition legislation. In particular, the official of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is responsible for handling the matter on its own initiative or for the care of persons involved in the case may consult with a view to discussing the factual, economic and legal circumstances of the case, the possibility of voluntary cessation or correction of actions that have or may have signs of violations of the legislation protecting economic competition. The person’s concern about holding consultations or inviting the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine reports on the purpose of holding consultations and the main issues to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u218	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u219	That, I understand, was the 60th amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u220	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u221	I'm just looking at this amendment, the amendment that the author is proposing is that he introduces the notion of an official in charge of the case, and he wants to clear the five-day deadline set by the project for individuals to take part in the matter of getting to know and comment. As far as officials are concerned. We do. We understand that it is more appropriate to apply the terminology that exists today in the Antimonopoly Committee Act, namely the Antimonopoly Committee. As for the removal of the five - day period for consultation with. and the submission of comments, we do not really understand the reason why this period should be excluded for commenting on the consultation protocol. The absence of a deadline will tell us exactly what may be the abuse of a consultant. So the clear lines that are set out to make comments are, in our view, important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u222	Thank you. And please vote. Amendment number 60. [[13:49:21]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 61, National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u223	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u224	Next amendment number 63. Don't insist. 64. Nope. 64. May I have your attention, National Deputy Sažko?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u225	Paragraph 1. From paragraph 4 of paragraph 8 of paragraph 1 of section I of the bill, the words “between cartel competitors, as provided for in paragraphs 1, 4 of section 2 of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition” shall be deleted. I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u226	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u227	This amendment was also considered in very detail on the committee, and it is, in fact, taken into account. After all, the MP is asked to provide that the settlement procedure can apply to all cases of anticompetitive concerted action. This logic is reflected in the draft for second reading. And that's why I don't see the need to vote. This amendment is actually included in all the articles that apply to settlement procedures. The settlement procedure will be applied, as suggested by its national MP, to all cases of anticompetitive concerted action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u228	The national deputy agreed to the committee’s position and withdrew his amendment. Next amendment number 69, Oxana Prodan's national deputy. Don't insist. Next amendment 71. Don't insist. 72, National Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. 74, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u229	Dear Oksan Ivanovna, dear colleagues, I don't insist on 74th, but I'm asking for confirmation by 73rd. Perhaps it presents a better version of article 46-2, but it, the 73 amendment, removes the obligation of posting on the official website of the Antimonopoly Committee authorized by hearings. Thus, neither we nor society nor the participants will be able to receive a public and legal report without corruption as a result of hearings. And I insist that we put an amendment to 73 and leave article 46-2 in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u230	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u231	Yeah, I want to comment. It's not really about closing information and not posting reports, it's not about publishing on the Antimonopoly Committee. This is why a new edition is being presented, because the outcome of the discussion in our committee was that it was agreed to give up our proposal to the authors from an institution that would additionally introduce an authorized hearing. So this person will no longer be, not authorized by hearing, not according to his report. We, the authors, have proposed this institution in order to ensure such impartiality in dealing with cases of violation by the Antimonopoly Committee, and to give every person the right to be heard by a person who is not interested in a specific charge and in a specific case of violation to the end, that is, such an independent arbitrator. But the Ministry of Finance, the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, gave their firm negative conclusions. They said that he was authorized by hearings, his introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u232	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u233	will result in the need to spend additional budget costs. They refused to do so. I'm very, very, very sorry about that, by the way. I think we should go back to that question separately and insist on it. But there was an agreement on this bill so that it wouldn't collapse at all. So I ask you not to ask for confirmation, for it is only then that this article will not correspond to another article. Because there's not just an authorized hearing, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u234	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u235	There is a State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee that conducts hearings. According to the logic of the project, listening to the protocol, the protocol is signed, and it's all in the material of the case, so there's no point in canceling this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u236	Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u237	Colleagues, me. Just a minute. So you can understand each other. Do you insist on voting? Mrs. Oksana insists on voting. That's for confirmation, in a word, if she doesn't get the votes. One minute, Mrs. Oksani, so we can get a proper perspective on how we're gonna do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u238	I'll be in half. The whole article changes in the new edition. So if we don't confirm 73 of the amendments, we're going to return the person in charge, and we're going to make a public hearing report. Thank you, 73 revisions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u239	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote to confirm 73 revisions, and the committee's asking her to support it. Please vote who supports the position of the committee, please support. [[13:55:12]] For-32 We don't have enough, Mrs. Victoria. Let's move on to the next 78 revisions. Don't insist. 79th. He insists. And we got to her, we haven't got to her yet. It's 79th. Saska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u240	In sub-paragraph 10, paragraph 1 of section I of the second paragraph of article 48 of the law after the words "was not secured" to be supplemented by the words "provided by law". In the third paragraph of article 48, part 5, of the law, the second sentence should be worded in such a wording "in the decision, the circumstances, evidence on the basis of which a decision has been taken, the justification, the acceptance or the rejection of the evidence of persons taking part in the case." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u241	Thank you. Will you comment or vote? Please, Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u242	In fact, this proposal is already reflected in the project because, according to part four of article 48 of the draft, it states that the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee authorities cannot be based on evidence that persons participating in the case have not been given the opportunity to consult, except in cases where access to information is restricted, according to legislation. So this information with limited access that we've already talked about. That is, a warning about the restriction of access to certain categories of information, it's already provided for by the bill. So I don't think we need to confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u243	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. The '80s, Semenha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, the draft law stipulates that participants in the case may prepare and make comments to the Antimonopoly Committee on the previous findings of the committee on the matter. But the project does not provide for clear legal consequences of the Antimonopoly Committee's reaction to comments and objections put forward by the party. That's why there's an amendment. I propose to write in the body of the law that in the final decision of the Antimonopoly Committee, as a result of consideration, there will be a note of those observations which gave the party a case after taking a look at the previous conclusions of the committee. And if such comments were rejected by the committee, it is vital that the final text of the findings indicate the motives for rejecting such objections. This, on the one hand, will simplify the prosecution procedure before the Court of Justice of this decision of the Antimonopoly Committee, on the other hand, will add responsibility to the members of the Commission of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u245	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u246	The basic requirements for the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee, such as the provision of a separate part of article 48, which would further prescribe the obligation of the Antimonopoly Committee to state in a decision the reasons for the rejection of evidence, are not appropriate, since this makes the law more difficult, and this is still in the draft. That is why the amendment proposed by the MP was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u247	Thank you. But you insist on voting? He insists. I'm betting on an amendment of 80 people's deputies, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:58:59]] For-31 The decision is not taken. And, fellows, now we're going to have the final readout for today -- 81st. Saska, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u248	Sergey Sažko, Donetskina, 59 constituency. I'd like to introduce the 81st edition. In sub-paragraph 10 of paragraph 1 of section I of the bill in the second sentence of paragraph 4 after the words "to conduct or organize investigations in the relevant case" replace the words "responsible to the case". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-18-m0.u249	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 81. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:59:58]] For-22. The decision is not taken. And now let's agree on where we're going to start tomorrow. You insisted on 84th. Okay. Then let's go. What's the next one? 85th. So tomorrow we start with 85 revisions. 86th. Please be in the hall, Mrs. Oksano. We're going to start the bill tomorrow with 86 revisions. My colleagues, I have two more messages. The first one. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the appeal of the President of Ukraine to the Universal Patriarch Warfolomy on the granting of Tomos to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine has just been registered in Parliament. In this regard, I am commissioning a professional Committee on Culture and Spirituality to consider this issue in an off - schedule manner for its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow, Thursday, April 18, 2018. Colleagues, gifts. 2018. Tomorrow. Tomorrow we will consider this decree. I'm asking everyone to maximize their arrival in the hall tomorrow. I think that this decision should take more than 300 votes, because giving a tomas about the auto-cefalia of the Orthodox Church in Ukraine, on the basis of which it can take a proper place in the family of local Orthodox churches, is a fundamental issue of the development and existence of the Ukrainian state. That's why I'm asking everyone to be in the hall tomorrow. The committee, I know, is meeting today, and I hope that there will be a positive decision by the committee. And in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Women's Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Peace. Security." The headquarters of this union are Suslov Irina, Wessel’s Natalia, Masorina Helen, Zarujko Valeria, and Royal Natalia. I welcome the creation of an interfractional union. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I wish everyone good work on committees, effective work. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting in the hall to continue our not easy, but so important for the country of work. Good luck, colleagues.
