ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? I'm asking you to register and ask the national deputies to register. Please. [[10:05:24]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Oleg Vasilovich Lavrik, and we welcome to Alexander Opanasenka's birthday, and to Alexander the Jury, we welcome our colleague with birthday. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, all the days of April we mention the events of a century ago. And for 100 years these days have been the triumphant liberation of Donbas and Crimea by the army of the Ukrainian People's Republic from the Russian-Major occupying forces. The 18th April part of the U.N.R. under the command of Sikewich was released by Bahmut, later by Yuszówka, Gorlovka, Debaltsevé, and Kovpakov. And on this day, on April 20th, 18th, the units of the Zaporezian Division under the command of Colonel Paul Bolbocan were released from New Alexiyevka station in Hersonian, where the liberation of Crimea from the Russian occupation began. And I'm convinced, based on our history and understanding that today the same events in Ukraine and the same occupation as 100 years ago, Ukraine will liberate from Russian occupation and return both Crimea and Donbas. Remember, fight, win. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government are taking part in our meeting. Let's say hello. Colleagues, more actively I ask to welcome the government. And now we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And since this is our first meeting after the two-time election of the government, the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I invite Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman (15 minutes), and then there will be questions from the factions, from the national deputies. Please, Vladimir Borisovich. Attention, colleagues! Please take your places.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I have the honour to address you today with the words, first of all, of gratitude for your support, because it was 2 years ago that the new government was formed in this room on April 14th, with your trust, which faced serious challenges and real challenges. It should be noted, of course, that in 2014-2015 our country has experienced enormous socio-economic challenges, which are extremely sensitive to Ukrainian citizens. And when the 14th-15th year reached all the necessary conditions for the stability of Ukraine, our task was to develop a national economy and start solving the problems that have been accumulated for decades and have been, and remain, unfortunately, extremely sensitive to Ukrainian citizens. Our task was to ensure that economic growth began. We started to work on reestablishing social justice, but it all needed our common position and joint decisions. Thanks to our cooperation, our discussions, sometimes very difficult, have moved many questions away. This is where the Supreme Council of Ukraine began to rebuild, the key word "began to restore," a socially fair change in the pension system. For the first time, we've taken steps to double the minimum wage. We began to change the national education system, and we opened up opportunities to build a new health system. We began to rebuild the country and to repair it capitalally. Today, when these two years have passed, we can say that two years have not been easy. For 2 years, it was very difficult for Ukrainian citizens, but we stood out during this very difficult period. I think we've been through a certain historical stage that might be called the "anti-crisis stage" in our country's fate. We have new tasks ahead of us. We need rapid economic growth, we need new jobs, we need an economically strong Ukraine that can ensure effective protection of our national interests, we need to restore territorial integrity. We have to take a decent place on the map of Europe and the world. And we have every opportunity to do that. But as always, we come to the point where we have to make a choice: either go on and develop a country, look into problems and solve them; or go back. We didn't have fewer calls. Today we have serious problems in terms of external debt service. And we didn't take them with you, but you and I have to serve them, and we have to return them, which is our duty. Instead of translating them into private Ukrainians, they would fill the Ukrainian budget. To do everything to make people feel that there's more money in their pocket and for them, they can buy more than ever. We only have a formal government debt today, from 2007 to 2014. Attention: $60 billion! 46 over the period that I just pointed out. 46 billion were borrowed from the outside, but no one, Ukraine, or Ukraine felt it. We need to make all the necessary decisions to make Ukraine succeed. We've started building roads, we've started providing energy independence, we've started solving problems that haven't really been solved in decades. But we know exactly what my government and I, as Prime Minister, together with you, have to do specifically in order to succeed. And that needs our further consolidation with you. Today, some say that there is a need to hold seemingly successive parliamentary elections. It looks strange, and I've talked about it not once in this rostrum, because we have a year and a half before the next election, and in a year and a year and a year and a half, we can solve the many problems that have accumulated. We can avoid any destabilisation that comes with it, including out-of-the-box elections. And we'll do it with you, I'm pretty sure. I'm proposing a completely different scenario. Let's work in such a way that in 2019 we don't feel ashamed to look into people's eyes, so that people's real income, real work, real living conditions, change to the best side -- we go out to this rostrum, and we raise awareness to Ukrainian society during a period of difficult trials, but with obvious success. That's what people are waiting for today. And I am deeply convinced that the team that is now concentrated in this Parliament, no matter how political flags divide us, and in my heart the only Ukrainian flag, I know that when difficult, we unite, we make decisions. The decisions that I just mentioned reveal the possibility of building a new quality of life for Ukrainians. 2018 We have to invest, we have to rebuild the Ukrainian village, we have to continue decentralization, we have to increase the yield of Ukrainian gas and ensure our independence, we will repair thousands of new ones and build thousands of new kilometers of Ukrainian roads. We know that 2018 has every reason to be successful. So I suggest moving forward today, further in order to give a real answer to all the challenges and to be honest with Ukrainian citizens. And today, I would like to thank you very much, Mr. Head, for your work, for your support, for your support, for your colleagues, for your support, for the Peter Poshenko Block, for your support, for your understanding and solidarity, for your distinguished colleagues from the People's Front. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support and for these two difficult years that we have together, but I am convinced that in the future we will have even more success. Oleg Valeriyovich, I want to thank you and your factions for the criticism, for the state's position and for the fact that the decisions we come to Parliament are made with the heart and are always ready to make decisions for the benefit of our state. Thank you, colleagues from Fatherland, thank you to colleagues from Rebirth and People's Will, and I will thank colleagues from the Opposition Block if they use less populism and disunity, and they will make more decisions to make Ukraine stronger. Thank you, self-help colleagues, for the criticism, for the support, for the constructive ideas, for the common position under many laws. And of course, my fellow countrymen, I want to thank the most important people in this life today -- ordinary Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] I sincerely thank you for your patience, for your wisdom, for your criticism, for your advice, for your efforts to make Ukraine a success. I want to say that my heart and mind, along with Ukrainian society, want real change. Together, and to victory! Thank you so much for your confidence!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, now, here's a question from factions and groups. I'm asking you to do the recording and prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to sign up: factions and groups. From Rebirth Group to Kisse Anton Ivanovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear friends, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! Our "Rebirth" MP is constantly supporting you and will continue to support you. I have a question for you. As a national deputy from Odestina, 142 constituency, I've already asked this question, this city. Once again, dear Sarata Arciz, Arciz-Tarutino. There's project-based documentation, you've given the order, but there's no movement. I'm asking you, I'm asking for your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor Anton Ivanovich, for your question. You know, for me as Prime Minister and the government, it's a priority to rebuild Ukrainian roads that have been destroyed, unfortunately, and every year unrepaired roads have been severely damaged. We started a program of capital repair and reconstruction of roads in the second half of 2016, and more broadly in 2017, and it's going to look even bigger in 2018. And it's clear that all the plans are in place today, but I want to assure you that, as a result of the first half of the year, we're going to look at the actual state of implementation, the capital repairs and the reconstruction of Ukrainian roads in order to maybe make adjustments to our plans. I will be sure to give you another look at the roads you have been focusing on. One of the priorities today is the completion of the road that connects Odessa and Rennie, the Odessa-Rani, is that it stands in the top priority today. We've been doing it together for the second year now, and this year I'd like to finish it. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u6	Thank you. From Fatherland, Odarchenko. Please turn on Odarchenkovi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to address you as a man who has successfully ruled the city in the past, knows the problems of the city. I have been chosen from Herson, and there is a huge problem in Herson with the destruction of flexible buildings. In time, such specific projects were developed, and these buildings began to collapse. They were built back in the '70s. There is an appropriate government program that in due course envisioned the allocation of funds to move people out of these homes. In Herson such houses are 50, but five of them are in a terrible state of emergency. In fact, people live there under threat of collapse. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. There is an appropriate decision by the Supreme Council Committee to provide for the implementation of this program through the allocation of at least a minimum amount of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. In fact, such problems are common to many cities in Ukraine when there is an outdated housing fund that is not suitable for living, and you are telling the truth that I have the right experience in solving such problems. He never took part in State programs for this reason, but he sought local resources because if it was communal property, it belonged to the territorial community. And if by 2014, you're right about the need for new programs, whether it's Drinking Water, whether it's a road program, whether it's a nobility program, whether it's a restoration program, a renovation program, a housing fund or a relocation program, I understand that. I agree, but since the 14th year, dear friends, we've already transferred 64 billion dollars of local budgets to 231 billion places at the 18th, almost four times we've increased the corresponding budgets. Today, I think that the development budget is probably only probably the city of Herson maybe equal to the millions of 500 dollars, I think about that, at least it should be no less, because the city that I headed is already 300 today. Well, I want to tell you that you have to work here to fill the budget. And indeed, even 300 million, that's enough to make phase-out programs for such an old housing fund out of operation, moving people. I once started a program of 10 years ago of municipal housing when we could, including solving both these problems or making investments to make evictions. I think there's a lot of authority in place today to do this job. As far as the government is concerned, apart from the fact that we've transferred hundreds of billions to places, we have made a number of important systemic decisions on the State Regional Development Fund, where the regional authorities decide how to use it according to national regional policy. And the second position is subsidies for social economic development, and we're handing over funds on the road, and so on. So there's actually no state today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u9	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word Zastavan Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, first of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks from all of Ternopolska for the systematic work you are doing after the rebuilding of the Ternopil region. But I want to ask you to personally intervene in a problem that already exists in Ternopolska for more than 22 years, which is the question of the people of the village of Kutkovitsa, the former council of the "Ternopolski", where despair took place without their participation, a model has been developed to satisfy 250 families. All documents are located directly in the Cabinet of Ministers. And a human request from all the inhabitants of this village, the pensioners and former workers of the village and the council of Ternopils that you personally intervene and help solve this problem as quickly as possible. On a direct visit to Ternopolska, that was the promise. I think there'll be more words of gratitude for the systemic work you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u11	Thank you very much, Roman Josephovich, for asking. I will definitely find out if you give me a copy of this address and see what I can do to really help people. In particular, my fellow national MPs, the government has recently approved a decision to transfer 23,000 Ukrainian farmers to land that they are processing, but for which they do not have ownership rights. And we will ask the Ukrainian Parliament to adopt this law in order to restore social justice and support Ukrainian farming. And on this issue, the people of the village of Kutkovtsi, we'll see what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u12	Thank you. The will of the people is Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u13	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, today a huge problem has become the market for population transport. They're throwing our pensioners, our grandfathers, away from our country from the fascists. Today, children (this is the case in Lviv) are flying out the back door, and the firefighters are not being transported at all. And today, electricity is being destroyed, these are trams and trolleybuses. I was talking to you about Kabmini. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, all of Europe today is looking for green energy. All of Europe today is struggling with pollution. We want the electric transport to go completely out of town today. I'm asking you to cancel the Order today since 2015 1192 and return Decree 881, after the reduction in the payment of electricity to utilities, because it's not commercial enterprises, it's utilities, it's utilities, it's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u14	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u15	They're companies that carry firefighters. Please note this. And the second. Volodymyr Borisovich, Luhanščina awaits the government of departure, with a cow. Please look at the state of the infrastructure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u16	Thank you so much for your question. With regard to tariff issues for electricity. Of course, no other system can be found better than electricity or municipal large - scale transport. Clearly, small transportation in cities is counterproductive and absorbs large transportation, which then results in huge catastrophic consequences for the city’s inhabitants. Why I'm talking about this because I have my own experience, including in solving this problem. As far as tariffs are concerned. The country's electricity tariffs are set by an independent regulator of NCRECR, who, unfortunately, has no influence on the government. Because I think there's a question of fair tariffs for industry today, for electricity, for nightlight and so on and so forth. We have differences of opinion here with the NCREKP. But it doesn't fall within government law, and we can't do anything about it. As far as transport is concerned, it is a matter of local communities. I mean, I know what it is when transport comes out, Eli, barely, and people have huge problems with it. Instead, the routes create only danger, technical failures, and so forth. I used to say that bricks were used abroad in these routes, and in Ukraine they were converted from trucks to passengers, and today they drive passengers, that's unacceptable. So we are constantly increasing our responsibility in this area. I want to tell you that our course is to restore trolleybus connections, tram connections, high-density buses. Today, local budgets have every opportunity to modernize and restore transport, including rehabilitation and purchase new ones. And I think it's a matter of local authority. Where it is effective, we see numerous examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u17	Please add. You don't have to, do you? Okay. From the Self-Help faction, Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna. He's handing over Auntie Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, is that now from the rostrum the government's report for two years? We demand an immediate report on the government's activities in two years of your work before society and before taxpayers. When you came to power two years ago, you were talking about setting up customs and building roads. The roads now that it's snowing are the American hills, and the customs are now run by law enforcement officers and smugglers. What 70 billion additional revenue from customs is said by the government if we've studied this issue in detail and found that this amount has been collected on account of the increase in imports, on account of the VAT introduced on imports of gas, on account of the increased imports of vehicles and on account of the devaluation of the national currency. Indeed, only 46 million dollars have been drawn into the budget since the smuggling campaign. So please give us now a report on the tax and customs policies of your government that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u20	Thank you so much for your question. I want to tell you that the roads that look like American hills are not Groysman's roads, it's a symbol of the lack of ownership of the past. As Groysman's roads look, you can look at the Kyiv region, in Lviv region, you can look at Odessa-Rani. These are the roads we're restoring. Now for the government report. Listen, I can say exactly that the government report by the Ukrainian government was presented publicly on February 15, 2018. It's in Parliament today, it's accessible to you, you can study it. Moreover, a number of committees have already reviewed this report with specific figures, with specific details, and with concrete plans, including for the future. So please, you've had it for two months now. And the government of Ukraine is always ready to report at any time and any audience that we do all the time. One more thing I want to say to you is that even I have introduced a completely new practice of a quarterly government report, where I publicly present to the media what was done in one quarter, half year, nine months and a year, and then an annual report, which is due to come to Parliament by the time of February 15, the following year. So read, look. And, of course, if you have a wish for the future, we're always ready to count them. And as for the fight against smuggling, I can tell you that we actually managed to do something, and I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about business associations. And even what you've quoted today is that costs come from export payments, imports, cars and so on, it shows that, in fact, costs come into the budget from export-import operations as they should be. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u21	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u22	As far as strengthening our position in the fight against smuggling is concerned. And you know that's a huge priority for me. We've finally announced the third, I think, scan system purchase tender, 13 of the scanning systems that will allow us to do more quality and clarity in the care and handling of the loads on which we are going to be, I'm convinced that they will increase the yield to the Ukrainian budget. We've been blocked from these tenders in the past, and hopefully this time we'll do it and be able to automate the work of the Ukrainian Customs. And besides, I think you're going to join the profile committee, you can invite the head of the DFS, he'll keep telling you about every bracelet, every index, every customs job. And with smuggling, let's fight harder, and here I am an absolute supporter of such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u23	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block, by Rev. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u24	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! I would like to ask you to complete this year's necessary and necessary work for the city of Berdichev when the disaster was in 2017. In connection with weather conditions, people were unable to finish their jobs — and the funds returned to the budget. We traveled around the city with a city head. People are extremely grateful, children, medics -- all grateful that people believed in you, believed you, and even without money, they covered the roofs so that the ceiling wouldn't fall down and there was no more trouble. I'm asking you very much to help with the funding, because they're back in the budget to calculate with people and to complete the work data. And another important question. Vladimir Borisovich, please, I've already spoken to the Supreme Council in more than once, please help me build a house in the city of Burditch. Three years in a row, funds are being allocated, a house for military personnel. We have three military men.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u26	One of them is the force of special operations. For three years, funds are being allocated, and some disorderly contractors or documentation is not in order. Please, Secretary of Defense, listen to me so that this house will be built by the military. Costs of three years stand out, cost increases by 3-4 million every year, and jobs are not done. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to intervene. It's for our military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. In fact, we allocated funds to support the residents of Berdichev after those events. Unfortunately, they were not used. The next government committee will be asked this question in order not to restore but to return what was not used last year. As for construction, we will consider with the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u28	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Amelchenko Vasil is invited to the floor. He's handing Oleg the can. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the best government report is money in the pockets of Ukrainians. Today, prices in shops, in pharmacies, on a utility store are such that no working family can meet their needs. Here is the activity report. As far as the roads are Of course, we see roads that are being repaired, but most roads in Ukraine are not being repaired. I went to Lugansk yesterday through Donetsk, there's no road, one direction. And the key. Increasing the income of Ukrainians is the only way to restore the economy and overcome poverty. We're hearing statements from the Ministry of Finance that there's no way to raise wages. We're hearing a statement from the International Monetary Fund that Ukrainians don't get paid. Gas prices go up, food prices go up, medicine goes up, and wages and pensions don't go up. And how can humans survive under these conditions? How Can I Cope With Poverty? That's why we're asking you to raise wages, which will allow you to bring people back to the country and overcome poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Oleg Valeriovich, for your question. I want to tell you that I'm very concerned about price increases. But my strategy, I don't think it's any different from yours. How can we stabilize prices in Ukraine today? There are two ways: either the administrative regulation, it was never effective and the price went up, or we can satisfy the Ukrainian market with quality Ukrainian products, this is also true of agricultural products. You're right about the fact that energy prices affect the final cost of production. But you also know that we don't influence the regulation of energy prices today -- that's what an independent commission does. And as this increases for industry, it increases for the final product, including it can increase for manufacturing and repair, capital repair, and road reconstruction. And here I absolutely agree with you that today it needs extra attention. That's why we're planning large-scale agrarian-industrial support programs today. Why? Because in the value of the consumer basket, the price of what has been the biggest increase in the past year? Right on the meat. Because there was, the statelessness led us to have a serious African plague, and no one was fighting it in previous periods, but now we're taking it seriously enough. We started to do drugs today, and we started to support the farmer in the area. In every farm, we're going to put, in the household, in every rural family that's going to feed today's livestock, we're going to give two and a half thousand, and a half thousand for the dairy herds. We're going to do it so that the Ukrainian naturalist is sold, not imported. This will all contribute to the creation of new jobs, including the real growth of the economy. I gave just one example. Now, you're talking about roads. Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm on the same road, and I can see what the problem is. For decades, however, no one has been able to solve this problem. There was no war, there was a stable economy, but they took on a debt, a government debt that is pressing us all today. We're spending 130 billion today to handle debts in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. It's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u32	This was a huge crime in front of the state: taking debts and not knowing where to go, and the roads were not repaired, and the road could stand for 10 years and then be destroyed. If anyone in this room wants to say that it was because of me that the roads were ruined, then maybe what caused me to destroy the Soviet Union? I can tell you that I'm not the one who's gonna cover up the real situation, I'm the one who's willing to decide whether or not this is the first time. Show me at least one year, perhaps for your authority, who was there criticizing this issue to build 3,000 miles of roads. You can't see, I'll give you a ride. But I agree with that and I'll show you, but I agree that's not enough, and most of the time people are on bad roads. But if we've been working on this for five years, the roads will become different, the wages will become different, the economy will become different. And that's why I'm saying that we have to engage financial resources today to make the economy grow. The economy is going to grow -- people are going to have jobs, they're going to go back to Ukraine to work on market wages. But it's not a policy of empty words, it's a policy of concrete action that we're doing with you. We need time, we need strength, we need political unity, and then we'll do everything we can to pay off external debt, make the economy strong and not accept any conditions that make the lives of Ukrainian citizens worse, that's my policy. And I want to thank you once again for the fact that on many issues we are the same people, and on local roads only this year, we're handing over 11 billion dollars, that's never been the case. And the MPs, including the majority, look at the places that these jobs are used. Because one Groysman to look for everyone who makes roads in every corner of Ukraine, and they will be made today throughout the country, is not enough. Let's do it together, and our acquisitions together, and our challenges together, and the problems that we have to look into our eyes to solve them. And if we are honest with people, people will always feel it, understand it, and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u33	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, last time I asked questions, you recommended that you look in the mirror before asking questions. I went to work today, looked at myself in the mirror, and now I have decided to continue the subject of health care. I know why Mrs. Suprun came to Ukraine. You said that when she was in America, she could choose any other state, and she came here, because only we in Ukraine without a diploma, without a Presidential decree on citizenship, could become Minister of Health. It is only in Ukraine that you can get a salary from our taxpayers and pay your taxes to another state, as shown by its declaration. But I have a different question. There is the Cabinet of Ministers Act, article 9. In forming a new cabinet of prime ministers, the Prime Minister is running for office, and there is no coalition. To avoid populism, what are you accusing us of, I'm asking you a specific question: when are you going to put this candidacy into the hall? This will unite us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u35	Mr. Igor, I can see. Now I see you look good, I think you saw the same painting in the morning in front of the mirror. Thank you for your question. And, you know, I understand that you have a special attitude toward the responsibility of the minister of health. We're actually having a discussion in the Ukrainian Parliament with the coalition. As soon as there is a common position on the Minister of Health's candidature, I will certainly submit this candidature to the Ukrainian Parliament as Prime Minister. As for health care in general, I would like to ask one thing. Just ask, please, look, they're saying today that hospitals, clinics are in terrible shape. Really? Really. And let's still talk about what happened as a result of a completely weak policy in the past when no one's health care was interested. Two things were interesting. Two things in health care were interested in what all the regimes were fighting for: first, controlling drug purchases, billions to own them; and second, buying other technical equipment, equipment, whatever it takes to steal 30.40.50 percent. The prime minister came a common man named Suprun, who started to break these schemes, and started to build a new system of transparent drug purchases that gave up any corrupt tool that started to break it all. As a government, we began to work to either leave health care as it is or start to change it. We've chosen another option. And, in principle, I know they'll be critical. My whole life, I've been criticized for not doing anything, but as a result of my work, there's always a good result with regard to people -- that's the main thing that motivates me to work. And now I want to say one thing that I would very much like to say when I leave my post as Prime Minister in order to protect myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u36	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u37	that health care is qualitatively different. But here we have to divide, including, my friends, and responsibility. Already today, a million Ukrainians have been contracted by their own doctor, to whom we will pay twice as much as he has received so far. But the point is, let's think about another question: Who today are the clinics, and who today are the hospital’s ones, and who are responsible for hospital and operating? I'll tell you: the owners of the clinics and hospitals are the local authorities, the district, the area of the third chain that we passed on, and I've already given an example of over 200. A little less than 200 billion dollars for the local budgets. What prevents them from making a normal room today that prevents them from making a normal hospital or operating room? No-ho-ho! Thus, our demands will be strengthened to have new hospitals open. We've just finished OHMATDIT today, and I want to emphasize what I promised in this room to complete the construction of the prenatal center of the Lions, where, unfortunately, they stopped construction in 2011. I kept that promise, and we built it, helped to build the Levites, and today the president in Lviv will open it. We will continue to help solve the problems of hospitals. But the main thing is, I'm going to focus on getting the wages of doctors to go up -- it's our debt that we have to pay them back. But what I'm saying is, there's one of our failures that I'd like to say is that it's an emergency medical emergency. It's about what we really owed there. And we're going to go to the Ukrainian Parliament with a separate program of support and development of emergency medicine. Thank you, Sissyenko, for asking this question, drew attention to a problem that unfortunately has taken place. As a result, we will work to make health care a better place. And one more thing, our joint initiative -- 17 million 800,000 recipes today are written to the sick, chronically ill, who previously couldn't afford to be treated, today they're getting free medicine, that's the result of our work, that's the result, that we didn't steal money, and we won't give who didn't fight for it. And it is not necessary for one Suprun to translate 20 years of irresponsibility and a health house. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u38	Thank you. He's 20 minutes away from the National Deputies. And I emphasize, there won't be, there won't be short talk, there'll be the same 20 minutes. Please record a question from the National Deputies. Svetlana Petrovna's valve, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u40	Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday, two fishermen of the arrested North vessel illegally crossed the border of Ukraine, flying after Russian passports from Kiev to Minsk, and then until the temporarily occupied Crimea. I think you're well aware of the situation with the North. I have a question for you, Mr. Prime Minister, I want you to listen. The question is, why are there so many Russian diplomats who have been driving Ukrainian fishermen all over Ukraine for weeks, trying to smuggle them illegally to the temporarily occupied Crimea? Who will be responsible for yesterday’s nonsense? Why the efforts of the Crimea Prosecutor’s Office, Ukraine’s Attorney’s Office, had been so disgraced by the special services being released.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u41	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u42	I want to finish. Who will be responsible for the fact that we have no border guards at all? Who allowed it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u43	Thank you, Mr. Refate. I didn't know about the problem that you just mentioned about the departure abroad of two of these people. I want to tell you what about diplomats, the decision to evict them is made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. On the other hand, regarding the ban on entry and other sanctions, the Ukrainian Security Service accepts it. And I find it difficult to comment right now, because the Ukrainian Security Service is not within the government's jurisdiction. But I find it hard to tell why that happened. I take your information as a request, and we're going to study and inform you in detail what happened to the weather yesterday, including the weather of the power structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u44	Please, Diditch Valentin Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Union of Patriots of UKROP, Lvivščina. The theme that we're actually constantly silent about is the theme of preserving the historical heritage, the unique national historical heritage. Every year, Vladimir Borisovich, we don't count the unique pearls of our nationals. In my constituency in Goldilocks, the National Monument of Architecture — the Castle of the 15th Century, the Pomorian Castle — begins to take this matter seriously. The counterattacks that the district government can do are unfortunately not enough, and in fact we can lose this unique pearl of architecture and culture forever. I would ask you, just as you make gestures unique to the perinatal center, to make the effort certain and to find some funds to stabilize this unique monument of architecture and to leave it for future generations, because I am convinced that the loss of national memory is no less painful than the loss of political sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u47	You know. Thank you for your question, Mr. Taras. I agree with you that our cultural heritage must be preserved because it will never be restored. But I also know that there are manifestations of complete indifference to such objects. It seems that people do not realize that it is really there a value that needs not just to be preserved but to be passed on to future generations. I'm going to look at the specifics of this building, where it belongs, who owns it and who owns it. And if we can find a solution, I'll offer it to you. Thank you for asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u48	Thank you. I'm going to help with this so that we can solve it. We spoke yesterday about the MP's request. I think we can work this out and do the best we can. So Musei Oleg Stepanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u49	Good afternoon! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, in recent weeks, especially after my statement from the parliamentary rostrum, an extraordinary social negativity has caused the distribution in our schools of a book called "Everything" called "This." I have a specific question. Please tell me, does the Ministry of Education have a Ministry of Education to distribute this book? And is the popularization of homosexuality in childhood and the decomposition of minors a practice of government activity? I don't think so. So why do such books appear with recommendations that it is a textbook for younger children? It says, on this book, that it's a textbook. It says it's for a younger school age. A commission of social morality was abolished. I'm sure it's fine. They transferred this function to the Ministry of Culture. So maybe the Ministry of Culture should be looking at what we think we have, because if grown-ups do, it's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. You say things like that, I'm not comfortable listening to them. It's not any government policy you're talking about. Don't even talk about it. I don't think that's our decision. I think the Minister of Education, one of our best ministers in the government, Lilia Greenevich, will now inform you of the real state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Oleg, the Ministry of Education and Science has nothing to do with this book. By the way, this book is being rewritten in Ukraine for the second time. It was first published in 2008. And we have a lot of different books on the market. The Ministry of Education and Science does not control all child literature. We only do research on the methodological textbooks and textbooks that go to school. It's not in this book, we got this book specifically, and the journalists brought it to us, it's not written that it's recommended by the Ministry of Education. It's not true. Hence, the book’s creators translated it because it is a foreign edition translated into English, and those who did so bear responsibility for it. And we need to warn our parents just on their own here by informing them that they should watch what they're letting their children read. The Ministry of Education works with those textbooks and textbooks that go to school. This book was never recommended by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u53	Christ is resurrected! Question to the Prime Minister. Volodymyr Borisovich, there's a war going on in the country. I realize that the issue of roads is very painful for you, but for us, the question in Donetsk, Luhansk is extremely painful in connection with the export, daily export, of injured persons. Unfortunately, the governors of both areas, the Donetsk Region and Luhansk, are doing nothing to simplify this process. You're told a lie when they say it's military. The only two roads that are used by the military are the Audiowka, the Kostinenovka and the Volnovaha, the Mariupol, they're the only ones in good condition, the rest of the roads don't exist. We can't get the wounded out of Svetlodarska. We have a critical situation in which we are exporting as a sick population from Mariupol and more injured. We have a problem that we can't even pick up babies from Mariupol on military helicopters. We have, in fact, a very critical road situation there, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u54	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u55	Volodymyr Borisovich, once again, please, now I'm speaking from all military personnel, especially medical personnel in the war, we need your personal control over the repair of roads in Donetsk and Lugansk. We're in a critical situation with the wounded being taken out. We're actually risking the health of our heroes every time, taking them out to the stables -- they're in the central district of the hospital. Plus we have a big problem with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u56	I thank you for your question. I must, as a matter of principle, as long as you're speaking, have the Deputy Prime Minister of Kistion hold a meeting at the hands of everyone. There are, you know, special conditions for managing these areas, not district administrations, but military-civil administrations, and there are certain features. So everything that depends on the promotion of the government, we'll see what we can do. But let's analyze the situation, analyze the available resources and how they're targeted at solving the problems you're talking about. Of course, these are important questions that you are addressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Kirichenko Alexei gives the floor to the question of Igor Mosiyczuk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have three short questions for you. One: about roads, specifics. 300 million were allocated to local roads in the Poltava region. Head of Oblavtodor, Vladimir Trojanovski. Sulu's bridge is falling, everything, I think, this year it's going to collapse. On the roadways, we demonstrated the Paradise heads with their heads, not even their belts. Please take personal control. The second question. Recently, he visited the Odessa Art Museum and learned that 8,000 paintings are located and stored in a terrible state. This is exactly the situation with pictures from the Pototsky collection that you have in Vinnica, in an extremely difficult state. If we do not care about culture, what are we fighting for, and what are we different from our eastern neighbor? And finally the third, if you're talking about war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u60	Questions to the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Svetoslav, please tell me, how could he be a soldier of the Primorski district of Odessa, the person who bought an apartment in the occupied Crimea in 2015 during the fighting in Debaltsovo? This is Mr. Loban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Igor. In the Poltava region, I can tell you that we really are allocating enough serious resources. But I'm going to check on those plans that you told me about in those areas. In fact, for the first time this year, it will be 11 billion on local roads. I think in terms of real money it's three or four times as much money. But you're right about using them differently. Maybe make a good, good, honest repair, and you'll have a normal road there for 5 and 10 years. And you can do that tap-apple 0-- and it's going down. But I want to say one thing. Look, there's one thing nobody should do on the road. We do sometimes seal roads, it's a pit repair that's not long-lasting. It could be three, six months. And it's clear when winter, summer, it's just going to collapse. Our task is to reduce the current repair of the safety deposit box, and to increase the number of road repairs. Now we're on our way. Well, when they haven't repaired the road in decades, when they were destroyed. Look, Odessa Kiev, Kiev-Odessa. made the late minister of Kirpa in 2003-2004, no one looked at it on this road, and it was as simple as: 10, 12, 15 years -- and it fell apart. But if they looked at her every year, she wouldn't be in that condition. This indicates that we have several periods there. A couple of roads were made by 2012 until the Euro-2012 couple. One road, maybe more there, was done there in 2003-2004, and another road was made in the period to the 80th Olympics in 1979, when I was about to be born, that's all. And that's why we have such a terrible situation. Let's check on Poltava. Now, one point. It's not "you're in Winnitzkin," it's on Winnichkin. Ukraine is the only one. And Poltavščina, and Vinickina, and Kharkishkin, and Chernigovishte, and Luhanščina, and so on. So I'm going to take a look at this. I don't know if the museum is organized or if it's an area of state, let's see what kind of funding the area is. District budgets have to, well, get to it. And by the way, I want to say the Poltava District Council. How much is it that is blocking the allocation of new possibilities for obtaining Ukrainian gas today? Do you have any idea what that is? They're blocking us in exchange for buying gas for the currency! It's a disaster, I'm stressing it. I'm going to ask the people's deputies. I'm told there's already someone with corruption stories walking around the hall blocking all these stories. I'm going to ask the district council, I'm going to ask the district council. Finally, create competition, let them come and get, let them make Ukraine stronger. We'll buy less for the currency. We're going to get more Ukrainian gas, we're going to be able to cut prices right now. How can you not understand that? It's a public interest. The rent has already been left at 5 percent. Well, what else do we have to do to go to large-scale competitive work? Let's take a look at the museums, Mr. Yuri, and inform. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u62	Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! The question is, in 2015, the Supreme Council adopted legislation that allowed the state to regain control over the state-owned economy, in which the state had 51 percent but less than 60 percent. There's an example of a change in the management of Scrooge. But there's another big strategic enterprise, the Zaporezian Titanognei Combine, where 51 percent of the state, but since 2013, Mr. Siwak, who owns the minority package in this company, has been running it. In 2016, even after the changes to this legislation, Mr. Sivak was given the suspicion that the SAP would spend 500 million dollars in the company. Sadly, though, two years after he was even given the suspicion, Kabmin and the Holding Fund failed to agree on a candidate for the executive responsibility to remove and appoint a new head of the state enterprise. Asking for personal control of the work of Mineconomy and the Maintenance Fund on change of direction and exclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Mr. Paul! I'd like to say that you're right about the fact that we haven't yet reached a breakthrough in good corporate governance and in changing approaches to the formation of modern management in state companies. But there's good news that we've reformulated the government's work now to bring these leaders to high transparent standards. A new working group has been set up with our international partners in government, already announced public competitions for a number of supervisory boards in large state companies. And we're going to do everything we can to make all those who can't provide public interest change to those who have competitive knowledge and skills to be public, bright and quality management. You're asking a fair question, that's what we're now at the stage of a real solution to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u65	Thank you. And I'll give you a minute to answer the Defense Minister's previous questions. Please, Mr. Poltorak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u66	Dear Igor Volodymyrovich, thank you so much for asking me this question. But I'd like to remind everyone that I've been Minister of Defense for four years now, and I think the National Deputy needs to know that my name isn't Stanislav, and it's not Svetoslav, it's Stepan. Likewise, I cannot know the name of the forces of the Primorsky region, because it is the nomenclature of the commander of the Land Army. But for the information that you have provided, thank you, I will definitely take care of it and make a legal decision, and I will inform you of the outcome of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Sisoyenko Irina asks Roman Semensi. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u68	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you and the government in general are often told of an upsurge in economic growth, but the figures point to quite the opposite. According to official data from the National Bank of Ukraine, 13 percent of inflation in March this year. Although 7 percent of the inflation rate in your budget is in fact already half as high as planned. What I'm drawing your attention to, during the self-help budget process, was drawing your attention to the unrealistic macroeconomic indicators on which the budget was built. Moreover, there's a steady negative trend, there's a cut in gold reserves, especially in the last five months, and by April 1, this year, they're already $18 billion. Not a better situation in a single treasury account when on April 1, 2016, when you became Prime Minister and promised to show how to manage the country, the only treasury account was $21 billion. By April 1, this year, the single treasury account had dropped more than three times, amounting to a little over 8 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u69	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u70	So if the economy is growing so violently, why do all the macroeconomic indicators and other figures that talk about the state of the economy show the opposite? What about public finances for taxpayers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u71	Thank you so much for asking. That was the final question, yes. If you give me three minutes, I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u72	Colleagues, pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u73	Last one, okay. I wanted to ask who heard it from me, for once.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u74	Mr. Prime Minister, there will be another question of Fedoruk, it will be a final question, another question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please tell me, who heard me say the word of violent economic growth? I've never said that before, maybe you're listening to someone else. I've been talking about the economics of today showing the restoration of its growth. I'm talking about what we've set a macroeconomic forecast: a 3-percent growth rate. Today, all experts, including the IMF, say that growth is going to be 3.2; 3.3; 3.4 percent, or more of our forecast. As far as inflation is concerned, I think you should show it more correctly. It's more correct to call this number. Why? Because she couldn't put that number in March, she could put that number on an annual scale. But what do we need to work on here? Over the economy, over the improvement of the status of imports and so on and so forth. We talk about it all the time, but we've introduced 35 laws with you to strengthen the economy, it's real work. So from what we're about to say more or less, nothing is going to happen. Jobs, jobs, wages, taxes, reduced external debt pressure -- that'll give us an opportunity to build a quality economy growth. One more thing. I'm saying that our goal is 5.7 percent of economic growth, and for that we're going to need your support as a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and, thank God, we're working on it with you today. I think in 2019 we're going to be able to provide, or by the end of this year, more growth than the projections we have. Now, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. People's Deputy, the only treasury account. Look, we lived in the first quarter, and in March months, in your mind, the Ukrainian government paid for external debt -- attention! - 1 billion (dot) $400 million. How much is that? Forty billion. Of course, we need external support, and we need external support when Ukraine belongs to a club of democratic states. That's why we're going to need an anti-corruption court in May. Because we have to go out on a loan, pay off debts that we didn't take with you. I'm sorry, but Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk cheated on his government debt, restructured 3.8 billion dollars, and that was a reduction in his debt. But all the years before he was 14, he was raised. And now they want to test us with this? So what I want to point out is, yes, we're dependent on external borrowing today, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u76	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u77	We are dependent on external borrowing today, we need to ensure constant macroeconomic stability, as I was talking about today in Parliament's rostrum. Don't be alarmed, we have the country's normal currency reserves, but they may be bigger if we do a common household assignment with you: and the emergence of an anti-corruption court, and the continuation of our macro-financial support programme from the European Union, 1.9 billion of that support comes from the IMF and 1 billion euros from the European Union. But what do I want? I want us to pay all our debts so that we can become an independent state, so that we can stop giving away what we took to us, so that we can start to accumulate what we're going to give to Ukrainian citizens, that's our priority. And now, with regard to government activity. You're sitting next to Auntie Georgieva while she's on the phone, I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u78	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u79	2017 was an unforgivable year, but we were able to go through it and provide more than 2.5 percent of economic growth -- that's not enough, I'd like more, help. And I want to give you a report from the Ukrainian government for 2017, study, read, and please give your advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u80	And a final question. Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, first of all, the decentralization policy of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and your government has provided unprecedented opportunities for local authorities. And to answer the question, maybe, why did the money in the treasury account go down, they went up a lot, local budgets. In our time, we could only dream of it. And the question is, we're all asking questions about roads. There's a proposition, and there's a question and a suggestion: how do you see that the roads that are built, especially in historic cities, from natural nuisances serve for more than 50 years, but the pay for doing the work, the hard work for making this nuisance is very meagre -- 26 bracelets per square meter. People don't go to this profession, they go abroad, where they get paid a lot more. The way you look at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u83	How do you look at changing DBNs and increasing the pay for this job? And this is going to be the longevity of roads, especially in historic cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u84	Thank you, Mikola Trochymovich. Please give your calculations and your referrals, I'll send them to the Minregion to take a look. I think manual labor, it's always going to be more expensive than asphalt cartridges to roll up asphalt, that's for sure. That's right. You said that in a single treasury account, the local budgets are budgeted for a minute. - 64 billion. 64 billion in the economy. In the context of decentralization. But I would like these 64 billion to invest in the development of the national economy. Then we'll have real resources for further growth. But what I'm stressing is that we need to move forward in order to ensure, in the first half of the year, continued cooperation with international partners and to conduct qualitatively further policies to increase our economic growth. And about the economy. What is 3 percent increase? For a moment, 471 billion dollars to be produced by Ukrainian hands and Ukrainian intelligence. That's 471 billion dollars up until last year, which one. Ukrainian products that will conquer new markets. So let's work to make economic growth faster, my friends. The Anti-Corruption Court will allow us to increase investment immediately, including the dynamics of investment. Why? Because trust in Ukraine will be quite different from that of our international partners, a fair judicial system has a key role to play. Thank you so much again for your questions, colleagues. Thank you for your support. We must move forward, we must be strong, we must be honest, and we must be effective in relation to our state and our citizens. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u85	"The year of questions before the government" is over. Let's thank the Prime Minister, the Ukrainian government, and we wish you a fruitful job and a shared, one-time job. We now have, according to the Rules of Procedure, the reading of parliamentary enquiries. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare to hear the MP's requests. But before that, I want to make an announcement. On April 21, 2018, the third charity football match "Parliamentary Cup -2018" will be held at the Viktor Bannikov Stadium in Kiev, on the edge of Laboratory Street, 7 a.m. between the National Deputys of Ukraine and the team of journalists. The main goal of the charity match is to help children, movers from eastern Ukraine and Crimea. And I invite everyone to attend this charity game. And I give the word for questions to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, allow me to inform you that 276 requests from national deputies have been registered today. I will, of course, announce all of them today so that we can work with them, with answers to our questions from other authorities. We don't have any questions registered with the President of Ukraine, so we're not going to put any questions to the vote right now. And I'm starting to announce other questions. So the questions came from the Ukrainian national MPs: Victor Razwadowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Head of the Zitomir Observatories for the allocation of funds from the state budget to the central city hospital No. 2 of the city of Zitomir for the capital repair of the surgical unit. Also Victor Razwadowski, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir Observatories for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the ball joint of Garbuzuk Mikoli, a resident of the village of Lipne in the area of Žitomir. Tetjana Ritchkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of a valid order of payment in cash from the payment of all modes of transport for general use on urban, suburban and intercity routes in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Alexander Kugel to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, for the provision of first aid kits (medical medical supplies) and fastening materials. Alona Babak to the Minister of Defense, Korostoshov City Head, on the question of the need to improve living conditions of a citizen named Anatolia Morugi. Dmitry Lubinz to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of the investigating authorities in criminal proceedings brought to the GDR by No. 42016171090000095 and No. 1201617900903035. Yurya Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the provision of assistance in the treatment of disabled people, Hanni Grušecki and Bogdan Grušecki. Jury of Miroshnitzka to the head of the Ternopil district administration for the provision of disability to the third group of Hanni Prussian Help in the treatment and treatment of her disabled child, as well as material assistance. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Oblast, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv region to establish the road sign “Stop at the Request” across the road from the village of Sokolov Kamyanka-Buzki district on the M-06 Kyiv-Cop road. Michael Bondar to the head of the State Audit Service, head of the National Service Department of the State of Ukraine, in an emergency situation in the Lviv region regarding the critical condition of the fire and technological safety of the Brody Central District Hospital and its subordinate facilities. Groups of People's Deputies (Rybčina, Kugel and others) to the Director of the Public Shareholders Society, Zaporozky Production Aluminium Combine, to provide information on specific issues of the Public Shareholders Society's activities, with the aim of ensuring journalistic activity and maintaining the current legislation in part of privatization. Jury Odarchenka to the Henprocuror for violating the procedural deadlines for conducting a pre-trial investigation into criminal cases involving officials of the Open Shareholders Association "Herson Combains". Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister, on the allocation of additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2018 for the development of transport infrastructure in the border region of Suma. Dmitr Sváš to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service for the possible avoidance of excise taxes by the Vinnikov tobacco plant and the inaction of officials of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine in the Lviv region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the promotion of an urgent cardiological operation from the replacement of the heart valve at the National Institute of Heart and Court Surgery of Amos National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine for budgetary expenses. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the promotion of operational intervention and treatment of cancer at the expense of budgetary resources; and for the provision of material assistance. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister for the capital repair of the Cherkasi-Kanów road and Cherkasy-Jaskov-Oradovka road in the Cherkas region. Igor Alekseieva to the city’s Kiev head on improper road maintenance in Kiev. Igor Alekseyev to the head of the Institute of Criminal Enforcement on the strategy for the development of the national model of probation. People’s Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionova) Only 4th) to the Prime Minister for amending the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a view to improving the conditions of payment of military personnel assigned to military and civilian administrations. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Ionovo, Kondratjuk) to the Prime Minister on the use of urgent measures to enforce the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "To restrict the supply of certain goods (work, services) from the temporarily occupied territory to another territory of Ukraine and/or from another territory of Ukraine to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine" dated 16 December 2015 No. 1035, in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Sergia Soboljeva to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Deputy Prosecutor Henprocuror of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for an assassination of approximately 24 million dollars for the development of project documentation for the construction of teaching facilities by the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine in a total area of 1.8 hectares. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the allocation of the funds needed for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Odeska Regional School of Higher Skill "Olympic". Alexander Opanasenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the consideration of proposals Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Shepetov District Council of the Hmelnicki District, head of the Shepeti district government of the Hmelnicki District for the non-compliance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine, which consists of the cessation of the legal person, the Communal Organisation of the Shepetovka Station. Vadim Sidorczuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the implementation of appropriate compensation for a school bus carrying students of the Kamyan School of Public Education, which was removed for military transport on the basis of Presidential Decree No. 303 of 17 March 2014 on partial mobilization. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Volin Arch, Head of the Volin Observatories on the urgent restoration of the garden of Forest Ukraine in the village of Kovel district of Volin Region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for information on the financing of technology and colleges in 2018. Igor Shurma to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the opaque housing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Council staff in the legal regime of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine on the Illegalness of Getting and Use of Personal Data of Individuals during the Application of Declarations in the eHealth System. Viktor Ostapchuk is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the legal basis for the conversion of health care institutions from budgetary institutions to municipal nonprofit enterprises. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the capital repair of the M-21 International Road. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the removal of the right to housing of persons who participated in hostilities in the territories of other States and their families. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Lviv Oblast, the head of the Lviv Archibald on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Lower Jablounka in the region of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service, Head of the State Border Service, Minister of Infrastructure for Information on Anticipating Funds for Building New Gaps, Modernizing Existing Ones, Through the State Border Border and Building Border Infrastructure. Tetjana Ostrikov to the State Border Service, National Police Directorate in the Zitomir region, for a proper response to the fact that hunting in the territory of the natural reserve and not bringing information to the ERDF is illegal. Stepan Ivahiva to the Prime Minister on the plan of action, marking at the national level 150 years from the date of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. Paul Rizanenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre, minister of agricultural policy and food to comply with the requirements of land law in the proper consideration of citizens’ concerns regarding the granting of permits for the development of documentation with a land administration regarding the taking of land into possession of a private farm. Alexander Kirsch to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the purchase of equipment for the "Specialized Medical Part No. 13" located in Kharkiv, in the village of the village of Petihatka. Alexandre Kirsza to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of insulin to people with diabetes in the city of Kharkova in 2018. Michael Papiev and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for the destruction of medical facilities purchased through international organizations at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Helen Matuzko to the head of the Donetsk Regional Military and Civil Administration for the provision of information on the presence in the right field of the passenger transport route to cross the collision line through the entrance-exit checkpoint "Majorski", namely the route of the passenger buses from Bahmut to the town-type village of Zajejwe (Majorski's entry-exit checkpoint) and in the reverse direction and its monopolistic service of the commercial company "APP" subordinated to the Donetskian Equipment. Oksana Korczynski, acting as Head of State Enterprise, Food Design Building, to provide information on the construction of a modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the need to increase medical subsidies to local budgets for the treatment of patients with rare (orphan) diseases and the need to establish a National Register for Rare (orphan) Diseases. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for ensuring adequate funding for health workers in Kharkiv. Oksana Korczynski to the director of the Society with limited responsibility for Ríola-Modul LTD to provide information on the construction of the modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of pensioners and representatives of civil organisations of the Alexandrian territorial community of the Kirovograd region regarding the removal of benefits for the travel of a large part of pensioners at the age of the Government of Cash Form (monetization) for payment of benefits for travel in general use transport. Sergio Melnika to the Minister of Education and Science on the State's request for education on the basis of full general secondary education. Jury Bublika to Vice Prime Minister-Minister for Regional Development, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Abuse of Monopoly Balancer of Multiple Houses in Poltava – Society with Limited Responsibilities of the Management Housing Company, the arbitrary increase in tariffs for services rendered by him, the seizure of consumer costs and the enforcement of contracts by restricting or disengaging houses from electricity supply. Romana Macola, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection for the reconciliation and approval of the holding of qualification examinations in the field of the registration of agricultural equipment of the General Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture in the Hmielnicki Region. Romana Macola is under the responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency for the transfer of the area of the village of the townlike Grecian Shepetov district of Hmelnitsk, which is 2,000 miles [2.8 km] from municipal property to state property. Alexander Dombrovski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Housing of the Vinnick garrison’s military and military personnel who have been released or retired. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Winnicki City Head, for the review of the award of a public service grant to the citizen of Sparrow Galina Pawlowna. Savchenko’s hopes for the Ukrainian minister of justice for maximizing the extradition process to Ukraine by Ukrainian politician Sergija Litvinova. Savchenko’s hopes for the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for maximizing the extradition process to Ukraine by Ukrainian politician Litvinova Sergio Mikolaiovich and for the consular protection of his legitimate interests. Sergia Labazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy on the provision at the level of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Institute of the Family. Igor Goose to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the plans of the Government of Poland to introduce customs and excise duties into Ukrainian fuel more than 200 litres (from 1 June 2018). Igor Goose to the Minister of Social Policy, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy on the need for legislative enforcement of the minimum wage rate as a calculated value for the determination of official salaries, tariffs and other payments to coal workers. Tetjana Bachevi and Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the incompetence and inappropriate attitude of the Ministry of Health's leadership towards the current issues of rehabilitation and the return to active social life of war invalids and participants in hostilities in the territory of other States, in particular the elimination of the targeted budget funding of the Ukrainian Republican Hospital for International Soldiers of the Forest Plain. Vadim Krivochatka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the acting deputy chief of the Guliapil Police Department, the head of the Natalia Podolako Investigations Department. Anatoly of Denisenka to First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development and Trade to prevent an increase in counterfeit goods in the Ukrainian market. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Strategy for 2017-2021. Alexander Suprunka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency, head of the National Police of Ukraine, to strengthen road safety measures in the areas of highways where the necessary repairs are carried out. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need for State support and financial security to complete the gasification of housing in the city of Gyrska Lugansk. Julia Ioffe to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, the head of the Central Election Commission on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, to settle the issue of the appointment and holding of the first elections in the Gorski Municipal Joint Territorial Society of the Páznań district of Lugansk. Natalia Weselov to the head of the Kyiv City Administration regarding the inaction of individual officials of the Kyiv City State Administration and the Glossiev District in Kiev State Administration. Arthur Martovicki to the Prime Minister on the unfair system of pension insurance. Arthur Martovicki to the Prime Minister for the observance of human rights with mental and environmental disorders. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Authorized President of the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Social Policy on the need for all-inclusive assistance in the treatment of Victoria Tokar’s sick child abroad to ensure that she has the inherent natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical care from the authorized authorities of the state. Andrea Galchenka to the Prime Minister for the treatment of hearing impaired children, particularly the child, Lobby Barvary, in 2016. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Kirovograd State Administration, head of the Ivano-Frankow State Administration for immediate measures to ensure that citizens are provided with medical supplies after the transplant. Andrija Shipka to the minister of culture, the minister of interior affairs for the conservation and exploration of the Nechayya Tomb, the Scythian Kurgan of the third century B.C. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on personal responsibility for failing to implement the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the ineffective use of international financial assistance. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Viacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the failure of the full destruction of the 16th century castle in the village of Pomoryans of the Zoločov region of the Lviv region and the allocation of funds for its restoration. Mr. Alexander Gerega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister for the calculation of pensions to government officials, local government officials. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister for the construction of an underground hiking tour through railway lines in a village of the Danube Danube area of the Hmelni district. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister for granting to the Pochrova Rural Council of the Ochakov region of the Mikolai region the status of a difficult territory. Igor Pober to the Prime Minister on the draft order of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine "On Pathology Anatomy Service in Ukraine". Oleg Kulinić, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health, to increase the State budget subsidy to provide insulin to the patient. John Sporish to the head of the Head of the State Land Agency in the Vinnitsk Region regarding the situation that resulted in the rental of the land by a citizen named Victor Gubitt for farming. Vladimir Parasuka, head of the Lviv Oblast, head of the Yavorov District Administration of the Lviv Region, is temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Road Management, Transport and Liaison of the Lviv District State Administration for the resolution of issues related to passenger transport in the Yavorów region of Lviv. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv Observatories on the urgent solution to the problem of the shortage of land for participants in the fighting activities of the city of Novoyavorysk and the village of the city type Ivano-Frankov Yavorovsky district of Lviv. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the immediate repair of M-05 Kiev - Odessa. Anna Romanov to Minister of Home Affairs, head of the Dnipropetrov Authority on the opposition to vandals that destroy Ukraine's historical heritage. Igor Kotwitsky to the Minister of Culture, head of the Kharkiv District Ministry for the extremely neglected state of individual historical monuments in the Kharkiv region. Andrija Illenka, acting as head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, to increase the volume of passenger transport by rail on weekends. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration, the Director General of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation, the head of the right-wing district office in Kiev, the government on measures to dismantle illegal objects and bring underground pedestrian crossings of the right-wing district of Kiev to proper sanitary and technical conditions. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the acceleration of the provision of bullet joints to the Montenegrin region. John Rybak to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "The State Savings Bank of Ukraine", head of the Chernivetsk observatories regarding the non-closure of the Building Branch No. 033 of the Security Department No. 6730 of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine. Group of Nardeps (Gudzenka, Melnickenka, others, only 93) to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Lviv State, Head of the Zacarpathian Government for Construction of Road between the village of Volosnka (Slavsk) The Skolivian region of the Lviv region and the village of Philippec in the district of Mižgir district of Zakarpat. Vitalia Gudzenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine for violations of the requirements of effective legislation in the operation of the pond located on the river Roska in the village of Tetijev Region of Kiev. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the conduct of a specialized auction for the sale of compressed gas. Mr. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the gross obstruction of the rights of members of the Police Department of the People's Police Department of the National Police of Ukraine in the Chernigiv region to determine the status of a participant in hostilities. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of a fair pension for those who paid a pension to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for more than 30 years, and those who paid such a deduction for 15-20 years, but who actually receive a minimum pension. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible non-target use/storage of funds allocated for repair of the Kharkiv - Rubiène - Vavčansk road during 2014-2017, all necessary control measures, as well as the allocation of funding and the provision of capital repairs of the marked road. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the immediate solution of the issue of the safe operation of thermal networks and heating systems in the city of Mikolayev. Igora Artushenko to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Public Shareholder Society Bank Credit Dnipro. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures to solve the problem of the accumulation of municipal debt. Valeria Davidenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the need to provide medicines for insulin - dependent patients in the Chernigiv region. Olesia Long to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, for the definition of more well-founded standards for heating costs. Gregory Times to head of the Chernobyl Road Service on the need to set up the sidewalk within the village of Dinyovci along the renovated road of national significance N-03 Chernivci-Zitomir. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for refusing to allow the closure of the Ophthalmological Department of Kyiv City Clinic No. 9. Jury of Macedonia to the head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine on the use of response measures for failure to comply with the requirements of legislation in the area of licensing by officials of the State Enterprise Food Resources Ministry of Health. Jury of Macedonia to the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights on the use of response measures for violations by officials of the Ministry of Health and the State Service of Ukraine from medical devices and drug control of the right to information. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for work on urgent action to address the critical situation that has arisen in connection with the liquidation of the Poltava Tampani Authority of the Public Shareholder Society of Skrnafta. Sergey Kaplina to the head of Nazcomisi, who is in charge of state regulation in the field of energy and utilities regarding the use of measures to prevent the gas from being cut off in the houses of Poltava and Poltavas region by the Public Stock Exchange Company for the gas supply and gasification of Poltawaza. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Accounting Chamber on the purposeless use of state budget subsidies in the 17th year of local construction budgets, capital repairs, reconstruction of small group houses, houses supported by housing, construction, housing for family-type children's homes, social housing for orphans, children deprived of parental care, persons of their number. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, a re-deputy request for a ruling by the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal in a dispute between the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the Public Shareholder Association Gazprom on a contract for the transit of natural gas. Sergey Vlasenka to the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Deputy Attorney-General of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the submission to the Single State Register of Judicial Investigations of the report of the commission of the crime by President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, for his unlawful advantage over the sum of tens of millions of United States dollars and the requirement of part of other persons' business. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the change to the Odessa and Odessa County Hospital Districts, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since December 27, 17th, No. Oleg Osuhovski to Deputy Prime Minister, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Henprocuror, Deputy Head of National Police, Head of National Police in Kiev. Director-General of the National Kievo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve for the provision of complete information on parliamentary appeals. Oleg Osuhovsky to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Deputy Head of the National Police, Head of the National Police Directorate in Kiev, Head of the Shevchenk district education department in Kiev, Prosecutor of Kiev for a systemic situation with signs of corruption, private interests during tender procedures in the educational and health institutions of Kiev. Mikoli Fedoruk to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food on the use of measures to develop agriculture. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Minister of Finance for Funding for the Renovation and Restoration of the School of Fine Arts of Verikowské Ternopilsk Region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for the proper pay of postgraduate pedagogical education. Panels of MPs (Bathenka, Shevchenka, others) up to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to prevent centralised optimisation of the bed network and to reduce the number of medical institutions in the regions without taking into account the opinion of the local community. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General regarding the improper conduct of investigations by the authorities of pretrial investigation. Paul Kishkar to the Minister of Finance, the Head of Energy Customs of the State Fiscal Service, for failure to execute the court’s decision and for delaying the repayment of the customs fees paid. Borislav Bereza to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev, for the cessation of the destruction of the natural-command fund of national importance, the Bulls Festival. Borislav Bereza to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev for non-compliance with the obligations of Pat "DBK-4" from the construction of a new school in the 20th microregion of the residential estate of the Finest Trinity. Roman Semenah to the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district regarding the possible involvement of officials of the Department of Electricity to commit criminal offences. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for pension insurance for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Anatolya Kuzmenka to Henprocuror for the improper investigation by the prosecution authorities of criminal conduct discovered by the raiding of the agricultural sector of Kirovograd. Yurya Levchenka to Henprokuror for the mass illegal production of granite in the village of Zwan Murovanokurilovatski district of Winnitsk. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the inadmissibility of actions that violate the law and for the non-extension of an illegal lease agreement. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Infrastructure for the provision of information on legal acts. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Antimonopoly Committee for Information Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister on changes in the licensing conditions for educational activities of educational institutions. Groups of nardputts (Shinkovitcha, Macoli, others) to the head of the Hmelnicka District State Administration on the indignation of residents of the villages of Sarovecka, Malašovtsi, Matskovtsi, and Wolica Hmelnicka district of Hmelnicka district on the planned construction of a solid waste site and a cemetery in the area of these villages. Groups of nardputts (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnicka oblganda on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of sewage treatment plants and sewage pumping stations in Isaslavi district of Hmeljna district. Dmitry Lubinz to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the establishment of a monument to John Frank in Madrid of the Kingdom of Spain. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the head of the Zitomir government for the provision of legally defined guarantees to victims as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident and the non-commitment of them. Mustafa-Masi Nyem to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the recognition of LNR and DNR by terrorist organizations. Panels of members (Birds, Trees of others) to the First Deputy Director of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on ignoring the appeal of the National Deputies and determining the reasons and reasons for not presenting the risks of the bill in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure a proper review of the parliamentary request for a situation involving the renaming of Jaroslav Galan Street in the village of Sopov of the United Territorial Society. Victoria Ptašnik and Alona Shkrum to the First Deputy Director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority for Ignoring the Call of People's Deputies and Identifying the Reasons and Reasons for Notifying the Risks of the Bill in the Conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Social Affairs, the first deputy head of the State Service of Ukraine in the field of war veterans and anti-terrorist operations, the head of the Vinnicko oblivion, the head of the Żmerinsky district government for the provision of services from the psychological rehabilitation of the participant of the hostilities, the citizen of Vitalia Zabashtanski. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on undirected migration processes, their negative impact on the state's development and development, its demographic situation due to the outflow of highly qualified persons and talented young people, the absence of a state of migration policy and appropriate warning measures. Jury Timoshenko is under the temporary responsibilities of the head of the Ukrainian State Service in matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding possible violations of citizens’ land rights. Yuri Timoshenko to the Prime Minister to provide for the needs of the Cologne Inclusive Resource Centre of the District Council of Colomia. Taras Shepherd to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the verification of the rightfulness of the transfer of land to private property in the territory of the villages of Mali Hodakkov and Kostinovka of the Ternopil region of Ternopil. Taras Shepherd to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the investigation into the attack on the deputy of the Ternopil City Council VI and VII of Igor Turski. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development and Trade, to address the issue of compensation for the construction of a high-pressure underwater pipeline from the automated gas distribution station of Dubrovica and village Selec and Yasinec of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region, at the expense of the state budget. Vasil Janicka to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Pension Fund, minister of finance, minister of social policy to ensure a fair mechanism for making pension payments to many children who worked in agricultural production. Ruslan Demczak to the Prime Minister on increasing the length of leave for preschool teachers. Ruslan Demczak, head of the State Water Agency for the first-line provision of centralized water supply to rural areas. Groups of National Deputies (Godmoletz, Nemirovsky others) to the Prime Minister on the inadmissibility of accepting a draft order from the Ministry of Health "To amend the Ministry of Health order of August 01, 2000 No. 188". Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the activities of a separate government authority in the area of cultural heritage protection. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Deputy Attorney General, Chief Military Prosecutor, on taking steps to properly investigate the deaths of military personnel in the area of conducting the Anti-Terrorism Operation. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa Observatories on the objective review of the collective appeal of residents of House 57 on the street of Academic William Kyiv district of Odessa on the need to plan for the execution of work on the heating of the house and the well-being of the apartment for the sake of adequate sanitary and hygiene standards for safe living. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Odessa Ombudsman, the Odessa Region on the objective review of the collective appeal of Odessa residents, who for more than twenty years have been engaged in the development of beach volleyball in the Kyiv region and have engaged young people in physical and sports activities, in the prevention of reduced accessibility for the Odessa community to beach sports in traditionally formed places, in the provision of all-ordinating assistance and in accompanying the resolution of the issues raised on the merits of conversion. Victor Romanyuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the functioning of the centre of secessionism and the FSB agency of RF in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the cover of the UPC temple MP. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Justice on the non-admission of State registration of discriminatory acts that limit the rights of a child to receive education at the most close to the place of residence of the educational institution, as well as obtaining necessary copies of the findings of legal experts. Irina Souslowy, head of the Ukrainian State Labour Service, Minister of Social Policy for State Control in Employment and Unlawful Advertising of Employment Services. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, on Parliament's monitoring of the state of the network of health and rest facilities for children. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister, President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Education, Rector of the National Technical University of Ukraine, the “Kyiv National Institute of Technology for the Name of the Sikorski Games” for the non-admission of the Faculty of Aviation and Space Systems of the National Technical University of Ukraine, the “Kyiv National Institute of Technology for the Name of Igor Sikorsky” and the destruction of the missile and space sector. Jury Derevyanka's executive responsibility as Head of the State Fiscal Service to prevent an unjustified increase in rent for the special use of water for primary water users (watercanals), which may lead to an increase in tariffs for the population on residential services from water supply and water supply. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the urgent use of measures to prevent the construction of private stockholding companies of the Ukrhydroenergo cascade of hydroelectric power plants on the Dniester River within the territory of Ivano-Frankivsk, Ternopil and Chernovetsk regions, with an appropriate review of the Hydropower Development Programme until 2026. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Infrastructure in charge of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway", head of the Kyiv Authority on the issue of the restoration of the power train No. 6084 Fasts-Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure in charge of the Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, head of the Kiev Administration for the allocation of funds to complete the capital repair of the bridge across the Skirka River. Constantine Jarinic to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on ensuring full, comprehensive and impartial investigation into possible facts of the raiding of agricultural enterprises in the territory of Kirovograd. Constantine Jarinic, acting Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways, Minister of Infrastructure to prevent the reduction of the employees of the node station in the Pomocní Dobrovelike region of Kirovograd region in connection with the planned reorganization of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway". Jury of Berezi to the High Council of Justice on Irina Varga's complaint about the disciplinary misconduct of Judge Zaporozhye District Court of the Dmitr Sakoyan District. Paul Dzüblik to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, deputy head of the State Forestry Agency, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service, deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the Department of Economic Protection, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspection for violations of trees along the roadways in Chernykhiv region. Paul Dzublik to the temporary duty of the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate to pollute the Teter River by the Society with limited responsibility for the "Corostish Paper Factory". Dmitry Timchuk and Paul Dziblik to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the settlement of a complex of problematic issues in the town of town-type City (City Village Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir district) related to its creation and further operation on the basis of Military City No. 6 (Makarov - 1). Dear colleagues, this is where you and I have completed our enquiries, 176 questions that we have registered at this time. We have a dissatisfaction. claims of dissatisfaction with the replies received. We have several statements from distinguished national deputies regarding their dissatisfaction with the answers received. And I invite you to Igor Shurma's word. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u87	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. And as far as the authorities are concerned, I can honestly say, as a national MP, I just don't know what to do. But listen to what's going on. Can a simple person today get an answer to a question that does not even need money and needs solutions? On February 27, taking into account the harsh debates in society, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine Groissman for the lack of original documents on education and citizenship, on the basis of which I was appointed the First Deputy Minister of Health of Uljana Suprun, this request. So in violation of the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, ignoring the law of Ukraine, which provides for a 20-day review procedure, I would like to stress the answer: "After considering your letter of February 27th, the Ministry of Health has been instructed to deal with the matter which you have raised." I'm talking about the documents that are supposed to characterize the so-called. Minister, I'm being sent a letter that she has to answer. What do you think? She gives the answer, but she's got two more weeks. Reply to the Suprun documents, signed by the so-called Minister Suprun, and what she writes is: "In view of the fact that the 32 article of the Constitution does not have personal data on the question of information to provide Suprun Uljana has, cannot. It's signed by Ulysses Suprun. I want to ask you, who was doing the special inspection? I'll speak again. You're hiring a man, don't take it all down like the Prime Minister did today in some personal relationship between a deputy and a temporary minister. There is a Constitution, there are laws of Ukraine, there are requirements for admission to work and for fulfilling their duties. This government, after one person, is undervalued for two years. If the Prime Minister is so pleased with her work, we ask, we demand that you submit this nomination to the Hall. The Opposition Block is ready today to discuss its professional feasibility in terms of execution. Well, that's crazy: they hired a person who has another state's passport, has access to a state secret today, even at the last salary gets 2,100 dollars for working with secret documents, and that's in violation of our legislation. I don't know who to talk to! I'm verbally addressing Groysman again, and there'll be another MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. And in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I want to report on the creation of the eighth interfractional "For the Roads" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Rudik, was elected head of this association. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we want to unite fruitful work and improve the quality of Ukrainian roads, where there are real problems today. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. And after the break, there'll be a traditional section of the national MPs' performances in "The Difference." Therefore, all who wish to speak, join the discussion here, please come and sign up for the discussion on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our plenary session. There's going to be a recording for those national MPs who want to be part of the "Variance" series. I give those of our respectable colleagues who are still in the towers a minute to return to the session room. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're very strict, I'm kinder and more humane, that's why. He's supposed to be the presiding officer. That's why I'm giving you half a minute to come back. I mean, everyone's running back, they're coming back. [[B in m in s a l in]] You always do, always do. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a recording of the performance under the heading "Victory." Please sign up. Just as the automatic queues sound, so you write it down actively. Please, Mr. Oleg! Please, I'm addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine apparatus: draw up a list in capital letters so everyone can see it, please. Everybody happy? Is everyone there? Everybody happy? Please, Mr. Mustafa Nayem opens. Mr. Mustafa Najam is the first to speak and discover our present day. Don't interrupt me anymore, please open the "Victory" series. Please, Mr. Mustafa Nayem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the government, our law enforcement agencies and the High Council committees on the new initiative of the President's Administration to create a new body: the National Bureau of Financial Security. You know, last week in the Supreme Council, this bill was defined as one that should be considered immediately. Unfortunately, during this week we have received very many conclusions on this bill, primarily from the Ministry of Finance, from the National Police, from the Attorney General's Office, and this bill has been brought to the attention of the ambassadors of the G7 countries. The main warning under this bill is that this bill is created as another Ukrainian Security Service, which will be accountable and subordinated only to the President. He appoints the director of the decision of the commission to the head of the body, and he is dismissed by a single decision of the President who makes the decision himself, whether a satisfactory report or an unsatisfactory report after.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u91	Listen, what's going on now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, don't break the "Race" system now. It's actually happening right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, first of all, I ask everyone to sit in the workplace. Please. I'm just gonna give Mustafa Najem three more minutes. You're breaking up now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we are. Take your seats. Mustafa Najem will speak now, and I will make a decision. Please, everyone, take your seats, please! Now, just a minute. Three minutes Mustafa Najemu. I ask that we treat each other with respect, and then we make a decision. Thank you. Now I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. And the government, the heads of Parliament's committees, the President's Administration and our international partners. As you know, last week in the Supreme Council, there was an urgent bill for the creation of a new body, the National Bureau of Financial Security. This organ is created in the vertical of the Presidential Administration. The head of this body will be appointed by a competition commission, and he will be released by the President on the basis of his single decision, which he will take as a result of the annual report. I want to point out that this body has already been opposed by our international partners, the G7 ambassadors, and the negative conclusions of this bill have also been drawn by the National Police, the Ministry of Finance, and the Chief Scientific Authority of the Supreme Council. The main reason why we're opposed to creating this body is because it's not gathering problems from the business that law enforcement agencies are currently putting pressure on. In particular, this bill does not eliminate the department of the National Police, the Security Service and the fiscal authorities, those departments that are pressing business today. Secondly, there will be one of the articles that now refer to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thirdly, under our international obligations under the IMF memorandum, this body should be a civilian body in subordinated to the government, not the President or someone else. Unfortunately, this body is now being created to give the President another important influence on business. Why is this happening? The point is, in the last two years, the President has lost control of the law enforcement agencies. You know that the National Police are now not subject to the Presidential Authority. The Security Service, which has a Department of K and other departments investigating economic crimes, is now under great pressure from the public. The Attorney General's office has already lost its investigative function and has only a supervisory function. Thus, the President's Administration has lost its influential law enforcement body, which they are now trying to bring and create through Parliament. According to my information, the President has promised that the head of this body will be Mrs. Eugene, the author of the bill now proposed to the Supreme Council. We very much want one body to investigate economic crime to appear, but not in the format that is now being created. We want this body to be subordinated to the executive authority so that it is not a specialized law enforcement body that will be accountable to parliament and government. And I hope that we will make the right decision and reject Mrs. Jujanina's bill. We're going to create a single bill based on three alternatives, and we're going to create a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u93	Thank you. No, it's been more than three minutes. I stopped the mess in the hall and added it to all the cheese sisters and brothers. Next, please, Sergey Melniczuk. Sergey Melniczuk is speaking, now he has three minutes. We've worked out a list of those who still have discontents, so go in the individual order. Please. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u94	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine. I want to ask you a question about the protection of the Constitution. 308 years ago, the first Constitution was adopted in Ukraine. It was our ancestors, the Cossacks in the face of Philip the Eagle, who proclaimed this Constitution. At the present time, the Constitution violates all branches of power, especially the President and his branch. Instead of guaranteeing Ukrainian citizens their rights and freedoms, their protection is taken away from them, even the last thing they have is their life, their health. So it was on the anniversary of 308 that the Committee for the Protection of the Constitution was set up. With me and my supporters, the regions of Ukraine are now being visited, where the centers are being created in each region. We will do all we can to unite all the progressive forces left behind after the beginning of the Dignity Revolution, creating a movement that will overcome this fallacy that came on our back and usurped power. We will overcome the resistance of the oligarchs and theirs. Admirers. So radically configured popuas, which helps this President to carry out further usurpation of power that will be sitting together in those prisons, will continue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Did everyone say that? And as a conclusion of all things, I will say, The end shall be swift unto you. And be able to build your own prisons. It's going to be the class where you're going to sit, and if you don't, you're going to be in the mines doing what you do together. The roads will be built by other people, and you will be on the mines. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u95	Thank you, dear colleagues. Please, Bondar, the National MP, invites you to speak. National MP Mikhailo Bondar, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. Dear colleagues, I hold in my hands the ruling of the Central Committee of the Ukrainian Mining Association. They approached me again with all the problems that have now accumulated in the coal sector. It's also the non-payment of wages, it's not, as we were promised, it's not the money we were promised, it's the credit costs that coal mining companies were going to pay for modernization, it's the development of new lavas. But today, when I was talking to the minister who was here at the "hour of questions to the government," he assured me that these funds, which were not implemented in 2017, failed to involve them, had passed as if the government committee and would soon be transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And hopefully, in the near future, the money will go to those enterprises that have developed project and cost documentation, to modernize their businesses, to develop new lavas. Well, in their statement, they did decide to address Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine on the critical situation in the field and on the urgent use of measures to implement the plan of action for the implementation of the concept of reform and the development of coal industry until the 20th year. They also called for the continuation of the moratorium on the bankruptcy of coal - mining enterprises. You know, we passed a bill where by January 1st, 19th, we're banning this kind of bankruptcy. And because the money failed to get involved, actually, look, it's been 18 years, it's been half a year, there's no money involved. So I will also ask if such a bill or amendments to the bill that we have adopted will enter the session room to support this bill in the future. And I'm also asking Energy Minister Nasal Igor Stepanovich to make a change to the state budget for the 18th year of the support for coal companies. Because once again, in the 18th year, those companies were going to go out on their own, but once again, it's hard to believe that no funds were allocated and no mines were being upgraded, so they don't go out on their own, and in the 18th year, they're going to need our help to realize their wages. So in the future, I will ask for your support if only such bills will appear in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agree as follows that we will be working until 14 or 14:15. And then I'm asking you to write a letter to the Supreme Council Secretariat, and let them deal with the "Council" system, if anyone doesn't get into that letter at all. I'll give you six minutes at most. It's not going to be nine minutes, it's going to be ruled out. And we're going to try to make all those who wait for this time, I'm going to be humane to both of you and inhumane to my time, but to make everyone come forward. Only I ask you to consider such a request. Please, this is all about because I don't want anyone nine minutes to listen from the rostrum for at least six minutes. Please, Mr. Halasyuk, not 9 minutes, but 6. And I ask you to delete from Mr. Amelchenk's letter and Halasyuk's, which are on this list, is taken away by Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u98	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Our team is proposing, in principle, a new state policy, an economic policy that will allow for a qualitative change in the lives of every citizen in the country. We have completely different priorities from those that are artificially imposing authority on us today. A government that does not serve the Ukrainian people. Judge for yourself, the government stands are constantly telling us about improvements in international ratings. The Radical Party team believes that a better indicator of the success of reforms is the income of Ukrainians, an opportunity to live in its own country. We're told that they're going to build a successful economy at the expense of foreign loans. They go with their hands open to the International Monetary Fund, to the European Union, and they demand things from us that do not suit national interests at all. Our team of the Radical Party is convinced that we have to make a bet on our own Ukrainian producer. Only this will allow for a strong economy and an increase in the income of every citizen of the country. They're talking about IMF requirements. And have the demands of the Ukrainian society that elected the deputies who elected the President been forgotten? So let's think about these requirements. A decent life in Ukraine for Ukrainians. Not to go abroad, to deny 300 euros to earn, but to work normally, and to live in one’s own country. We're told deregulation is a very fashionable reform. But people don't need deregulation. And it requires a normal level of prices and tariffs, controlled by the state, which is socially fair, economically sound. That's what our Radical Party team is for. The government is trying to sell agricultural land on an on-line basis. Absolutely make a free market so that foreigners, big latifundists, foreign companies, and so on. They want to finally turn our country into a raw colony. In our political power, it's a completely different view. Ukrainians own their land, work for it, and earn their living. To that end, our team has offered an agrarian community that will allow 5,000 dollars of donations for each cow for farmers. This is a qualitative transition from rural degradation to economic development. See for yourself, the grain exports have increased several times over the last seven years. Has the quality of life improved in the countryside, or has someone developed social infrastructure, or have peasants become more profitable? Nothing happened. So the rate for farming development, the rate for agricultural development, to produce ready-made food, to sell around the world, not to be a raw donor to other countries. Over and over again under the slogans, the authorities suggest that the traps be extended to the population. And our team of the Radical Party is convinced that other bets should be made: the childization of the economy, the elimination of large-scale smuggling, the forest rounding alone over the last five years, the smuggling has exceeded $1 billion, think about it, in just one commercial position. So this needs to be corrected, and this is tens of billions of additional funds to the budget, and we don't have to take them out of people, we have to get them out of the shadow economy, we have to cover up the schemes, we don't simulate the fight against corruption, when anti-corruption authorities are used as the weight of political influence, in fact as political players, they have to fight against schemes, they have to suppress them, they're made impossible, and they're not persecuted by those who don't like them. The National Bank has a policy of expensive money. In fact, they are acting under the direction of the International Monetary Fund, not according to the national interests of Ukraine, but according to the interests of Ukrainian society. Our team offers a fundamentally different policy. These are cheap, long loans to entrepreneurs, not just on the expense of taxpayers or the state budget, but on the account of International Financial Assistance. You see, when Ukraine borrows abroad, for example, at the World Bank below 3.5 percent. How much of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, manufacturers, citizens can get that credit? Three times more expensive, at best. Question: "Where does this cost go?" Why feed these parasites, why pay crazy wages at the National Bank when they're not working for Ukrainian interest? We need to fundamentally change the monetary policy of the state, lose credit. These are all fables that can be avoided by increasing government debt, selling agricultural land, privatization, or deregulation. In fact, we have to make a bet on our own production through cheaper loans, through the creation of an export credit agency, through the involvement of foreign and Ukrainian investors, through the industrial parks mechanism, through the adoption of laws on free integration into the engineering networks offered by our team, the Radical Party, and supported by co-authors from all factions and groups of parliament without exception. So we need to radically change the country's economic policy in order to turn the state from the raw material exporter, which we unfortunately are today, into a powerful manufacturer and innovator, where the standard is not emigration, but where the standard is normal, worth living. To earn, to work, to build your own country, and to live in your own home, well, who can disagree? So this is the fundamental position of the Radical Party team: a national economic policy that will allow Ukraine to stop being a donor, become a successful state, and actually improve the quality of life of every citizen. Support this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the address of the National MP, Mr. Aresonkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u100	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Once again, I want to go back to the topic that was this week that caused a sufficiently serious reaction in the session room, very violent speeches by the deputies, the heads of the Supreme Council. The topic was the consideration of draft legislation related to the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl station accident. It is clear that the day before that when we mention another terrible anniversary of the accident, this subject as if to be activated, we are talking about the 16 bills that are on the Supreme Council today, and the importance of meeting the deputies of their duty, their debt to those who have suffered from an accident at CHAES, liquidators, disabled persons, children, and their families. And that's very important. Today I want to thank all the national MPs who participated in both the discussion and the vote. I would like to thank the representatives of the Radical Party separately for initiating the introduction of Bill 4442. [[Applause]] It's a shame he didn't get support in the session room right now, but I'm sure during the committee's consideration we'll find arguments for the government to come to our meeting, and for this bill to be adopted. At the same time, I understand some of the arguments that have been made by critics who say where to find huge funds today. And I want to remind you that the question is broad and complex. And the question is not only in implementation, it's in the implementation of a single bill. Unfortunately, today there is no government program, a complex system program that ended three years ago. And to this day, the government has not responded to our demands that the program be adopted, coordinated, will be able to guide all directions that will be related to the implementation and implementation of Chernobyl issues, and this is the issue of child recovery, this is the question of treating people with disabilities and diseases, this is the question of affected areas that will continue with them. To this day, there is no coordinating body that can fully control and monitor the implementation of these programs. So once again, I urge the government, first of all, to respond to the need to take a systematic approach to the implementation of a program that will ensure that our obligations to citizens who have suffered from an accident continue to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u101	Thank you for your statement, dear colleague. And now Hannah Hopko, who is given the word Vladislav Doub, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u102	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Obviously, we wanted to look at in this Parliament in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution what the world really cares about -- modern technology, artificial intelligence, but it would take us in this Parliament to change even if the Rules and the Supreme Council finally became effective and effective. Friday, according to those bills that are just like Wednesday, would like to be full - time work days so that we can finally separate when the vote takes place, when the discussion and work towards the exhaustion of agenda issues, not just by 18 hours. And then, I think we can look at the bill as much as possible, and efficiency will be better. I very much hope that in May we will be able to discuss and, in particular, adopt very important laws, this is the National Security Act. Yesterday was the final deadline for the amendment. I have made my amendments, which relate, in particular, to parliamentary, civil control, which relates to taking over an economic surveillance function that often turns into pressure on business. And I very much hope that in May we will look at the second reading and adopt a quality modern law, and before the NATO summit in Brussels, which will take place in July, the Ukrainian President, the Ukrainian delegation will go with powerful arguments, and talk to partners about the PPP, and this law will not be blocked. We are also extremely important in the continuation of our anti-corruption reform of the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, despite the enormous, over a thousand amendments that are available, and therefore we need to plan for May to turn into an extremely effective month of work in Parliament, despite the fact that many political powers are already thinking about the presidential and parliamentary elections. Also, colleagues, I'd like to say from this rostrum that it's extremely important for us right now to organize a celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution. Despite extensive work within the framework of modest funding, the Institute of National Memory, there is a lack of adequate attention to this issue, particularly on the part of the Heads of State, Mr. Reinin, the head of the Administration and the head of the government, Vladimir Groissman. We really need these to be noticeable events in the informational, cultural space of the first person, not for the sake of the Jubilees themselves, but because dates such as the 100th anniversary of Ukraine's Independence, 22nd of January, or tomorrow, 22nd of April, are the 100th anniversary of the liberation of Crimea by the Ukrainian army, they are relevant in the light of today's fight against Russian aggression. And that's why we think that it's the timing that should take place at the right level. I'm going to be on this weekend and Monday in Hersonsky on the border with the occupied Crimea to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the liberation of the Crimea by the U.N. Army and together with the people to discuss the problems of the occupied Crimea, and it's very important now that Vladimir Baluch is hungry, and so I urge our government to approach these important dates more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Hopko. And also confident that in May the Law on Safety will be adopted as a whole. I invite you now to the words of the national deputy, Mr. Lozov, Andrew Lozov. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u104	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "The world is quiet, the land is sweet, My Ukraine, Why are you being sacked, What are you dying for, Mom? Are you early before sunrise? I didn't pray to God, Are You Children of Uncertainty Didn't I learn the habit?" Why are they killing the best on the front? What are we fighting for? For what? If today our heroes and families of the dead have neither the State nor, perhaps even more terrifying, the society of proper social protection and support. Throughout the country, a wave of disgraceful violations of the rules of ATO participants or their relatives for free public transportation. Last week, on my home level, the driver of the Revene-Zdolbounov racetrack, he roughed up a warlord in the East, Andrey Tokarcuk. The fighter entered the route and showed the license of the UBD. Instead, the driver asked Andrew, "Where did you come from?" Is that on your head at all? In the end, the man was allowed free of charge, but why so demeaning those who, at risk of life, health, and freedom, on the front of you, defend our right to a peaceful heaven over Ukraine? In the Volin area, a rough - shaped bus driver landed the son of a dead ATO participant, Sergio Guluk Dmitr. The driver forced the child to leave the route by force, grabbing the boy’s hand, tearing the backpack out of his arms, and throwing him into the opposite seat. The house was forced to leave. The driver motivated his act by saying, "I have a lot of people like you." Last night in Kropiwnitsky on Route 134, think about it, threw Susanna's mother's death certificate in the window and laughed in her face. The fighters, the brothers of the late Igit, found this driver and took him to the grave of a dead military man. At the Dniprost in Bloody Rose, the driver named the license of an ATO participant, a defender of the Donetsk Airport, a cyborg named Vladimir Janović, a fig tree. In Kharkiv, Chuguyava, the driver of the Jury route refused to take the fighter and claimed that he would be wanted here if they were not reached on Donbas. The honor and praise of driving this park were immediately released. In Chernobyl, the driver declared to Mikolia Vikonski that he was not going to drive him, and he forcefully pushed the man who had been injured in the war, with disabilities, out of the route. He and his brothers approached the mayor, but they said they had no influence. The City Council found a way to order a router who, again, would refuse to drive the widow of the fallen hero, Alexander Boyk Svetlana. The driver was sent to the ATO area at the expense of a carrier with humanitarian aid for our fighters. In Kiev a nine - year - old son of a dead hero, Anatoly Koval, Yuri, was also refused to drive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u105	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u106	Honorable colleagues, such stories of hundreds around the country, are a direct violation of the laws on transport and the status of war veterans. The Radical Party initiates memoranda in all local councils on the respectful treatment of ATO participants between motorists and local councils. Let's honor our heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Yegor Soboljev. Please, Mr. Yegor. His fellow national MP, Paul Kostenko, conveys the word to Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u108	I want to support the Chinese who are fighting for the preservation of our city's history. There is no need to explain in Parliament what history really means. This week, many Chinese demanded that Kyivrada create a museum in the Postal Square. The construction of the shopping center there opened up the 19th century, the time of the legendary Kiev Russia. The floods of that time preserved, physically preserved, not the ruins, but the remains of those houses, streets, and sidewalks. And this is a unique opportunity for all of us, including answering Vladimir Putin's allegations that Ukraine is an idea, Ukraine has not existed, Ukraine is not a state. Besides, no doubt this is a huge opportunity for teaching yourself and our children, and a huge tourist value. And all of this could be destroyed if the city, if the mayor of the city, if the community allows it. Another problem now on the map of Kiev is the Andriyovski Vistula. Similarly, there are probably no people to explain the meaning of this city. The nine - story hotel in the forbidden zone, which will distort the sights of all of us, which will distort another part of the city’s history, plans to build a construction site, no doubt involving high offices, government leaders, and government. Even near my house, in Pavlovsksk Square, by the way, whose landscapes have been preserved since the time of the Kiev Russia, the same Kiev Russia, the Sovkovic family, the Sovkovic family, who was involved in the race of the peaceful student Euramydan, still dreamt of building right in the park itself. I'm sure in the city of three revolutions, I'm sure, along with the Kyiv community, I'm sure that, along with the real representatives of the people of Kyivrad and here in Parliament, we won't do that. This week, Kiev’s deputies have already approved the first reading of the decisions banning these constructions. As a national deputy, I asked the mayor not to allow the construction technology to be imported into Pavlovsk Square, Kiev should remain proud, capital, and the inspiration of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u109	Thank you for your performance. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenk, who is given six minutes. He is given his word by Deputy Lesjuk, and Krivenko himself signed up for the performance. Please, Mr. Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u110	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there are protests in Armenia now, and I would like to uphold the peaceful right of citizens to protest. The Ukrainians ’ peaceful protest, which was then turned into a bloodbath because they did not listen to the peaceful protest, caused the Ukrainians to break free from the mythical swans of the Customs Union. Armenia went the other way, I'm not interfering with internal affairs, the sovereign state. But I urge the authorities to hear a peaceful protest, and in no case do they lead him into armed opposition, because now the authorities that are in control of the media are saying, "Do you need Maidan? (on Protestants) Do you want some of the territory taken away from you, too?".. And we wanted to take all of Ukraine. And unfortunately, there's a military base in Armenia already, and there's a lot of questions in the airport, and there's a lot of questions, but again, this is a sovereign state, and we respect Armenia. I'm just calling on the authorities to hear from their people. Today, this week, Ukrainians have taken a huge step toward another return to their European family. The Supreme Council voted in favour of petitioning the Patriarch of Constantinople Warfolomy concerning the One Massacre Church. I want to thank yesterday's supporters, who came to the 6th musical battalion, who quickly mounted the scene, there were over 150 motorists who were able to assemble quickly on the working day, who were representatives of other political forces. And to say that the disgraceful argument used by conscious or unconscious proponents of the "Russian world" that power seems to be interfering with church affairs is an absolute lie. Because the church hierarchy itself, and the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church, and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, approached the patriarch themselves. And the patriarch asked: What is the position of secular authority? I mean, because I don't want to create a conflict in society. And she was expressed. In contrast, there's Hanna Hopko in the hall when she protested when, at the request of Patriarch Cyril, Ukrainian authorities changed the name of Mazepa Street to Lavrska Street because, you see, he can't go to the Ukrainian city and he's ordering politics. When individual Moscow pops did not sing the boys who died in the east. When in Zaporozhye a little boy was refused to sing. And when they kept their weapons in their monasteries, and when they sanctified the weapons that kill the Ukrainians. And that's what they call interference and that kind of pharisaicism. But yesterday’s vote really showed who was who. I sincerely believe that some have simply been confused in this matter and have repented in their souls. The next question, which is very important, is the question of resilience. Our Odessa motorists came to Parliament. You know, according to my statement and supported by more than 30 national deputies, Mr. Truhanov was in court for thefts at the Krayan factory. Sadly, I think he was able to agree with the judicial system. And they continue to rob the Ukrainian city of Odessa. And what they stole quite recently is 288 hectares, including, in fact, the only one in the south of the military airport. The head of the Ukrainian Security Service, in Odessa, said that there was a threat because the Russians had almost completely restored the military airport in Transnistria. And we have aunts taking out fences from the military because the Odessa City Authority handed over this territory to a private firm. And the answers to where the original documents came from are the official answer from the Border Service that the original documents are in the Russian Federation's FSB. How can that be? Why does the secretary of defense not send a company there, a battalion, to prevent anyone from entering the military airport? Why isn't the President involved? I urge all who are responsible to take this situation under personal control. And either officially say we don't need it, or still stop the vacchanal that's going on in Odessa. Volunteers also spoke yesterday. It is a disgrace that the Ukrainian state does not recognize those who first went to Ukraine to defend themselves. And we demand that a suitable bill be put to the vote, which the "Freedom" colleagues have long registered. Over a thousand motorists have already made their way to the front. And we have, unfortunately, both the dead and the wounded. I was in front of Easter in Luhansk, in Svetlodarsk, where our "Warta Ruhu" has been at war since March 2014 and has immediately gone to defend Ukraine. And we certainly support all the requirements of volunteer recognition. What Jegor Sobolev said is very important. It is only right that we should keep Kyiv as he was. Because it's barbarism, trying to build these multi-story floors on the Andrian East. And the MPs, 123 of the people's deputies went to the Kiev authorities to create a square of Vasil Blindak, our legendary hero, who died in the east. That's three more than the deputies in the city council itself. Everyone promised. And somehow there's nothing going on again, and they're winning again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u111	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u112	Once again, some of these inner culinary interests are overcome. And building for someone there is more important than memory. And to create a Ukrainian space where there's going to be a constant Ukrainian song of the moon, that's our gay park.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to the words of Paul Kishkar, who is now receiving, I'm sorry, six minutes. And then there's the tree boy. It's just that there's a difficult and complex system of interchange, and there's a relationship. Thank you. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u114	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor. A few words about sports reform. We had the honor of being present with the president of the karate Federation and with other colleagues on the youth and sports committee, and it's amazing that the idea of overcoming corruption in medicine, in education, in the area of distribution of funds, in mass sports has to go to the plane of money to follow a child, for the use of something is not understood, everyone wants to sit on streams, stay on the distribution of these funds. And the system that perceives this, both Minochron Health and the Minosveti, will somehow not reach the heads of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, although it was announced at the beginning of the cadence of Minister Zhdanov’s position that in mass sports the money moves to the plane of distribution, the money follows the child. We have been helped in this regard by decentralization. Because the financing of children's sports schools has already been transferred to places and problems, such as financing the initial stage of the establishment of athletes, the issue now stands in order to set up a system of responsibility of local authorities in order to ensure that one of the indicators, such as the R & D in mass sports, is relied on by these communities. I think that in the near future we will be able to explain to the ministry, and this room, that this is the Law that acts, about physical culture and sports contradicts, is fundamentally contrary to the Olympic Charter and does not allow to the fullest extent, particularly the National Olympic Committee, to realize its rights and responsibilities under this Charter. It's very strange that we still haven't had a complaint against the International Olympic Committee: neither the Federation nor the sportsman. Noting that the State is not able to govern sports as we do in the law in force in article 5. Many of the comments on the committee were that the federations were impotent, that they couldn't provide the right distribution of funds, that they couldn't guarantee their proper distribution, just the opposite. And on the same committee was the president of the Federation of Water Jumps, who, on her own example, confirmed that a successful federation, successful managers of any kind of sport can make athletes qualitatively into champions, result and medals. And for some reason, there are no problems in public authorities with the provision of funds to public organizations, to veterans, for example, to youth. Such an arrangement is carried out, their reporting is transparent, and responsibility is provided for by the Administrative Code and the Criminal Code. And these officials who spend these public funds do not avoid the responsibility that exists and is provided for by appropriate valid legislation. A few words about reforming Parliament itself. We voted on the management system on the committees behind the D’Ondt system. But by the way, there are two other instruments to speed up Parliament's work, such as voting by a majority of those present, when it comes to reading first, second reading, and leaving the active system in 226 for the adoption of laws in general. As well as the system that would remove the legislative spam, 6640 proposed that a certain number of authors should be identified as legislators for the legislative initiative, so that, firstly, such a bill would have further support in the hall and have some quality work in view of the various political factions and political forces. One of the main issues in the state is the development of our most important decentralization reforms, in my opinion. The People's Movement is the leader of such reform and is present in all of the united communities, and we are taking a good part in all the electoral campaigns to the united territorial communities and we will accept, we will have the opportunity on 29 April to participate in the elections to the united territorial communities. We're actually saying that money is already in the community, and now there's still this reform to strengthen, to reinforce two legislative ideas, namely: cancelling or eliminating district councils and re-maintenances, and by supporting the agreement to join the cities of district importance, we have this tool to develop with understandable mechanisms, to prescribe and move on to the next stage of decentralization reform, namely the preparation of the Ukrainian Law on Administration from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u115	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u116	Thank you. . With the release in 2020 for elections to the united local communities. And the People's Movement is going to be doing this for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Derevyanko, to whom the word Mustafa Naijem is addressed. And then there's Mrs. Handsome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u118	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! You and I, thanks to the work of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, have learned that in Ukraine there was a huge amount of gas that was being stolen, and we have learned that what turns out to be, we can steal billions of Ukrainian bracelets on gas circuits after the Dignity Revolution. And this was done by deputies who were sitting here, particularly Mr. Oneshchenko, who received a suspicion from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and a criminal case that is now being investigated. At the same time, we heard a few days ago from the same Oneshchenk, who is now a suspect, who is a fugitive, what he appears to have been doing with his partner, Dustenk. And not only did he do that, but he also said that he offered Mr. Dustenk $10 million in bribes from Mr. Zločevsky is one of the pillars of the Yanukovic regime, which is also being prosecuted in criminal order, which also stole a huge amount of money from the Ukrainian people and in the Ukrainian budget. Little has been said in these records that Mr. Zločevski is willing to give up 50 percent of the gas business, which he also continues to run actively in Ukraine. And what do we see? That it's virtually no different from Yanukovic, we see the same 50 over 50, we see the same phrases and words that a nice guy, we'll think about, we'll figure it out. And we don't see any reaction from law enforcement today. We demand a criminal case based on the fact that this information is received and made public. We demand that the NABS immediately submit information to the GDR about a criminal offence and investigate it. I would like to remind you that in South Korea, for the same bribe of $10 million, President Park Kin Hee was sentenced to 24 years of impeachment, a procedure of criminal prosecution, and a fine equivalent to $17 million. And in Ukraine we see total silence. Not enough, we see that the Dusty regime is actively persecuting those who talk about it today, including our New Forces Movement team. We see that Severion Dongadze is in prison today, being tortured, locked up in a small room 2 by 2 without windows, without anything in the SISO, and released only once every three days. We can see that in Odessa we cut down the boards on which it hangs, all of which is a shambles that have been made public. In Ivano-Franksky, someone else's property was sealed. Dmitry Dobusha was burned by three microbuses in Zaporozhye. I want to tell you that Dusty is properly afraid of the Ukrainians and the New Forces Movement team. Because our neighboring Georgia, one of our leaders of the New Forces Movement, has cleaned up the bandits, the oligarchs, given people the opportunity to work there, and this will definitely happen in Ukraine. We tell the Ukrainians: Do not be afraid, get up, resist, and we will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u119	Next speech, please, National MP. People's Deputy Zaporozko, please have a word with me. It's an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u120	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to a very painful question for every Ukrainian, about the state of the road. I am approached almost every day by Ukrainian citizens with a request to resolve this issue immediately, for it is a matter of the health and life of every Ukrainian. I want to ask the authorities how many billions can be buried in the pit repairs? How much can you do in imitation of reform and in imitation of spending money on road repair rather than putting it in your own pocket? If we want normal roads, we've repeatedly said, like the Radical Party team, that it's going to be the toughest responsibility for stealing the funds that it takes to ban this pit repair, because it's a secret money theft that doesn't solve the problem at all. I also want to draw your attention to the state of the roads in the Donetsk region, because this is a strategic direction, a strategic direction that moves towards an ATO area of military technology, a special composition of the Armed Forces, volunteers, international observers, and, above all, Ukrainians living in the Donetsk region. (Please show the slides). Today my assistant, Yuri Parfionov, sent these slides. On these slides you can see the Zaporozhye-Kuybisheva-Mariupol route through Rosovka, Pagoda and Orikh. This is a mile [224 km] route, of which there are no roads. This is the state of the roads in the Donetsk region. The second route is Mariupol-Berdansk-Tokmak-Wassilovka-Zaporozhya. 268 kilometers in the same condition. There is no road on Mariupol-Berdansk-Tokmak-Basilovka road. There are no roads along Mariupol – Volnovah – Wüszar - Kurahov, Selidové, Pokrovsk, Dobropil, Kramatorski - road. There are no roads at the Wallovah-Wuidar-Kurahova, Selidov-Pokrovsk-Dobropil-Kramatorsk. There are no roads left in the Donetsk region. Therefore, the Radical Party team takes over the road repair situation in the Donetsk region personally and closely. We demand that the authorities stop the looting of road repairs, restore Ukraine’s transit potential immediately. We demand that the authorities preserve the lives and health of every Ukrainian who are at risk every day because of such a terrible condition of roads in the Donetsk region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u121	Thank you, dear colleague. And Igor Mosiyczuk is invited to the floor. Igor Mosiyczuk, you're welcome. You don't hear the cheers of the head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u122	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Over the past two weeks, the Poltavska and Lviv District Councils have approved a decision to refer to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament, requiring support for the agricultural programme of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka. What's going on? It is the definition of a farmer on Ukrainian soil by making changes to the Constitution that will define agriculture as an agricultural arrangement in Ukraine. The other one. This is about grants, namely that Oleg Láška, the Radical Party, insists that subsidies for each cow in the Ukrainian village should be at least 5,000 dollars, regardless of whether it is a farm cow or a farm. In addition, we propose to establish, and this is a requirement of society to establish, Ukrainian agriculture, a minimum price of 5.50 for milk. Because when water spilled from a puddle costs more than Ukrainian milk, it's not just shameful, it just destroys Ukrainian agriculture and Ukrainian peasants. And finally. The Poltava and Lviv District Councils fully support the bill proposed by the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka on the prohibition of the use of palm oil in food products. Because palm oil in food products is death for the Ukrainian, the quiet death of people who consume Ukrainian health, the air conditioning industry, the food industry, and so on. In this connection, our faction demands that the bill be brought to the fore in May and that the Ukrainians be protected at last. Get the palm oil out of the food production that's happening in Europe right now, for example, last week it happened in Iceland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u123	Thank you, Sir Mosiyczuk. And here's a speech from the national deputy wolf. Please. Now it's not from the factions, so I'm just going by the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u124	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljasko, took part in the 21st Kiev Security Forum, an influential international platform to discuss global and European security issues with leading foreign politicians and experts. Oleg Lazko expressed our vision of the challenges of world security in the context of the nuclear disarmament lessons of Ukraine. Because the world is on the verge of chaos: borders are being despised, international law is being trampled, and the guarantees given are being ignored. Little wonder, then, that a number of nations have never acceded to a nuclear nonproliferation treaty and view it as the most reliable means of external aggression. And the number of candidates for membership in the nuclear club is increasing. This is India and Pakistan, Israel, North Korea, Iran, and this is the new candidate, Saudi Arabia. Since 2014, they have every reason to do so. The world was surprised to see that the guarantees given to Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum in exchange for the refusal of nuclear weapons were not fulfilled by those who gave them. Ukraine, which has given up the third nuclear arsenal in the world, has been the victim of aggression by Russia, and the Budapest Memorandum’s signatories do not fulfil their obligations or even silence its very existence. Think of the disgraceful 50-minute speech by US Vice President Joe Biden in this rostrum, where there was no mention of our nuclear disarmament or of our security and territorial integrity assurances. Last week, in a speech at the Kiev Defense Minister's Forum, there was no room for this issue, and some of our partners even advise us to accept that the Budapest Memorandum did not work and turn the page. Like most Ukrainians, Oleg Laska’s Radical Party does not agree with this advice. We don't take unilateral nuclear disarmament of Ukraine as a side of history. The Radical Party demands the fulfilment of its commitments under the Budapest Memorandum, otherwise nuclear weapons can spread around the world and threaten the future of all mankind. Ukraine’s protection of the civilized world is absolutely necessary to provide a peaceful, nuclear - free sky for children all over the planet. He stated all of this at Oleg Lazko’s Forum, to restore peace, international law and order in Ukraine and the world, and to preserve them for future generations the responsibility of all responsible world leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u125	Please welcome national deputy Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u126	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Traditionally, dear colleagues, I am trying to take advantage of the opportunity on Friday to raise from the highest parliamentary rostrum the problems that concern the electorate of my district. And I want to say that at a time when there's a lot of government thinking about how to raise the Ukrainian economy, the simplest and most effective way in this direction should be to rebuild Ukrainian roads. This has been done by so many countries in the world. There's a successful experience today with these projects and I'm in the district directly. Over the last three years, we've been able to rebuild the Stopchats-Kosov road, Kosovo-Verkhovina, Kosovo-Cuts, Tuts-Tubs, Upper Yasenev-Usterika, and it's not easy to rebuild this road. Restoring these roads is a tremendous impetus for the development of these regions. This is a powerful example when the state spends a bracelet and gets 2 bracelets as taxes on government and local budgets. But is that enough? I don't think so. Because the roads restored are only 20 percent of what is needed today in Gutsulcia and Pokkatta. In fact, in today’s talk, I want to draw attention to the absence of a normal connection with the Cosmic united territorial community. I want to point out that the community is one of the highest-ranking regional communities in Ukraine. The Cosmic united territorial community is the largest community in the territory. The Cosmic united territorial community is a community where the most preserved traditions that have always distinguished traditional Ukrainian Gutzulščina are the most preserved. Unfortunately, however, this community is limited in its development because of the simple possibility of reaching this community because of the lack of road. That's why I'm turning from this high-rise to the head of the district administration, the head of the district council, and the leadership of the Krauttodor. Given that this year's National Road Fund Act, which envisions 272 million dollars to solve the problem of local roads, I ask you to predict how to at least 50 million dollars per road to Pisten Kosmach by 2018. Convinced that the release of this amount will not only allow for the restoration of an extremely important road to this united territorial community in the near future. But these costs will be reimbursed in the form of taxes paid by this united community, which will be able to pay when the basic road is restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u127	Thank you. The next speakers are Andrew Illenko, then Sidorovich and Bereza. Just to get everyone ready. Then there'll be Silantiev. So, Mr. Illenko, I invite you to your word. Everyone, as promised, I just have a list.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u128	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Today, here, there was a government in the walls of Parliament. A lot has been said, but unfortunately it has not been heard at all from the Prime Minister, from other ministers as they are going to stop the mass exodus of Ukrainians abroad. How they will fight to ensure that Ukrainians do not have to, because of the hardship, go looking for a better fate elsewhere, but stay in work, develop business, find a job in Ukraine. As our budget fills, whether there will be an offshore fight, whether there will be a battle against monopolies, or whether there will be a fight against oligarchs. But that's not what we heard. And actually, "Freedom" so that we don't be loud, not speak in slogans. We offer a concrete way out of poverty, a real way out of prosperity, to build a strong, rich Ukraine. Because of our anti-oligarchy package of radical transformations, bills that have been in Parliament for years, but unfortunately no one is going to approve them. And these are anti-offshore, anti-monopoly bills that introduce new tax legislation that relate to energy and other spheres that we think are absolutely revolutionary, that will bring Ukraine wealth and power. And I would like to say that, aside from the fact that we are now gathering in Parliament the signatures of MPs to support these bills, the situation is now more than 70, and we want to continue to gather, we urge the people's deputies to sign under this reference. We've been running for a moment, actually all over Ukraine, and the local councils are approving the decision to support our anti-oligarchy package. The Hmelnitsk City Council, Drogbytské měszska, Kotelevska oblasta, Černivetské mišska, Turijské selishna, Lvivské district, Bahmatka miška, Brodivska oblast, Rivněnské mišska, Korostišovské district, Ratnivské district, Biloczerkowska miška, Cherkaská miška, Buska district, Lvivské mišice was approved today by the Ternopilsk City Council and the Rokitansk district council of the Kyiv region. So all of Ukraine, this wave continues, and all of Ukraine shows its acceptance of these laws and requires the Supreme Council not to delay but to adopt these decisions against the oligarchs and for the benefit of all the Ukrainians. And finally, I would like to take this opportunity to invite all of April 28-29 to the traditional honor of Ukrainian heroes in the Cold Spring. It will indeed be a glorious event, for all the patriots, for all the Ukrainians we invite to remember our history to be satisfied with this Ukrainian spirit, to feel the connection of generations with Cossacks, Haydamaks, Ukrainian soldiers who fought against the Bolsheviks in the 20th century, and with our modern heroes who defend Ukraine in the east. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Mr. Andrew, so, 28th or 25th? 29th. Dear colleagues, let me join you in this important invitation, thank you all, the annual organizer of the cold holidays and invite everyone to Cherkaščina from 28 to 29 April. Dennis Silantiev is invited to the floor, really, now it's his turn. And then the national deputy Sidorovich and Bereza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u130	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, from this rostrum in my speech I raised the issue of outright disorder and lawlessness, which is taking place in the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, and asked the law enforcement authorities to give a legal assessment of these actions. I received a response from the National Anti-Corruption Agency, where they said clearly black in white that in the compatibility of two positions, namely, the position of the first Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine and the President of the Federation of Light Athletics of Ukraine, Igor Gutula, is a conflict of interest and a corruption component. So far, the materials have been transferred to court, we are awaiting judgment, and I hope that he will be fair and just. Unfortunately, this next time shows the real face of the leadership of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. Instead of fighting for the health of every Ukrainian, for the health of every child, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, its leadership uses its knowledge and skills so that even those coins that are allocated to the development of physical culture and sports in Ukraine can be placed in their pockets and wallets. You know, as a person who's spent his whole life giving to Ukrainian sports, I'm not going to sit back and watch how physical culture and sports in Ukraine go down. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party will require the government in the second half of this year to allocate funds for the development of infrastructure and for the development of the program. Implementation of the sport infrastructure development programme in Ukraine. But. If we're going to build sports complexes, schools and cultural centers, if we don't, then we're going to be prisons. I think in that case, the conclusion will be obvious that we need to build first. Next. A major problem with existing sports infrastructure. A simple example. The city of Kiev, which had a stadium called "The Start", one "beautiful day" (in coffee pots), the city council voted on various occasions and changed the purpose of this stadium. Now there's another housing complex. To prevent this from happening, this is taking place all over Ukraine to prevent this from happening in order to preserve the infrastructure that still exists, a team of the Radical Party led by Oleg Ljashko initiated a bill that introduces a moratorium to change the purpose of land for the construction of physical and sports objects. This moratorium will allow for the preservation of the existing sports infrastructure that is still in existence and that is being tried by some sales officials. You know, our children have the right to be healthy, educated and successful, and especially to grow up safe. And the state must do everything possible to ensure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u131	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u132	To ensure these conditions, not to invent different excuses, not to do so. The Radical Party faction will do everything in its power not to ruin the future of our children and the future of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u133	People’s deputy Sidorovich is invited to attend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u134	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. Justice. Justice is what every Ukrainian seeks from the west to the east, from the south to the north. What Is Justice? It's when the state, promising its citizens certain guarantees, then in the next one, executes them. What do we have today in the state? The 169 thousand decisions handed down by the Ukrainian courts, where the state is in debt, have not been implemented for many years. The problem has already come to such a colossal point that we stand in half a step before applying sanctions to Ukraine on the side of the Council of Europe, which is tired of convincing. To convince Ukraine that judicial decisions must be implemented and guarantees issued by the State must be ensured. At the same time, a year ago, when a subcommittee was created to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, it began to produce its first results. Yesterday, at an interministerial working group meeting called for by my initiative, a real active mechanism was developed to enable the state to fulfil all its obligations to those 160,000 Ukrainians who had been unable to obtain a fair trial for years. On the other hand, there's still a bed of tar. Having solved the problem of decisions that have not been made in years, the State must create a system in which such problems will not occur again. After all, a Ukrainian who has gone seven rounds of hell through the judicial system must not pass 27 rounds of hell in an effort to enforce a court order. What is the execution of a judgment? This is a guarantee of judicial authority. Court decisions that are not implemented make the existence of judicial authority meaningless. There is no third branch of power, there is no democracy. There is no democracy, there is no respect for human rights, there is no future in the state. And young people are starting to leave this country, business is starting to shut down and move out. So, on the one hand, we welcome that the common mechanism for paying 169 thousand Ukrainian citizens waiting for payment, but we will seek to reform the system of enforcement in such a way that once again hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians will not have to seek the truth again in Strasbourg without finding it in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u135	And thank you for your timely presentation. Borislav Bereza, to whom Hanna Hopko gave the floor, invites him to speak. Please, please, I'm asking you very much, here's the head while I'm at it, with your permission. And the next word, please, National Deputy Chižmar, please. And then Borislav will come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. For two days, residents of the Lower Upsha Zakarpat district block the Mukacheva Rakhov road, protesting no social policy in the country, they do not demand benefits, and they do not ask for subsidies or subsidies, they demand justice. Justice calls for all villages for a small Carpathian family. On March 14, the 14th of last month, on March 14, a horrendous murder was committed by two 14 - year - olds who killed their friend while detaining only one, although the village was small and everyone knew the circumstances of the matter. Twenty days later, the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal released an arrest without a bracelet. Why am I answering this question from this rostrum? raise to Minister Habakkuk, Attorney General Lucenk and the head of the National Police Princes? Because there is no law in this matter. And I, knowing the situation in that village, I understand that not the Criminal Procedure Code is in charge of this case right now, it's the bablo, the money. A village where traditional smuggling, where money is more than you think. And you've seen very often those four-to-five-story houses that tourists sometimes visit to see how they can build. Yeah, money. Why, why are they keeping only one person? Another, whose father was a smuggler, was not detained. The village knows. Why does the Court of Appeal intervene and, after giving a local court one month to detain a person, leave in 20 days, and the police do not wear a bracelet, and he walks freely in the village, indignant the population, visiting picnics and social institutions? Impunity, law - enforcement stupidity, greed, and corruption produce both impunity and cruelty, which will be unleashed in social protests tomorrow. So I appeal to the law enforcement authorities to take personal control (this is not an easy matter) and to bring the matter to trial as soon as possible. Thankfully, I have read today that after the destruction of the second population, it appears that the accused has been found and detained. He lived quietly in the village. This once again tells us that law enforcement reform has failed. Corruption remained there, money was loved as it was, and today there is no justice for the population of law - enforcement agencies and the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Borislav Bereza is now invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u138	I am officially addressing Mr. Ostap Semerak, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. I ask you, Mr. Ostap, to anticipate and allocate a budget for the allocation of borders and their introduction to the "Golosiussky" National Natural Park. With the park’s unintroduced borders, there are constant violations of the park’s boundaries, as is the case in the bull’s workshop, which is constantly destroyed and cut in order to build a TRC and a gas station there. In his decree, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine gave the Chinese and Ukrainians the opportunity to breathe and rest, and he gave Kiev his lungs. But we can see that now the Voice Park is being destroyed, systematically destroyed. The Czernowetsk and Klitschka mayors are building Kiev as they can by destroying any green plantation. You have a chance, Mr. Secretary, to continue President Yashchenk's plan to protect and preserve the National Natural Park. Help the park determine its limits, and we, the Chinese, the activists, the MPs, can't cross the boundaries of this park. We will protect the park's borders and the enemy will not be able to destroy and build this green part of Kiev. In general, it is very embarrassing to see how the green capital of Europe is left entirely with concrete mazes. I realize that those who live in Kiev now want to live in Kiev for the rest of their lives. But perhaps those who run Kiev, the future of their children and see themselves in Vienna, London, Washington, San Francisco, and other cities of the world, but not in Kiev for a hundred percent. Because if you plan to live in this city, you will not destroy it or cut down the trees so that only buildings, TRCs, and gas stations will remain. I ask you to consider my speech as an official statement and an address to the Minister of Ecology. And the last. Despite the faction of who, of which group, we all work and live now in Kiev. So I ask you all to take part in my appeal and support it, because what is happening to Kiev right now is ridiculous and violent actions in terms of both the capital of Ukraine and China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Please describe Borislav Bereza's speech as a parliamentary address. I now invite you to the speech of the People’s Deputy of Semimenich, who is given the right to speak by his colleague Sobolev. And I'd like to consult you, dear colleagues. I'll continue our session for 15 minutes. We still have Igor Shurma, 6 minutes, and Oleg Lazka, 6 minutes, because they're handing over colleagues. And we have a couple of deputies who wrote complaints that they didn't get into the record. Do you mind if we give the People's Deputy the right to the Gollock, Barney and Sporish, because then three weeks later, we'll be apart. Two minutes, two minutes. As chairman, I'll make that decision. Please, Mr. Semenha. And thank you all for humanism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u140	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. First Vice Speaker, distinguished Ukrainian citizens! There comes another plenary week of the Supreme Council's work, which was still to update the Central Electoral Commission's personal composition. It's a shame, dear colleagues, that, in fact, for the fourth year of the Supreme Council's eighth cadence, we still haven't updated the composition of the Central Electoral Commission for various reasons, which are very often, as a minimum, misunderstood to people. What's more, I'll tell you that 13 members of the 15th Central Electoral Commission are actually no longer valid because their cadence is over. And that's why this raises the question of any decision that the Central Election Commission has to make, including the nearest election to the united territorial communities that will take place in Ukraine on 29 April. I'll remind you of the story of the question. Because it was the previous cadence, the seventh cadence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that would update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission, because 12 of the 15 members had completed their mandate in June 14th, and the term of office of 13 members of the Central Electoral Commission ended last year. So there is a huge question: Is the Central Election Commission legitimate today? And in order to update, the former Supreme Council office adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, where it removed the rule of non-admissibility, inadmissibility, prohibition of members of the Central Electoral Commission from participating in its meetings if their mandates were over. In general, it is important to say that the use of people in the status of performing duties has become a new trend in authority. Note that for a long time, most of the members of the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the Human Rights Commissioner, and many district and district heads were present. Because it is very convenient to direct people like this: on the one hand, criminal conduct is violated and, on the other hand, people are in a status of executive responsibility, and it is so convenient and easy to influence and obtain a politically motivated decision. However, I think that if we don't update with you, colleagues, the Central Electoral Commission, it actually questions not only the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, but perhaps the legitimacy of the next Parliament. So we urge everyone in the next plenary weeks to address this problem. But the CCE problem is not the only one in terms of ensuring the quality of the electoral process. I think Parliament needs to consider, and there's an appropriate registered bill, an electronic bill, an electronic protocol. Because today, after the vote is over, the country can get results in some places for weeks. And today, as members of the regional electoral boards with humiliation, as in the feudal system, several hundred years pass a ballot, well, it degrades the electoral process itself. Well, it is certainly a new electoral code, where the Ukrainian national deputies, who we have approved with you in the first reading, should be adopted in general, where the Ukrainian national deputies will be elected in proportion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u141	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u142	After open lists with regional districts. This will give quality to the new Parliament and ensure the legitimacy of its process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Please welcome Igor Šurma. I'd like to have a word with you. And I think we're all hoping to elect a new election committee in May. Igor Šurma has six minutes. I've talked about it. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u144	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I was moved to come to the rostrum today as a result of the work of our Supreme Council this week. There must be a record of ineffective activity, because this week we have managed to adopt only one Act 6689 on military duty and military service and one decree is the Bill of Support for the President of Ukraine's Address to Universal Patriarch Bartholomew on Tomos' Car Cafe of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. And that's it. And this is at a time when we have huge health problems, no health - care issues have been brought here. You know, everyone's tormenting themselves about how to unify this hall. It is just that the Presidencies need to be passed in a working week by the Law 4074, which in the first reading supported 276 deputies from different factions. Complete consolidation applies to clinical studies and clinical trials. Put him in the hall. We'll know what they're giving the Ukrainians in our hospitals today. No, they don't. Why do we have such an event today with regard to the issue of health care? Because there's not a torpedo that's supposed to be called "the Minister of Health," which will defend not only the rights of health workers, but also the rights of patients. Why isn't she there? And the whole point is that for two years in a row, the Prime Minister does not comply with Ukraine's law, the 9th article of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and does not introduce it for appointment. Many want to say that there is a personal conflict today between a member of parliament and temporarily performing duties. I want to make a statement today to the whole of Ukraine: I have no doubt about Mrs. Suprun's certain virtues. I don't believe she can do bribes and corruption. Why? Well, can bribes and corruption be done by a person who has 100 million dollars in bank accounts and in credit unions? 100 million dollars. Is it possible for her to resort to a bribe? I don't believe it. Moreover, she is an honest taxpayer, and not only does she pay from her salary of 30,000, which she receives, taxes in Ukraine, she also pays for today's insurance policy, which is in the United States, $1,700. It has, at the expense of the Pension Fund, which is in the United States, today, half a million dollars, or ours is almost 15 million dollars. That is why I believe in her integrity in this regard. Can I doubt that she is a patriot of Ukraine? I have no doubt. She got a passport from the President. Well, it's not her fault there's no civil code. Well, why there's no civil order, I don't get it. She's a patriot, deep down, because she still respects the country where she grew up. She didn't give up the citizenship of another state, and the passport holds, and her bills are in that country. And it pays all the wages it receives from taxpayers, Ukrainian citizens. So I have no reason for her, no doubt. More than that, she is. It's not her fault she's not being assigned. Please enter a candidature and the hall will determine whether it will support or not. This is the first one. And she, the poor thing, doesn't even know what to do and what to say here because she's become a hostage. Apparently for that reason, yesterday or yesterday, she went to Washington, and my friends saw her at the airport, and she went there. No one knew whether she was on her way out today or whether she was on any personal business. This is called the reason we have in health care. And while she is gone, let’s see who’s in charge of health care. I'm going to read to you who we have in our health care and why we're doing this. Graduated from Sukhomlinsky College, the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, with the specialty of "language and literature" (English, German), the distance course of Ohio University "Planning a project using the approach of involving all interested parties", Master of Philosophy, Deputy Minister. Let's see what we have. The following is a person with a medical education, a doctor, and a doctor, Lynchevski. Experience with the organization of work, you'll hear about it. He graduated from the Institute in 1999. 2002 General Workshop, France. 2007 Course in the European School. Bergamo. Oncology training, Paris. Seminar of the European Community of Prague, Czech Republic Salzburg Seminar, Salzburg, Austria 2008 Lung surgery course. Bergamo, Italy. European School of Antalya, Turkey 2009 Oncology European Learning Conference, Switzerland. European School, France 2011 European School of Russian-speaking Torical Surgery, Practice and European Associations, France 2012 European School of Toracino Surgery I can't read it. One course and one lesson. And today this person has a conscience to say that our medical units do not provide medical education. Either he admits not to his expertise, or let him explain why 66,000 doctors have gone to Europe today and find work there. Do you think we're going to get through this reform so easily? There's no, I can't say, very much doubt. Today, it was reported that a million signed in a month. How much do we have in the country? 40 million. How many months? 42. How many will sign the declarations? Three years. And that's because no one says we're short 6,000 doctors who have to work on the primary chain. Health problems are the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u145	Thank you. Guys, it's now two minutes for those people's deputies who don't have a system. Please, Barn, Head, Sporish. And then six minutes, Oleg Lazko. And that's where we finish our work. Thank you all very much for the mutual respect that prevailed at the end of the week in this room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u146	Praise Jesus Christ, all the Ukrainian people! In Ukraine there are enough problems, problems related to price control, both food and medicine, and fuel control. Here's the interesting thing is, when the currency goes up, the price goes up, but when the currency goes down and the price goes down on the international markets, we don't go down. In fact, there are a lot of questions to the antimonopoly committee on this issue, and we also have to stop decommissioning the land, and give it to no one, but only those who want to work on it will work, work for their families, themselves and villages, communities and Ukraine, and give compensation not to anyone, because they didn't get the land, but give grants to those who want to work on the ground. But in addition to these problems, we've got the car, we've got the army restored, we've got foreign investment, we've got 124 companies built, two of them in my district. There is a road development and construction programme by 2003, signed by the President of Ukraine, and budgetary institutions are being restored in each village. But besides, we still see that the President is not only uniting the world, the anti - Putin coalition, but we have not only formed a powerful coalition in our parliament, but the President is uniting people and faith. But there are some breakers from the newly-heated political forces, some of the gastrolers from abroad, who are beginning to paint facts. So I turn to the wisdom of the Ukrainian people. Dear people, please refer to their biography, where they came from, what swamp they came from, and how much they have, and where their hundreds of millions, where they came from, and where they came from, ask them. And by the way, power must be from the people, for the people, and for the people to go to the people, so power must be formed exclusively by the majority. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u147	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u148	Because our society has a problem with two of these things. When a person is a prostitute, it is the problem of this person, the maximum of the family, but when a politician is a whore, it is a problem of the state. Glory to Ukraine! And politics without prostitutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u149	Please, Mikhail Golovko. Ivan Sporish. And Mikhailo Golovko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u150	John Sporish, Winnie. Thank you so much for giving me these two minutes. I want to remind all of us, and including myself that we're going to have three weeks of electoral work, there's going to be work on committees. And first of all, in these three weeks, it's going to be a holiday like May 1st, the day of work that we haven't canceled, the glory of God, and it's going to be May 9th. On May 9, I'd like to stop anyway, a few words, because that's a small part of the veterans, the widows that are left, we have to give everything to them. to honor them, and to make sure that they truly live to see how long God has taken them. But I want to mention the wrong thing, I say, and today we have historians who know that the Great Homeland War has been going on for three years and almost 11 months. But unfortunately, Russia is more today. For the fifth year, when our east was bombed, our soldiers were killed. And I wanted peace to be more rapid. And that's why the appeal to the Universal Patriarch of Warfolomy about the One Auto-Cefal Orthodox Church, someone likes it, and someone doesn't, it's fair because right here, I think Ukraine will be free, independent if there's an independent church. I think we've done the right thing, and we have this appeal. Today, Prime Minister Groissman said that 11 billion dollars is allocated to local roads of 40 billion which. Where it's all roads. I'm asking you, Irina Volodymyrically, to write down my statement that the limestone-Crižopil road is a reference to the stealthodore, which has not been repaired for 50 years and has not been repaired, and I support what the previous speakers have said on the road to make sure they do. Turned this year and repaired the road. So I'm asking you to write this down with my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u151	Please describe this as a parliamentary address, this speech. The last part of our debate today, Michael Golovko, please. And then the finish line and the apopheus is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u152	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Honorable MPs, colleagues, distinguished voters in Ukraine! Indeed, today is the second anniversary of the government of Groisman, and we look forward to listening to his report. But what I'm trying to say is that the best thing about government activity is that it's the House of Accounts. When we read those figures, we're just going to see macro-economic indicators that there's a sharp decline, as well as an increase in debt, an increase in unemployment, a decline in economic growth. And this is a sharp problem and it tells us that our economy is completely in the shadows, and this is at the official figures -- 50, or even 60 percent, which leads to GDP, this is going to be 3 trillion dollars. This is a catastrophe within our nation. And that's why Freedom has just offered a package of anti-oligaric reforms, laws that need to be passed in the walls of parliament that have been here for years but are not included in the session hall. And that's where it's able to get the economy out of the shadows: the elimination of private monopolies, the recovery of offshore funds, and so on. But what I'm trying to say is that the problem of mass unemployment is when Ukrainians are going abroad, especially in the countryside, because today the state is unfortunately not stimulating rural production, and that's the main thing, it doesn't want Parliament to consider the Freedom Act 5597, which proposed the creation of cooperatives, cooperative movements in rural areas, which will allow small farms to be created, allowing farmers to do drugs, allowing them to support the producer, especially dairy production, because today the cow is a farm for farmers. And it's very sad that today the state has just refused to regulate the price of milk to the purchasers, including the products of the goods of the first necessity. And today we're asking the government, the government of Groysman to immediately review it and take control. And take control and increase subsidies, pay off large cattle to save the village, save the opportunity to fill their local budgets and protect our Ukrainian peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko invites you to the floor, one Oleg Lazko now, you've all spoken already, you've all spoken. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Oleg Lazko is not alone, Oleg Lazko with iron and powerful, and a responsible team working in parliament today, and tomorrow we will take power and order in Ukraine, because one in the field is not a soldier. The king makes the world, the leader of the party makes the team. And when I go and win the presidential election, I have to lead a team of patriotic, honest, responsible Ukrainians who link their future to their home country. And it's this team, Lalashka, an iron team that's the only one in Parliament that's always working, and everyone has the opportunity to see that now, looking into the empty Hall of the Supreme Council. It is this iron team that will bring order to the country. Because today the key problem in Ukraine is chaos, lawlessness, lack of justice and lack of confidence in tomorrow, lack of stability. So people are leaving the country because they don't see any prospects for implementation in their own country. They are afraid not only to walk at night but also to walk on the streets in the daytime so that they do not suffer from crime. Without money, without a hairy hand, they cannot find truth and justice in the courts, in power. And it's all one word: hopelessness. Easy Team, our program is hope. Hope for Ukraine, confidence in tomorrow, economic recovery, job creation for Ukrainians, stability, the restoration of peace in Ukraine and territorial integrity. This combines “hope. ” I want a man to trust us with his child. That's how we look at people's support. So that when a mother or a father lets us take care of her child, she can be absolutely sure that when she returns home, the child will be fed, cared for, warm, and good. That's who Easy is. This is a Ukrainian father for every Ukrainian child, not just his own. That's who I want to be. And our team. The end of chaos, the end of the mess starts with power. The key issue of power today is dualism. What do they do in the President's Office in the morning? They share power, they share authority, I think about how to win the election, and how to load my own pockets. Why? Because the president is a businessman, an entrepreneur. When I went to the polls in 2014, and I said, "Keep me," they said, "Oh, no, we're going to vote for Dusty. He's an oligarch, he's made a billion, so maybe he'll give us a chance to make money." Is that so? He took the last one. This is the price when the oligarchs come to power. And as a result of the so-called delligarchization in the country, there was one oligarch left — Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko. In the president's office. In the Presidential Office, there must be a person for whom national interest first, for whom the protection of Ukraine’s interests first, is the protection of the interests of the working man. There must be a person in the president's office who shows, not the flexibility of the back in front of everyone he meets, but the stability, the confidence in what you do and the strategic vision of the future and tomorrow. Our strategy is to set things straight in the country. First. Changes to the Constitution. We'll take away the dualism in power. The President and the Prime Minister will not be like two rams on the bridge fighting for authority and authority. We will reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council to 250. After I was elected President of Ukraine, the first law I will bring to Parliament, the Law on the Procedure for impeachment of the President of Ukraine. Every person in Ukraine, from the President to everyone, has to be accountable and accountable. It cannot be that the President of Ukraine is uncontrollable as a king. That's why the Law on the Impeachment Procedure of the President of Ukraine. Just like the President of Ukraine, I will sign the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and give Parliament authority over the law enforcement authorities, the executive authority, the rights of citizens, so that Parliament has real powers and everyone is afraid of parliamentary control. I don't know if President Dustenk has the courage, if he doesn't, I'll change the electoral system. Proportional elections for open lists are the main component of eliminating political corruption. Because what's going on today, the so-called fight against corruption, is imitation. These are key steps to bring the country into order, to restore peace, to develop the country, and to bring the Ukrainians home. This is the plan of Light and our team.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I think even the iron team will confirm that I have iron nerves because we did a good job today. All those who wanted to speak were able to realize this right. Dear colleagues, I want to remind all of you that our sessional week is over, it has been quite effective and fruitful. We now have weeks of work in the districts as well as in the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I very much ask my colleagues to be careful about committee work. There are a lot of people there waiting for a bill to be considered, especially the Anti-Corruption Court is waiting for a second reading now and adoption in the session room, and the key to us is the Law on Safety and Defence is also on the committee. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, May 15, at 10 a.m. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today I declare closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
