ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. So, are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, if you'd like to register, please take part in the registration. [[10:04:10]] 310 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Sergio Olegovich Aleksiev. Welcome to your colleague's birthday. [[Applause]] I also want to report that the 21st Winter Olympics in Korea are opening today. This is the seventh winter Olympics in which the Ukrainian Assembly takes part after the declaration of Ukraine’s independence. 33 Our athletes will compete in nine sports. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I wish our athletes victory and more often the anthem of Ukraine during the handover of the medals. Thank you. Good luck. Ukraine means victory! Thank you! Before I go to "the hour of questions to the government," I'm going to read a statement from two factions: "The opposition block" and "The will of the people," who are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. Three minutes, Natalia Coralewska. And then we start "an hour of questions to the government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u2	Colleagues, thousands of military pensioners, are taking to the streets, trying to choose justice and uphold their rights. It is humiliating to the State that those who have defended and served their Father’s inheritance do not count the pensions they deserve. Especially cynical is the fact that the government seemed to agree and promised people a recalculation of pensions from January 1, 2018. But it is a savagery when they canceled their decision in New Year’s Eve and postponed the calculation for a year. Because those who are now called to the lions of the army and sit in trenches at minus 10 look at all of this and realize that this authority will do the same with them in its own time. All of this demeans the name of the defender of Ukraine. I hope you can hear me. Because those in pursuits who carried out their duties served, protected the country, protected the law and the law, saved the world from a terrible nuclear accident, today they must defend their rights in the streets and in the courts. This is an unacceptable and shameful situation. And today we must unite all our efforts and force the government to comply with their decisions – Decrees 704 and 988. For our part, we registered the draft Parliamentary Decree 7492. And I thank all the deputies, and this is more than 170 MPs who signed and supported this decree. And I'm calling on the speaker to immediately consider and accept this decision, and to force this government to comply with the laws of Ukraine, to execute and recalculate pensions to military pensioners today. And we all know very well that in order to recalculate the pensions of military personnel today, you don't have to adopt any laws, you don't have to develop any new mechanisms, you just have to comply with the law and you have to comply with the government's ruling. The time has come for these people, the people in pursuit, to protect us, today is the time for us to support these people and to support the recalculation of pensions and to pay our debts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Members of the government, headed by Prime Minister VolodymyrGroysman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the Prime Minister and the government, colleagues. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that after 20 minutes for factions and 15 minutes for factions, questions from deputies, and from the government today, there will be a speech by Prime Minister Vladimir BorisovichGroysman of Ukraine. I'd like to invite you to the rostrum. Colleagues, please take your seats and come into the hall. Take your seats, colleagues. This is the Prime Minister speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u4	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! This week, a new session of Parliament began and, I believe, this session is not just a formal meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but it is our joint work and the opportunity to take many good steps to change the lives of Ukrainians. My Chief of Staff and I presented on Monday 35 important economic laws worked by the government, which were worked by Parliament, the President, factions, groups, separate 112 people's deputies in Ukraine. I want to thank you for the fact that in this plenary week two laws of 35 were passed. I think it's very important in terms of the development of the national economy. But I don't think that's enough to make a radical change in the country and give people a sense of the future, and to make a system in the country that would restore justice, dignity and pride for our country. Maybe when we look at the four years we've lived, we can say that we've done a lot at the same time, but I know exactly what we've done a little. We didn't get past the point of non-return, and today anything can change. We need to change the country and make the country a truly democratic, truly developed country. I'm deeply convinced that people today are not expecting us to have politicians over a year and a half before the elections today start to measure their ratings, and we need to understand that before the elections, we have a chance to make big decisions -- decisions that people really expect. I'd like to say that it's very important for you and me to develop a national economy, and at the same time, I want to ask you a question. Is it possible to build a strong, transparent economy if we have a huge challenge of corruption in Ukraine? Will investments come to us? Can we open up the potential to create new jobs, raise wages in the country? No, it's not. We need to fight corruption effectively, and that is why we need to create a new transparent Anti-Corruption Court at this session. And not just to create it, but to make sure that this court executes the first sentence to those corrupts who confuse their own pockets with national interests. Finally, we have to complete the decentralization reform. To do that, we need to make constitutional changes, to strengthen local self-government at all levels, starting with the community, where it is now, and ending with areas. We need to finally make a decision, but we're either a parliamentary-presidential country or a presidential-parliamentary country. [[Applause]] We have to determine, and this is very important, the areas of responsibility and competence of all levels of power, clearly indicate who's responsible, then we get a completely different quality of government. Do we not agree with the fact that the current electoral system is unacceptable? The current electoral system corrupts the electoral process today. It became normal in our country when people buy voices. We have a chance to change that. We need to create a normal transparent system where everyone can implement themselves. And when a quality and open dialogue with Ukrainian society is built and we respect people by coming to the elections, and we promise only what we can do, not buy for money, for the often stolen money, for the voices of Ukrainians. I think all these questions need to be solved. Yeah, we can think about what we're two more years old and we need to start competing in a political struggle. I think it doesn't matter who wins the fight today, which Ukraine we're going to live in. And we can only change the situation with you, no one can change it separately. Only the Ukrainian Parliament must be united, the President, the Government, the Head of Parliament. We all have a chance that is perhaps the highest value to go into history by those who have not only reformed Ukraine, but to go into history by those who have built a new, strong, democratic, economically developed state. I urge all of us to unite together, I am ready to serve these goals, and I am ready to do so together with you. Let's return together a sense of dignity to every Ukrainian, justice. And when we talk about people going abroad today, not because they only need money, but because they want to feel a completely different quality of life, they want to feel respect for themselves, and we have this respect to return to their native Ukrainian home, so Glory to Ukraine! And let's change Ukraine once and for many years together in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u5	Thank you. So, colleagues, we have the ability to have a full dialogue. I remind you, first we have questions from the factions, and then I ask the factions to record, and then I ask the people's deputies. So please record a question from the factions and groups of parliament. Please record. After that, there will be MPs. So, from Peter Prashenko's Block, he's going to ask questions about Pober Igor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Alexei. Excuse me, Evakhova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u7	Please turn on Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Evlah. Anatoly Evlakhov, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u9	I have a question for the finance minister, unfortunately I don't see him in the government's bed right now. So, Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for the Minister of Finance, but... Okay. This is the case with the Minfin decision on the monetaryization of subsidies, which is unfortunately a complete failure today. Providers are unable to fill in a grant receipt as they do not assign these subsidies. They are assigned to the office of the Soccer. Registers can not be exchanged between service providers and social security authorities by protecting personal data. And today there is a real danger of stopping the supply of heat, water, gas, and maintenance services. When will this matter be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u10	Dear People's Deputy! I want to point out that since the beginning of this year, we've counted 9 billion dollars in debt over the past year. The January-February target is 18 billion dollars. All issues related to unregulated enrollments and so forth, we are ready to resolve quickly. The Minfin website already has a decision to make changes to the monetary policy. If there's a question, we're ready to settle them quickly. As far as OSBB is concerned, 600 million dollars have already been counted into the accounts of OSBB. And that's why we think that we're ready quickly to settle all of these issues, so we don't have to stop these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u11	Thank you. From Self-Help, Olena Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I'm bringing to your attention that your first deputy, Mr. Cuban, whom we highly respect, your finance minister has forgotten that the government is the accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine. Despite all the promises made by Stéphane Ivanovich that there would be respect for Parliament's committees on the issue of the monetaryization of subsidies, there was no representative of the Ministry of Finance at the committee meeting. And we have expressed mistrust and recognition of the unsatisfactory work of the Minister of Finance, his deputy Marchenk, on the monetaryization of subsidies. All of Ukraine is in collapse. Water companies do not know how they will receive subsidies in January. The OSB and BZB were out of line in the first place. You don't hear people, FSB doesn't want to administer subsidies. They want households to receive these funds directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u14	So the question is, if you don't go to committee meetings. When exactly, name a date, a decision will be taken and changes will be made to Minfin’s command. Name this date.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize, fellow officials, that the government and I, as Prime Minister, are accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and are always ready to meet with you and report on the work done: both on what has been done and on what we may not have been able to do. But in 26 years of independence, it was our government that made an extremely responsible decision -- the first time to start the monetaryization of subsidies. And we realize that not everything goes smoothly and it doesn't just go because it's the first time we've done it, we've done a lot of things for the first time. I said in my speech, we're building a whole new system, and we can be wrong about anything. But we are always critical. We are self - critical of our steps and see how they can be corrected. So this is about OSBB, which is about energy producers and utilities. Everything, the bracelet in the bracelet, will be paid at their expense. We're going to take the changes that are necessary on Wednesday, and I think the system works perfectly well. I apologize for such technical failures, but I stress that it's the first time we've done this and we're doing it in a responsible way, and we're not going to leave any OSB out of it and with any debts. Just write that down, and then you'll ask us. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u16	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Sergey Eutuszek has a word for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u17	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Mr. Reva's Minister of Social Policy. Minister, you wrote a bill on military pensioners. And so far, we've been working with experts and experts at the Ministry of Defense on your document. We're asking you to withdraw this impeccable document. This bill cancels an active mechanism for calculating military pensions based on the use of average wages. If we're talking about incentives, if we're talking about military salaries, if we're talking about incentives, if we're talking about military salaries, we can't compare them when we're calculating pensions to the average wage, which is ridiculous. Where will those who want to serve in the army be taken? And that's why we're asking you to withdraw this bill, but only by the government's rulings of previous years to regulate social justice and to count just pensions for military pensioners, and to allow those who are already retiring or planning to retire to a clear understanding that they will have a pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for your question. It's a very important and sensitive subject, a very important and sensitive topic -- the recalculation of pensions for military personnel. Believe me, this is also an important priority for me. And I remember we talked about doing it on January 1, and I remember. Why this is difficult for us. Why didn't we do it from January 1st to January 1st? I'll explain it to you and it's a completely straightforward position. First. We introduced a new pension system that opened up the possibility of changing the pension service system in May, passed the final law in October, until it was signed, entered into force, and we were not able to bring the law into Parliament until November 1st. Next, it's about the military, I want to assure you, all of you. We will not leave all the warlords today who are fighting, who are protecting our country without an increase in pensions. But you have to understand that in this system there are those who have never seen what war is, never before have you seen what real fighting is like -- the bricklayers, the obelisks -- and we don't have to put them in the same frame of reference. I am deeply convinced of that. But even though this question is very sensitive, I'm the first to say. First. We, if we adopt this law in February or March, we'll all count the pensions of January 1, we'll have the money for it. What military pensioners demand today is plus 43 billion dollars. We have a 140 billion pension deficit today. You want us not to have 140, but 184 billion? We want to destroy the whole country's pension fund? That's why we need to bring about this kind of differentiation and justice. We suggested that we do this in the light of the work on the National Security and Defence Council. Last year we sent this bill, we never sent it to you, to Parliament, anywhere. We're going to have to reconcile the positions of all the military, I mean the army and so on, and continue to put this bill into the hall. Of course we can go there. This is NatalaKorolewska speaking with her populist speeches, but she knows exactly what it's impossible to do, at least when she was a minister, she didn't do it. And I understand the reasons why, but I don't allow myself to make populist speeches, because I think it's a question of the fate of hundreds of thousands of people, and we have a conscience to make decisions. So my message to the military pensioners: we're going to introduce a bill, and to all those who deserve it justly, they're going to get higher pensions, higher pensions. Those who are fighting today in the trenches for which we have spoken here from the rostrum, I want to say that we respect and appreciate these people. And that's why we started to raise the salaries for the military, we have to. They will have the highest pension in the country, the highest respect and the highest, highest privileges, because they chose it, they deserve it. And we're going to do that, and I'm stressing it, dear colleagues. And I'm asking everyone that we don't have it in common. Let's just see. I know that some national MPs, I don't see them in the hall right now, some national MPs are just walking, they think they're going to get a plus half-percent vote. Friends, in the election, I think we're going to have an election in two years, then we're going to compete. Let's fight for the well-being of the people and think that this is a question, not of popularism and good rhetoric, but of responsibility between those pensioners who are today, and those who will be in the future, and those who are protecting our state. We'll do anything with you, a little bit, please, patience. I know it's hard, but I'm asking for some patience, and we'll find the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u19	From the People's Front, Maximburbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, I listened very carefully to your speech. And I would like to thank you from the People's Front faction for continuing the course that started in such a difficult year in 2014, when Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk started reforms that most of the people sitting in this room did not do in 25 years of independence. Thank you for your support for improving national security and defence, for setting up an anti-corruption court, for making such necessary changes in the Constitution and for decentralization. There is support for both the decision and the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer borders beyond the population to OTG. I'm asking you to consider the possibility for the participants in the ATO, who have already submitted their proposals for land allocation. Because it's going to have to start this procedure again. Please provide for the protection of these rights and the completion of this procedure for those who have already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u21	Maxim Yuriovich, thank you so much for your support. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I would like to say that we have also adopted a recent decision that makes it easier to get land from ATO participants. And of course, if jurisdiction changes, that is, jurisdiction will go to the local communities, we'll focus on that. There are already the first communities to be able, and in February they will have new lands to own. Thus, the process of transferring land to the property of the united territorial communities began and will be continued and completed. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u22	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Yatzenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, I have two questions. The first is, you know, oesophageal implantation, or deaf kids. And we've done a lot in this direction in the last two years. But now he's got a letter from the Academy of Sciences, and it's clearly stated that today there are 120 million a year, but the deficit is not enough 150 million to completely solve this problem without another. So the big request is still, well, I realize it's very hard to find the funds, but to find them. And the second question to Mr.Cubby. Last time, we were asking questions about a girl, her last name. You know that question because it's the only child in Ukraine that needs treatment, and we're trying to find funding. And he received a letter from Minsvrat that he needed to register the law. Okay, I registered it, it's No. 8016 of February 8. And request or support it, this law, or find other ways. Thank you. These are two questions I'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Consider this question, work on it, and answer it in terms of funding. But I want to give it to you personally for being absolutely consistent in your stand for children’s health. Thank you. And we feel that not only between the sessions and the "hours of questions to the government," but you keep asking that question. I think this position deserves respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u25	And from Wilcule Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u27	I ask you to speak the national language, but you speak it well. And from this room and from myself, I would like to ask you personally to go into the national language. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u28	Please don't. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, there's a social experiment in our country called "medical reform." I inform you that today we are filing with the Constitutional Court for the annulment of this anti-human reform. And I want to ask you this question: how long will it be in status? Heading Uljana Suprun’s Ministry of Health, which has already proved to be unprofessional, for which Ukrainians pay their lives and their children. How much longer will she be working? So the first question I wanted to ask is, how long is it going to work? And I would like to point out that while you cover it, part of the responsibility for the death of Ukrainians lies with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Yuriovich. I'll answer a little wider. You know, we're actually trying to stop that experiment that you started as the head of the Dnipropetrov district administration and vice-prime minister, which is called "the destruction of Ukrainian health." It was because of your government’s decision, unfortunately, that a procedure was put in place on the verge of the destruction of a pediatrician and that we were unable to unite them into a single job and began to lose them, including children, to the point of great regret. And the fact that you have a broken health system has a direct bearing on this as a representative of the government. So our job today is to stop the experiment that led, including the collapse of medicine. You and I have made a decision, the Ukrainian Parliament -- in fact, without you -- we have decided to change the funding system. Here, yesterday I was in Lviv, Lviv, in Lviv, there was this city in Lviv, so there was an unfinished neonatal center for 5 years, a perinatal center that you started to build, stop, doctors, 150 people were completely expelled from jobs, and we're going to finish it, and we're going to treat people. So I ask you to join us in creating a new and high - quality health system and to stop them. and correct those mistakes that were made when you were in power. Thank you. And everything about Uljana Suprun will be determined by a coalition in terms of voting for the Minister of Health, and I will put her in the room. But I want to emphasize one more thing. Guys, one more thing I'd like to emphasize. When it comes to health protection, in principle we need to fight for the creation of a new system and for the health of Ukrainians, and the longevity of life. But I know that for many years they fought, not for health care, but for the flow of the Ministry of Health. And I want to tell you, to the virtues of Ulysses Suprun, we should give due consideration to the fact that everything is going on there today in a transparent and completely transparent manner. This means that it does not allow money belonging to the Ukrainian people to be stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u30	Thank you. I'll give you the lines later. It's from the Radical Party of Halasyuk Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u31	Mr. Prime Minister, Victor Galasuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. You know, all Ukrainians know how low incomes are in the country today, how high unemployment is today. You yourself were talking about a huge job emigration today. The Radical Party team insists on raising the minimum wage to 5,000,500 dollars, for the calculation of pensions for military pensioners, for those pensioners who worked in the rural area. It is essential to set up the task of creating millions of jobs in Ukraine. It's a very ambitious goal, but there's no alternative if we want to have a state and want to have sovereignty. This ambitious goal must be strengthened by real economic development tools, such as industrial parks, which you have included in the legislative priorities of the government, such as the creation, not on paper, but the actual Export Credit Agency for Exporter Credits, the adoption of the whole "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" for the development of the Ukrainian economy. Mr. Prime Minister, what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. The issue of raising social standards for us is an overriding priority, and I thank you for being united here. It's really important that social standards grow when the social economy grows. When we borrowed and raised social standards, this led to many negative phenomena and to a halt to economic growth. So I want to say that from 2007 to 2014, Ukraine has borrowed 46 billion dollars that we are serving with you today, which we are today. We pay 130 billion dollars a year for maintenance. We need rapid economic growth. That package of laws we introduced, there's your authority, in 35 laws, they're greatly improving the investment situation. But without the systemic changes that I've been talking about in my speech, it's unlikely that we can make this growth irreversible. As for our support. We really support the domestic manufacturer. I will give you just one example of our program that we adopted this Wednesday, which was supported, including by your political power, and by those who voted, by the colleagues of the BP, the People's Front, to all those who voted in favour of the budget. This is a question of supporting an agri-industrial complex that forms almost a fifth of the country’s GDP. So, buy Ukrainian technology -- and get 25 percent back the value of this technology; buy Ukrainian landing material -- and plant new gardens, and get 80 percent of the cost of all the material; today get 25-30 percent of the value of basic funds when you build farms, dairy complexes -- that means that the agricultural complex will increase. All over the country, they're about to start building new farms, new complexes, rebuilding those farms that were destroyed. If you are a farmer, get loans of less than 1 percent by 5 years in national currency and develop your farming. If you are a small farmer, get a 40 - percent return on buying Ukrainian agriculture. I am addressing all the Ukrainians who live in the village and grow livestock today. For each head of the World War II, up to 12 months, the government has provided for targeted support of two and a half thousand dollars. Please grow livestock in your household, grow livestock, and this will be very important for Ukraine. We also supported those who produce milk in Ukraine. Create farms, make milkheads, and we will make up for each head this year, a decision taken, 1,500 dollars. We're doing everything we can to develop a national economy. And we will be happy to be together, together with you, honourable fellow national MPs, rather adopt the laws that we need today, which are part of the economic package as soon as possible. And also, we've really adopted the law of Parliament and you've been working on the Export Credit Agency. We want to create real mechanisms to support Ukrainian exports, and now we're working on it. Thank you. Let's keep working -- and we're going to get rapid economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u33	Thank you. Now a question from the National MPs. All the lines I'll give after the end, all the lines I'll give after all the speeches. So now for 20 minutes, I'm asking you to record 20 minutes of questions from the National MPs. Peter Prashenko's Block, Lubinetsa Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u34	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich! I have to ask you now, not with a question, but with a request. You personally care for the construction of the metropolis in Dniper, and thank you for your support, and for your concern. But the issue of paying the added value tax became urgent. We cannot reach compromise and dialogue with Finance Minister Alexander Daniluk. And now I'd like to ask you to assign him personally to meet with us, the Dniepra National Deputies, and to hold a constructive meeting so that the issue can finally be resolved. Vladimir Borisovich, only you have hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honourable People's Deputy for asking. I know you're taking very professional care of this topic. We really support the construction, as we agreed on the work trip to Dnieper, we support the construction of the subway as we support the construction of the metropolis in Kharkiv, and I promised that we will support it, and that's what's going on. I am now giving an official mandate to the finance minister of Ukraine to find a solution to this problem and to bring the government to the nearest meeting if necessary and if not, take the initiative to the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. I'm asking you to make an official appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Musei Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u38	Good afternoon, distinguished members of Ukraine! Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you about the situation of the violent response to the Stockholm arbitration at the Kozacki Hotel. You know Israel doesn't sign with us the Free Trade Agreement because the government doesn't implement the Stockholm Arbitration Decision. The government received a huge reward for winning an arbitration in Stockholm at Gazprom. Do we want to build a bad relationship with Israel? And I have a second question for the Minister of Coal Industry. Does the third year in a row have to come on the same rakes on the miners ’ salary? I have a mining district. As of today, the miners had not received their wages again for December. Already angry, people good, every year the same. Make arrangements, please, with your ministers, for them to fulfill their duty to the miners and decisions of the Stockholm Arbitration. How much of the same can we do here again? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u39	Thank you. I truly respect the investor in Israel, but the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians who live in the special complex of Cosatsky today are former military personnel. And that's why we understand the court's decision, and we respect it, but we need to reconcile all actions so that ordinary Ukrainian citizens don't get hurt. And I'm standing in that position. The MPs raised that question, and they did it the last time. I gave an order to the Minister of Defense, asked to participate and to find the right, legal solution that would not deprive Ukrainian citizens of their right to housing. So I'm convinced that only this way can be the solution to this question, nothing else. As far as payment is concerned, payments will be made, but we have to understand that we are paying the wage difference, the difference between the cost of coal, which is very expensive, unfortunately, and what it costs. So coal that's mined on government mines costs more than it's bought on the market. So it's important not only to make up for the wages, people shouldn't suffer from it, I agree with you, but we need to modernize the coal sector so that there's no problem. As far as I can tell, both the issue of sales and the purchase of coal have been settled literally in the last days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u41	If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u42	Head Mikhail. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u43	Sir, Andrew! Sir, Andrew!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u44	I'm sorry, but Nasalik has a deal, okay? - and then I'll give you my word. Please, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u45	Thank you for asking, Mr. Musai. I respect you very much, but I have to say that you probably haven't been interested in the coal industry in your district for at least eight months. Lung Coal PD has become completely different over this period, and not only does it need donations today, but it gains at least 30 million dollars a month. The Lviv-Ugil Wage Fund has grown from 70 million to 120 over the past six months, almost twice as much. And today, lion miners are getting higher wages than in the POTEC, a private enterprise. This is the first one. The other one. Literally yesterday, Wednesday, and with the help of the deputy of Mr. Michael Bondar of the People's Front, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided on Wednesday to use it. the way in which coal is used. I think by Monday, the Ministry of Finance will be issuing an indebted salary of up to 450 million and another 400 million to go to upgrade. In addition, we had a long discussion between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, and this discussion was concluded by Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine, who commissioned Minenergo and Minfin to arrange the issue of guaranteeing the government for a billion dollars to upgrade the mines. These are the costs of modernization and the security costs of our miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u46	Thank you. So, Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u47	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Borisovich, I have a question for you. Did you draw conclusions and responsibilities from officials? In particular, Deputy Minister of Economy Nephrodov for a failed tender with Poles who won trams for the city of Kiev, where 2 billion Ukrainian bracelets. 2 billion came out of the Ukrainian budget -- that's taxpayers' taxes, in total, 1,000 dollars. Were these errors taken into account? And will there really be any personnel decisions on this issue? And those officials are called to account? Because that's over $70 million coming out of the Ukrainian budget instead of creating jobs, instead of giving this order to a Lviv enterprise, this order went on to buy trams, to a thing that was done in common with Russia, and those costs went just to create jobs in Poland, which, by the way, is now being aggressive towards Ukraine, including pointing us to our heroes, to our history, instead of creating jobs and giving orders to state enterprises in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. I want to say for justice's sake that there was no role here as Deputy Minister of Economy Nephrodov, he's not here at all, and it's not a matter of his competence, and he wasn't conducting this tender. The tender led the city of Kiev. I know that in Kiev, the city's head Vitaly Klitschko is focusing on the location of tram manufacturing inside the city. And now this contract was actually signed because they gave a different price. And the trams are already, as far as I can tell. So it was only the authority of the local self-government. But it must be given to the city’s head that he asked questions about the localization of production in Kiev. And now this process as soon as it happens, it will mean that more jobs will be created in Ukraine. I absolutely agree with you that more and more jobs should be created in Ukraine. To do this, we need to stimulate, including machine building. We have colossal resources in our local budgets today, billions, tens of billions of dollars that need to be sent today to modernize utility technology, to modernize utility transport. It's all to be produced in Ukraine by Ukrainian hands and to develop the Ukrainian economy, there's no objection here. By the way, we're about to sign such an agreement about the location of another engine building segment in the country. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Batenko gives the question to Konstankevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u50	My question will be addressed to Minister of Social Policy Andrew Ivanovich Revey. Dear Andrew Ivanovich, would you please tell us that on Volina we now have a difficult social situation, a stressful situation with the feeding of so-called Chernobyl children, or those who live in radioactively polluted territory? In particular, last calendar year, 2017, in Manevice, these children were fed by the law-approved 9 months of just one and a half months. Today, 2018, it started with the fact that the tenders for organization and nutrition did not happen either. And we have a similar situation in the Lubeshevsky, Kamen-Kashirsky and Manevicki district. My question is, How long is this going to take? After all, it is repeated year after year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u52	Will those officials be punished, particularly the heads of the Reich’s governments, who did not organize and carry out these tenders on time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u53	Dear Mrs. Irina, I know that this is a matter that you have taken care of long enough and you are seriously concerned about the situation that has to do with the feeding of the Chernobyl children. You're absolutely right that this is a unique situation in the Volin region, because children are fed not only there, but in other areas. And for some reason in Gitomirsky, in a number of other areas such problems do not occur, but they do occur in Volina. I fully agree with you that these persons responsible for the nutrition of children should be held accountable. Although the heads of the district government are not subordinated to the minister and the Ministry of Social Policy, I believe there are grounds for the intervention of law enforcement agencies. I'm willing to go along with you and prepare such an appeal to those law enforcement officers who have to check out why we have tenders broken down year after year, and who's to blame. The way out of this situation, I can see the whole thing in the introduction of a full coinage of Prince Prince "money goes after a child." As long as our officials decide who will feed our children, there may be problems as long as there is such a unique situation. In general, I am willing to work with you to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u54	Thank you. Revega Alexander Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u55	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, Stepan Ivanovich. First of all, I want to thank you for helping and raising funds in the year of the disaster in Berdichev and in the Berdichov region. However, due to the weather conditions of last year, some of the funds have returned to the state budget. And again, I asked you to set aside the funds this year and we finished our social work. That's the first question. And another question. Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I want to address you. Please note the situation in the State Fiscal Service in the Zitomir region. I was approached by various organizations. Three, one manager and two coworkers were detained in 2017 on bribes. And, Vladimir Borisovich, please, an investigative question. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u56	Thank you. It's just a lot of people who want to ask questions. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, your answer. Mr. Prime Minister, your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u57	I'm going to fix this problem on the DFS, and I'm going to give you the answer, and they're going to do it right. Do you have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. Next question from the Ostrich People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Today, there is collective irresponsibility in government. The government has taken a tactic that all temporary leaders are in the city. There is no agrarian minister. We have an agrarian party asking who to ask for no grants in the last two months of the 17th year? Who can ask for the lifting of harmful VAT irreversibility standards for soybeans and rapes? Minfin allows for criminal inaction. Housing debt amounts to 22 billion. Minfin doesn't count them. Are we going into the future with debts? Vladimir Borisovich, who will be punished, and when will this debt be repaid? There is no DFS manager. There is no one today to ask about the baseless blocking of tax slips? There's no customs manager. All of them. There's no one to ask about the mess in the customs business, there's no one to ask about the smuggling flows. The same is true of many state - owned enterprises. For example, there's no head of Electric Power in Kharkiv. We demand that responsible leaders be appointed so that people know who to turn to and who will be personally responsible for all actions and decisions of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u60	Thank you for your meaningful observation. I want to tell you that national legislation allows for leadership, this is not some know-how. Even in advanced democracies at the same time that you're asking me questions, in the strongest countries there's also c.o. And it's no big deal. The Minister of Agrarian Politics is because the statement by the Minister of Agrarian Politics has not yet been considered by the Ukrainian Parliament. A statement in Parliament. As soon as you decide to release the Minister of Agrarian Politics, there will be a discussion of who will be next. And as for the DFS. The acting head of the DFS is Miroslav Prodane. You can contact him and he's responsible for all the DFS cases. And he's a very responsible leader, and I know that. As far as I'm concerned. And by the way, it's very progressive, and, by the way, it's totally intolerant of any corruption, and by the way, it's struggling with smuggling, and, by the way, it's good. I'm just going to tell you in January: Ukrainian customs paid plus 9 billion by January. But that's not all, we need to systematically eliminate corruption through smuggling and imports of raw materials. And we know that, we do that. I think more than we've done in this year, I don't think anyone's done more to us. But we'll keep going. So question c.o. does not detract from the responsibility of those who make decisions. So please address each particular case. As far as debt is concerned. So the debts were not born yesterday, not yesterday, on the benefits and subsidies. We're going to have to pay off these debts, I understand that. And we're working on it now. I think in the 18th year, we're going to be able to get all the debt to zero. But this debt isn't yesterday, not yesterday, not five years ago, these debts go chronically. So to pay off these debts, we have to make this money. What I'm doing this morning at breakfast, and I'm working on filling out the Ukrainian budget. And the budget is rising. So thank you for your support. And I would like to stress that it is very important to make important decisions in the Ukrainian Parliament that allow you to increase budget revenue, to develop a national economy, to support business, to close shadow schemes. And it was Miroslav Prodane, who was the head of the DFS, who was implementing a system that was adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament to eliminate the shadow schemes of VAT evasion in the country. By the 17th year, VAT in the country was washed by billions. Today it is possible to say that this has become impossible. So let's keep working together on the result. And this result, I'm sure, will be very positive. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Please ask Mr. Longzhenkov the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u62	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, the policy and effective previous authority is to implement the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund without question. And that's why there's been a gradual and substantial increase in housing and utility tariffs. As you know, in 2014, 1,000 meters of cubic natural gas cost. It didn't even cost 800 bucks. Now it costs about 7,000 dollars as well as industrial consumers. The next question is why. The International Monetary Fund’s exchange tranche is due to the adoption of some series of legislative acts, such as the increase in natural gas tariffs. And the question that millions of Ukrainians, average Ukrainians, consumers of residential services, will the government be raising tariffs on natural gas this year, and if there is, how much? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u63	Thank you for your question. This is a very difficult question, because in principle, the Ukrainian gas was destroyed, it was a fact. Our dependence on Russian gas was increased. In fact, every year it started with the President, the Prime Minister, going to Moscow to make a deal about the price of gas for the following year. And at the same time, when there was enough in the Ukrainian overlays to provide and sell themselves for export. It was such, I think, a planned diversion against our independence, unfortunately. What course did we take? We've taken a re-enactment course, and that's what we've been doing this year. Thank Parliament for making important decisions. If you adopt another 3096-deregulation package of laws, it will further increase the profits in Ukraine and we will be able to move away from imports at all. If we don't have import parity, then we can set domestic prices, you know, I think it's no worse than me in the country. Now, can you imagine why industrial gas costs more than heatcommunergo gas? Because its real price is what its owners buy. You know, a lot of companies in Ukraine that work, import themselves, import gas, and it's also more expensive than gas for TKE, because its real price is really more expensive. And that's an age-old problem. What's more, when it was worth, as you say, 800 dollars, it wasn't 800 dollars for the industry, it was probably 5,000 or 6,000 dollars for the industry. So, all those sitting on the gas, they were cheating on the population 800 times, and they were putting 4 or 5 thousand in their pockets. In this way new offshores, billions, and so forth, were created. We stopped it, and it's not happening today. But what I'm stressing is that in this heating season, I'm holding a position, I'm holding the word, there's not going to be a rise in population gas prices. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u65	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to address the very painful subject of subsidies once again. The Ministry of Finance Order No. 1 of 04.01.2018 introduces a procedure for the conduct of the accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Matvienkov, in Ukrainian, I very much ask you, in national language, it is very beautiful for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u67	Well, that's right. Wait, I'm sorry. I'm a representative of the city of Mariupol, and if we're talking about the reintegration of Donbass, if that's how you feel about Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Matvienkov, please ask your question. Your question. I ask you not to interrupt Mr. Matvienkov's question from the city of Mariupul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u69	Let us discuss this with you separately. Vladimir Borisovich, yes, here, 4 numbers were accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, let's go. I'm saying it again, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u70	Don't change your language. Don't change your tongue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u71	So I repeat, Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! It was decided that the calculation. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, let me ask you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u72	I'm asking for your answer. The question is understandable. Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, your answer regarding subsidies. I translate into the national language: Mariupol and the Opposition Block are interested in the issue of subsidies for all citizens of Ukraine. The question was asked by Mr. Matvienkov. Thank you very much. Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, fellows of honor! I want to answer the following, that all the payments that we're monetaryizing through benefits and subsidies will be made, we've only started for the first time since January 1st in 26 years of independence monetaryizing premiums for manufacturers. And this situation is going to be settled – that's what this is all about. Now, guys, I want to say one thing. Is there no doubt that I speak English? Colleagues, let's not divide Ukraine into sides, who says someone says something like that, someone else. Our native language is Ukrainian. Our language for which we must fight, stand up, and strengthen. But we have to show that we're a completely civilized country, multicultural. And we have a Soviet heritage, and we're not going to do anything about it. But the new generation, it speaks Ukrainian, for which we are fighting and we will continue to fight. Thank you, fellows of honor! And don't give up, my friends, on provocation, I'm asking you, colleagues of all: we speak our native Ukrainian language. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry if something's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u74	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, we fully share your position of unification of the sessional room and society. And certainly, Ukrainian language cannot be a matter of division; it merely unites both the hall and society. And we ask everyone in this room to take the same position, and the government, and the national MPs present. There was a replication from "The Opposition Block" mentioned the Prime Minister, Mrs. Royal. She's demanding a replica, so please give her a minute on the line. And no one ever mentioned it again. Dear Mr. Alexander, we have listened intently. Mrs. Natala, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u75	Mr. Prime Minister! Stop telling lies here. You know very well, and all MPs know very well, in order to list pensions today for military pensioners, people in pursuit, you don't have to adopt any laws. Today, a government decree is to be enforced. And, I'm sorry, how cynical was the government when you canceled the pension decision three days before you entered into force. It was such a gift to military pensioners under the New Year’s tree. So you don't have to fool the hall today, it's totally up to the government, make the decision, count the pension to the military pensioners. And to talk about dignity, to talk about how much you're paying for one animal right now, I'm sorry, but it's a complete lie. Because you're paying 1 thousand 200 for a disabled child today, and you're paying 2.5 for an animal. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u76	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u77	Natalia Yuriovna! Natalia Juryovna reverend! Please don't undermine my trust in you, not in trust, but in respect, I'm sorry. You were the minister, you know what you're talking about, you know how the mechanisms work. The government did not make any decisions regarding the suspension of pensions. Why are you now, then? Where is your conscience, you're a mother, why do you compare it to children? What are you doing? Surrender, please, because you can't do that, it's cynical and it's wrong. We need to support our children, we need to support them, but we need to remember that children are the highest value of our nation. You don't have to twist it. I'm underlining that. I want to say to you: Wickedness has never done you any good, and it will not do you any good unless you practice what is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say another word. Thank you. Wait a minute, Vladimir Borisovich. Colleagues, I would like to address everyone in this room on the grounds that the use of national language in the highest legislative body of the Ukrainian State, where the Ukrainian state language is national, is respect for the whole state and for all Ukrainian citizens. For hundreds of years, Ukrainian language has been destroyed, and to this day we have the ability and opportunity to recreate Ukrainian language. In all European parliaments, in the United States Parliament, where there are also many powerful, powerful national minorities, they speak, speak in the national language and have respect for all. And I'm addressing all the national MPs. Each such situation divides Parliament and creates conflict situations. So I have a request, a big request to everyone, to continue to use only state language during our discussions, in the debates in Parliament. Thank you. Colleagues, this "hour of questions to the government" is over. We thank the Prime Minister, thank the cabinet members. And we're moving on to the next question of the agenda -- reading parliamentary questions from the Ukrainian national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. I would also like to point out, on occasion, that 270 questions have come at this time. I'll read them all, I see the dissatisfaction of the People's Deputies, and then we'll give him a chance to talk. So now I'm going to publish the questions. The President of Ukraine hasn't been asked questions, so we won't be voting right now. And now ask other institutions and structures. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Ionova, Frez) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the BSC on providing information on the number of citizens of the Russian Federation who have died since the beginning of the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine so far, including those identified by the results of forensic expertise and recognized by military personnel. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the State budget of the Žitomir district cancer dispenser for the purchase of a new gamma-therapeutic device and for the reconstruction of the stationary and the clinic. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister on the allocation of land to the ATO participant Arthur Neciporuk, a resident of the village of Lipne Lubar district of Žitomir district. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister on the need to verify electronic declarations in personnel appointments. Alexander Opanasenka to the President of the National Academy of Sciences on the provision of materials and information for the work of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Vasilyanicki to Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Head of the Equality District State Administration on the need to allocate funds for the construction of the underground gas pipeline to villages: Berežnica, Beresta, Koras, Orvijanica, Solomiyuk Dubrovici district of the Plain region. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Treasury Service, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the settlement of the issue of the payment of debts under the decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Olesia Long to the Minister's Office for Retirement Years for Educators. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers for Retirement Years for Railways. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to approve a new edition of the Ukrainian Maritime Doctrine. Paul Rizanka to the Minister of Education and Science on the arrangements for the conduct of the competition and the appointment of directors of general secondary education. Andrea Lozov to Prime Minister, First Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development. Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work of Romana Chernega. on the inaction of the head of the State Service of Ukraine on the work of Roman Chernega on the numerous appeals made by the deputy of the Roman Stauque Town Council for the abuse of his position as Director of the DP "RETC" Roman Karpuk. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for the non-acceptance of the gaming business in Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the State Budget for 2018 for the construction of a self-sustaining sewage collector in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Vladislava Buhareva to the Prime Minister, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds from the State Budget for 2018 for the construction of a platoon on the streets of Cersa and the border in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Oxani Korczynski to the Minister of Defense for the provision of full and reliable information on the guarantee of repair and removal of technical deficiencies in sanitizer cars "Goddan 2251" by the manufacturer of PAT "Automobile Company Bogdan Motors" (Ukraine). DmitraŠenceva to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds from the State budget for the repair of state-owned roads in the Dvoričan region of Kharkiv, which are in a critical state. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Odessa District Ministry, the Odessa Region of Odessa on the need for objective consideration of the appeals of many children's mothers of Svetlana Bloshenko, Hanna Taran, Irina Pisconow, who live in the Kyiv district of Odessa, for the comprehensive provision of necessary social, medical and possible material assistance by the State and local authorities at their place of residence, for planning to improve the living conditions of these multi-child families, and for the timely provision of housing and other services under tax conditions, as well as for the provision of necessary legal assistance to applicants in order to avoid lowering the living standards of their children and the overall social protection of multi-child families. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on the delay in the restoration of gas supply and heating to residents of the Luhansk district of Toshkovka-1, Toshkovka, Lower, Lighthouse, Crimean. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Regional Development and the DRC, the Odessa Observatories, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the address of the resident of the Primorski District of Odessa, the disabled from childhood group I Alexijinka Vijeslav Vasilovich on the provision of social assistance and along with a solution to the issues raised in question on the grounds that the social protection authorities are essentially addressing the place of residence, as well as a full examination of compliance with urban legislation, building standards, standards and rules at the address indicated by the applicant. Michael Bondar to serve as head of the General Administration of the Ministry of State in the Lviv region for the drafting of the State Act on Earth. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Finance, head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of the settlement of the issue of the debt-coordinated difference between the KP's Stonewater Channel and the city of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister on increasing the effectiveness and effectiveness of the housing grant system. Alexia Lensky to Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General of Ukraine, for conducting an investigation into the inactivity of the U.S.S.O. investigators in the Zitomir region and delaying the investigation of case No.700. Excuse me, No.278/1-158/12, violated by the murder of a group of people living in the province of Valeri Kuchinsky, taking matters under personal control and taking immediate action to fully and comprehensively address the case and to adopt a just decision in accordance with Ukraine's legislation. Alexia Lensky to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the settlement of the issue of repayment of pension payments to residents of the city of Korstošev Žitomir district, round to the father-in-law of Victoria Krasnov, 95th birthday, and the use of appropriate response measures. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Ministry of Health and the loss of control over the spread of HIV infection in Ukraine, which has caused the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Director-General of the Lviv municipality of the "Leviv District Centre for Emergency Medical and Disaster Medicine" after the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care. ArturaMartovicko and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Ministry of Health on preventive measures, non-controlling the dynamics of the spread of infectious diseases, ignoring the risks associated with them, leading to the labour losses of the Ukrainian population. ArturaMartovicko and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister on the illegal functioning of the gaming business and the lack of proper control over the activities of the gambling establishments in the Žitomir region. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, on the process of creating the Energy Efficiency Fund in Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Justice about the introduction of the only notary archive in Ukraine. Anatoly Kuzmenka to the Minister of Justice regarding the appeal of former employees of ZAT "Energowogil" regarding the granting of a legal assessment of the rightfulness of the alienation of property under arrest. Sergia Kaplina to the Prime Minister for the restoration of constitutional rights for social protection of co-workers of the Ukrainian State. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the recognition of the "Alei of Heroes of Chernobyl" in the Sanhedrin district of Kiev as a monument to national significance. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Vice-Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Environment, Head of the Vinnitsk Observatories, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the National Police Department of the Vinnitsk Region for the violation of environmental legislation requirements during the construction of a building complex for the destruction of household wastes in the territory of the People's Rural Council of the Žmerinsk Region of the Vinnitsk Region. Vladimir Husak to the minister of infrastructure in charge of the Headship of Motorways for the restoration of road transport with Donbas. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister on the critical situation in Ukraine against tuberculosis and the irresponsibility of high-planters, which has led to an increase in disease. Igorya Gusa to the Human Rights Commissioner, deputy minister of the judiciary, for the conduct of a check on the work of the Lutsky Insulator in connection with the death of two citizens under the watch. IgoryaGuza to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to introduce a differentiated approach to assessing the activities of different categories of preschool workers. Dmitr Lubintz to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the Investigation of Crimes by Officials of the G.O. 'Kieva Football Federation'. ArtemaIlyuka to Henprocuror on the status of pretrial investigation into the application of the CLAXON and TOV "Universal-South" for the arbitrary occupation of land (art. 197 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine) for the parliamentary request for the falsification of the decision of the City Council on the City Budget of Mikolayeva for 2017 (art. 366 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine), as well as for the adoption of the decision on the application of criminal offences at the time of the decision of 27 July 2017 by the City Council of Mikolayev No.23/64 on articles 254, 364, 366 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. IriniConstangevich to the Vinnitsky Observatories, Kyiv Ministry, Dnipropetrovsk Observatija, Donetsk Oblivion-Civil Administration, Zitomirsk oblivion, Zakarpatsk oblivion, Zaporozky oblivion, Ivano-Frankov oblivion, Kiev oblivion, Kirovgrad oblivion, Lugansk oblivion, Lviv oblivion, Mikolaivsk oblivion, Odoblast government, Poltavsk oblivion, Poltava oblgion, Rustava oblgionistration, Irnopolski obląd. IriniConstankevich to the head of the Kamen-Kashire District Administration, the head of the Kivertske Reich administration, the head of the Manevetske Reichsgericht, the first deputy head of the Lubeshevsky Reichsgericht, the head of the Kolkovsky United Territorial Society, the head of the Prilesnski Joint Territorial Society, the head of the Tsuma Joint Territorial Society, the head of the Jewish United Territorial Society, the head of the Lubshewski Joint Territorial Society for the use of subsidies for socio-economic development of the territory. SergiaLabazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science on the problem of funding PTUs, vocational and technical institutions. SergiaLabazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers, a temporary duty of the Minister of Health to deal with the issue of compensation to the sick for the cost of medical supplies. Antona Kisse to the Prime Minister for refusing the liquidation of the Balgrad Interregional Administration of Water Management of the Odessa Region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Lviv Observatories for the immediate consolidation of the Dniester River and the construction of flood management buildings in Sambori Lviv district. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine" on the reduction of the network of banking institutions in the mountainous regions of the Lviv region. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister for the implementation of article 30, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the provision of free nutrition for secondary school students, vocational and technical education institutions, college students and technicians located in the area of radioactive pollution. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, on supporting and expediting the review of the draft Ukrainian Law amending subparagraphs 191.2.3 and 196.1.18 of the Tax Code (for inclusion of time limits) to ensure the constitutional right of law-abiding persons to return to Ukraine without setting a time limit on their stay outside Ukraine within 24 hours. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Lviv Observatories to ensure that comprehensive road repairs are carried out in the Jovkovsky and Yavorów regions of the Lviv region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board of Directors, Henprocuror, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, for the purpose of bringing to justice persons who had committed a diversion against the USS and who had brought together close to 20 units of armoured equipment. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister for an immediate solution to the question of cleaning and sorting the Lake of Lebedin and preventing the environmental disaster in the Sumskie region. Alexander Nechayev to the head of the Suma Oblast, the head of the Suma Arch for an immediate solution to the issue of the purchase of medical equipment for the Shastkin inter-regional anti-tuberculosis dispenser. Jacob Bezbach to the Commissioner for Human Rights, the National Police, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. SergijaLywoczina to the Prime Minister on the negative effects of industrial production. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on rising unemployment rates in Ukraine. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the critical underfunding of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister on the underfunding of the education sector of the city of Curve Horn. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister for the immediate cessation of systemic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Ukraine and the restoration of constitutional rights to adequate pensions. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the improvement of the criteria for the allocation of funds from the State Regional Development Fund between regions. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the rights of employees of the Ministry of Human Rights of the Ministry of Police in the Chernigiv region, who participated directly in the ATO, to ensure its implementation. Andrea Kota to the Prime Minister on the acquisition of the validity of Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 704 concerning the increase in the financial security of military personnel. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for preventing the destruction of the emergency (fast) medical care system in Ukraine. Igor Kotwiczky to the Head of the National Police on the search for people who have disappeared. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy for the improper pension of military and veterans, the immediate take-up of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 30 August 2017 No. 704, as well as the need for funds in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2018 to raise pensions for military officials and veterans. Anna Romanova and Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister for the restoration of Crimean higher education institutions in Ukraine. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister for compensation of the deficit in educational subsidy to teachers in Chernigova. Jury Boyka to Henprocuror for failure to comply with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation on the recalculation of pensions previously granted to military pensioners and pensioners of the force structures, the establishment and the invocation of responsibility for violating the constitutional right of citizens to secure a decent pension. AlexanderKorsha to the Prime Minister for the reduction of the tax burden on the State Science and Production Company of the Communist Union. AlexanderKorsha to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, temporarily acting as Minister of Health to prevent the closure of the “Specialized Medical Part No. 13”, located in Kharkiv, in the village of the village of Fifth Street. Romana Matzoli and Andrija Šinkovic to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs for the protection of the constitutional rights of former internal affairs officials and the resolution of the question of the execution of the pension in accordance with legislation. Romana Matzoli, Andrija Shinkovič to Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Rosenk, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Defence, Head of Hmeljna observatija to resolve the issue of free endoprostition of bullet joints to provide the necessary medical treatments, and further targeting the sanatorium and torturer, invalidity of war citizen Nazar Borischuk. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for ensuring the implementation of the constitutional right to free medical care. Valeria Karpuntsova to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, deputy director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the possible commission of criminal offences and corruption by the Rector of the State Institute of the Dnipropetrov Medical Academy of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Tetjan Pertsev. VitaliaCuprya to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the illegal interference of U.S. politicians in Ukraine’s affairs. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister for enabling ATO participants who have already begun to produce documentation to obtain land, to complete it without further approval by the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 60. Vitalia Gudzenka to Henprocuror with regard to full, impartial and prompt criminal investigation into the violation of environmental safety rules and the fact that air pollution is carried out by TDV officials. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre for carrying out a check of the legality of the activities of the General Office of the State Department in the Kyiv region to allow the development of projects by the land administration for the management of individual agriculture to individual citizens from the countries of the compatible use located within the Shaliy village council of the Skuri district of Kyiv. Jury Wozniak to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to protect the labour rights of workers at the Ostrósk Central District Hospital of the Provincial District Council. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the implementation of the project of the modern system of water treatment in the village of Vinkovci Hmelnicki district. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovic to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the non-acceptance of the role of the gaming business in the distribution of state lotteries. OlegaCulinica is head of the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on the phytosanitary situation. OlegKulinich to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to raise wages for individual categories of employees of the Crossroads. Mr. ConstantineJarynic to Vice-Prime Minister Paul Rosenck for the protection of the constitutional rights of civil servants and officials of local self-government on social security and pension insurance. ConstantineJarynica to the Prime Minister on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting the rule of law violations in the country's country reserve system and ensuring the stable functioning of strategically important state-owned enterprises. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Social Policy on the creation and provision of administrative services centres, including social services in the form of "Transparency Office" in district centres. Sergio Melnika to Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Rosenk on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Dmitra Dobrodomov to head of the Lviv District Administration on the need for repairs of roads in the Lviv region. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Ukrainian Police Department, Head of the National Police Department in the Vinnitsk Region, for the deployment of a service vehicle for the Oratov Police Department of the Haisinsky Police Department of the National Police Department in the Vinnitsk Region. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, the head of the General Service of the state of the state of the state in the Winnitsky area for the provision of the Oratov district of Winnitsky by a fire vehicle. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, Director General of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation, to predict the socio-economic development programme of Kiev for the construction of asphalt-covering work on the streets of Zhukov, 45th, 45th, 45th and 45th in the right-wing region of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the change to the special budget fund of Kiev through the provision of costs for the purchase and installation of security equipment for the elevator industry of the Righteous District of Kiev. Yaroslava Moskalenka to the Ministry of Political Affairs on the allocation of budgetary resources for the financial support of public associations of disabled persons and veterans in the 18th year. Alexander Briginca to the Prime Minister for the deterioration of the environmental situation in Ukraine. Vassila Niemchenka to Henprocuror to verify the legality of the investigation by the police department of the Police Department of the National Police in the Chernigiv region in the conduct of a pretrial investigation into a crime committed against a citizen of Eugene Posin. Sergey Rybalka and Alexander Kugel to the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Savings Bank to solve the problem of double payment to banks by consumers of residential services. JaroslavaDubnevich to the Minister of Defense for Funding in 2018 for the reconstruction of Building No. 7 of the military town No. 17, the city of Sambir, on the street of John Frank, 31 - B under the residence. JaroslavaDubnević under the executive responsibility of the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" to provide quality services in the transport of passengers on the suburban trains of Lviv-Syanky-Lviv. Alexandre Co-partner to the Prime Minister on the improper examination of the MP's appeal and the parliamentary request by individual officials of the Kyivrada Executive Body (Kyivsk City Administration) for the repair and strengthening of the backing wall in the territory, adjacent to the pre-school facility No. 700 on Rogozivska Street, 4 in the Dniprovov district of Kyiv. Victor Krivenk to the Kyiv District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the status of the parliamentary inquiry. PaulRizance to the Prime Minister of Finance on the need for changes to the system of accounting by the Treasury authorities to finance the expenditure of local budgets on the implementation of public social protection programmes at the expense of State budget subsidies. Mikoli Palamarczuk to Henprocuror for a systematic, constant meaningless interrogation call as a witness to the GAZTON-UKRAIN. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, on violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities by the authorities and local self-government authorities. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council, Head of the Inter-ministerial Commission for the consideration of materials on the recognition by participants of hostilities concerning the protection of the rights and guarantees of volunteers who participated in combat activities in the ATO zone of voluntary formations that did not join the force structures and who were given the status of “participating in hostilities”. IriniSiyenko to the Minister of Finance for the purpose of clarifying the financing of health - care facilities, a municipal non - commercial enterprise, at the expense of the state budget. IriniSiyenko to the Prime Minister for the provision of insulin to patients with diabetes mellitus in the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd, at the expense of the state budget. Alexander Dombrovski, until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the treatment of a cancer child. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Henprocuror, Prosecutor of the Kirovograd Region, Head of the Kirovograd Authority, Head of the Kirovograd Obhledge on the use of comprehensive measures regarding the establishment of an OTG, taking into account the free will of citizens. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the minister of youth and sport in support of the development of sports youth in the regions and financing of the construction of a football field with artificial coverage based on the children's sports school of the village of the city type Theofipol Hmelnicka district. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macoli) to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to develop pension reform with a view to substantially increasing the pension rate for the rural population. Igora Motka to the Minister of Ecology, head of the Kiev City Ministry for the Construction of New Smiths for the needs of the city of Kiev. Jaroslava Markevich to the director of the regional branch "Southern Railway" Pat "Ukrzaliznica" about the possibility of making changes to the timetable for the traffic of the coastal train, the suburban train, excuse me, the suburban train No. 7022. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister for receiving copies of documents relating to the budgetary process. GrigoryTimisa to the deputy head of the Forest Resources Authority of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent a complete cutting of a forest range of 5 hectares [5 ha] around the village of Red Dibrowa in the region of Cherniewec. Andrija Biletsky and Oleg Petrenko to Henprocuror on the state of investigation into the resonant criminal conduct of the fact that the funds were stolen from the BlackMornaftegas in the purchase of self-inflicted drilling units B312 and B319. Groups of Nardeps (Velikiković, Bondar and others) to the Head of the SBU, the Henprocuror for the use of public statements by the National Deputy of Ukraine on 5th, 6th and 7th calls from the Olena Bondarenko Party. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the increase in health expenditure in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Finance for Social and Economic Affairs in the Education Sector of the Scalatian Territorial Society of the Ternopil region. JuriyaLevchenka to the Director of the Institute of Archaeology of NAN Ukraine on illegal construction work on land near House No. 1 on Makarovska Street in Shevchenkov district of Kiev. JuriyaLevchenka to the Director of the Institute of Archaeology of NAN Ukraine on illegal construction work on land 9, 11, 26 H on Otto Schmidt Street in Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Ukrainian State Service in the affairs of war veterans and anti-terrorists. Sergei Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to simplify the grant mechanism. Jury Pavlovka to the head of the National Police on the improper fight against illegal casinos in the city of Zitomir. Jury Pavlenko to the minister of education about the lack of cooperation between education and the public in the process of introducing inclusive education. Tetian Chornwall to Henprocuror to investigate the beating of students in Euromaiden. Paul Kishkar to Minister of Internal Affairs, Henproktor, Minister of Justice for the illegal obstruction of Ukraine’s National Museum of History. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror for improper investigation during the pretrial investigation. Victor Krivenk Henprocuror for the proper support of the state's criminal charges. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister on the breakdown of the privatisation process of the DP "Ukraine" by officials of the General Directorate of the State Department of the Djorgheokadastr in the Žitomir region. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister for directing funds to repair the M-21 Zitomir-Istupovich road. Roman Semenha to the director of the State concert "Ucrobornprom", head of the Kharkiv Observatories to resolve the issue of restoring proper functioning and paying off the debt on salaries for the HZT DP. Roman Semenha to the prosecutor in Kharkiv district for the verification of circumstances that may indicate signs of criminal offences related to the activity of the Department of Electricity. Julia Yooffe to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the protection of the rights of a citizen named Viktor Hovyakov, to assist in receiving a manual on salary for the period of work (service) from the elimination of the consequences of the accident at Chernobyl’s AES, taking into account the revaluation of the financial security. Aunt Ostrikov to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide information on tax receipts. Aunt Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for providing information. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science on the use of measures to prevent the reputation of teachers from diminishing. Alexander Revega and Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to eliminate corruption and bribery in the Chief Executive of the DFS in the Zitomir region. Victor Wolfe to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the investigation of the seizure of the Hall of the Cherkas City Council, the violence against its deputies, the obstruction of their activities and the inaction of the law enforcement authorities during the plenary session of the Cherkas City Council on January 29th, 18th. Jury of Derevyanka to the Head of the Supreme Council on the appeal to the coalition of European factions in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council for the appointment of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine and the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine. Sergey Rudika to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association Cherkasigaz to solve the problem of paying off the debt for gas consumed by the heating operator in the city of Smil Cherkas region. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Culture, on the urgent settlement of the issue of the increase in salaries for the libraries of Kamyansk, Smiljansk and Cherka district, Kamyanka and Smil, as well as for other districts and cities in the Cherka region and in Ukraine as a whole. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Kyiv District Government to assist residents of the town of Makarov and the village of Novosilka Makarovsky region, who were affected by the natural gas explosion. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the construction of the Lvivska Gate subway station in Kiev. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister on the solution of the social and psychological problems of hostages who were illegally deprived and held in occupied areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Boris Kozir to the head of the Kyiv observatories for the 18th year of the "O" road, Tyre, 100805 on a two-way section, and one mile from the branch of the MST "Friendship" to the Vishni VSt. JuriyaTimoshenka to the minister of ecology about possible construction in the park area in Colomia. JuriyaTimoshenka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund to ensure that the pension is recalculated. Savchenko's hopes for the Minister of Defence regarding the inadequate examination of the MP's appeal and the lack of proper response by the Ministry of Defence to the situation at the GP 59 military town number 36, which is addressed: Kharkiv City, Seminarska Street, 46, a relatively unsatisfactory state of residence, the highest degree of fire risk and the absence of any legal basis for the residence of residents in this hostel. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister for the provision of additional funding for hearing impaired children in 2018. John Rybak to the head of the District Council of Czernovetsec for the rehabilitation of the pharmacy in the village of Komarovka Strážinetsky district, in the region of Cherniveck. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Montenegrin District Administration, head of the Visnik Region State Department for the provision of medical assistance to residents of the village of Berezongka in the region of Cherniveck. Dmitra Shenceva to the Prime Minister for the pension insurance of pensioners of internal affairs and military pensioners. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the need to finance objects and actions in Kharkiv at the expense of government budget subsidies. Valérie Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the National List of Major Medical Devices for the benefit categories of the population and the elderly. Victoria Vojtsiecki to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration regarding the failure of the Dniproenergo's "DTEK Dniproenergo" to implement measures to limit the discharge of pollutants. Colleagues, 270 requests have been completed at this publication. We also have, and I've been given a few references from the national MPs who have expressed dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to their address. This is National Deputy Lechchenko. Please, Mr. Lechchenka, you are invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u80	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, it would be good if the operator showed the broadcast of our meeting, which is an empty hall. Today is a working day in Parliament. There are, well, one, two, 15, I think, 20 deputies, from power, are now in the session room. You know, that's the price of corruption in politics when people go to parliament to do business instead of doing professional political work. But it's a little trailer that takes us all the way to changing labor legislation so that we don't have a major system that gets people into politics who want to make that money and then become Ukrainian oligarchs. A little trailer just to let you see what's going on in the session room. On another subject, I would like to make a dedication. I regularly and regularly receive complaints about Ukrainian intelligence, the Ukrainian Security Service. You know that Ukrainian intelligence is actually two institutions. The first is the real Ukrainian freedom fighters who are struggling with divers who are struggling to prevent national security from being undermined in Ukraine, so that we have everything as it is in civilized countries. But there's another service in the back. And this is a service that's just doing a racket of business that's trying to put the last cent in Ukrainian entrepreneurs, in small and medium-sized businesses. And in order to prevent this shameful practice, in the session hall we've already collected signatures and will register a bill that will deprive the U.S.A. of its own functions, the functions of the business racket, the functions of earning. You know, in recent years, scandals have erupted. So these are compressed gas importers that were finally under the pressure of the BSO and prices went up on this fuel, and you saw how the summer price went up because of the lack of competition. Copper exporters, peanut exporters, importers of horse alcohol, importers of herbicides, protection, plant protection, and so forth. All of these were customers of the S.B.I. Why are you here? I don't understand. There's no other reason to make money here. And that's absurd. What's going on? You've probably seen Ukrainian citizens in America this week, what technology is going into space -- the Falcon Heavy spaceship, it's bringing out special equipment, cars, electric cars and so on. And in Ukraine, we've actually deteriorated to the point where we're turning all people's initiatives, businesses, instead of giving them support, just into a means of making money. It's totally insane. And, of course, we have to fight this, we have to build European standards in Ukraine for security services, especially considering the fact that this is a requirement on the way to NATO. The NATO office has been supporting the reform of the BSS, which has been drinking for more than two years in the Presidential Administration because they do not want to give away this means of earning money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is also a speech by the National MP, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who has made an appropriate statement that he is not satisfied with the answer that came to his parliamentary request. I invite you, Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, today I was listening to "an hour of questions to the government," as I always thought carefully, and I thought of such a story. 1957 U.S. Writers’ Assembly A representative from the Russian Federation has arrived. He taught the writers how to write, criticized them for ideological perversions. And when the official part was over, the summary shows: Where can you wash your hands? Maxim Tadejovich Rilski said to him, "You can do it." So I have to say, when I've been listening to the government, it turns out that there are reforms everywhere, but at the same time, the situation on the ground remains quite difficult. It is obvious that the Ukrainian people are dying, that particular attention should be paid to this, without covering up adopted laws that have only made the situation worse. I'll show you. In 2012, a surgical complex began to be built in Novograd-Wolinski, which, by the way, is a military town that joins more than 110,000 people, and as a hospital district three times as big. Sadly, with the beginning of known events in eastern Ukraine, construction had ceased. I asked three questions. It was promised here, including in the session hall, that the construction would continue. In 2016, the MP's request, at the beginning of 2017, the MP's request, at the end of 2017, the MP's request. The answer is standard: "Minregionbud has been entrusted to the Zitomir district administration to further study this issue." And after I criticized that this decision was not being implemented, the distribution of state aid, emphasis, subsidies for the social economic development of individual territories all the settlements and constituencies of constituency number 65 were thrown out. This means that people have been punished for criticism that is objective in terms of what is actually happening in places. I have an offer, Madam Chairman, to have the Apparatus analyzed, let's say, on all parliamentary requests, I emphasize, what was the response over the course of the year. I'm convinced, and I'm saying that it's usually write-offs, football and not solving the problem in fact. But I think the national MP, I'm sure he's working in the district, he knows he's feeling the pain spots and the problems that people live in. And finally, to the end. I'll tell you, dear fellows, I've never heard such a superior conversation that we have during an hour of questions to the government. Instead of essentially talking about the problem, they start reprimanding, accusing, and so forth. I think that the right would be to do that if we had a much better situation than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u83	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just want to agree with what we all need, well, more respect for each other in this room during discussions and presentations. Colleagues, I'm going to read two announcements that have come to the fore, with your permission. Announcement. "In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Force of Law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Antonio Fedorovich, Krivoshei Gennady Grigorovovich, Matko's Bogdan Mironovich, Mikhail Josephovich, and Zastavan Josipovich. ” We want fruitful work in the interfractional union, including the unification of the session hall. And the second announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the National Deputies Assembly of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The announcement and declaration of the formation of this union were signed by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kryvoshea Hennady Grigorovich, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich, and 13 other Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. And after the break, there'll be a traditional feature every Friday of the national MPs' performances in the "Rizzny" section, "Rizzne." My colleague, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, continues the meeting. And I'm asking everyone who wants to participate in. [[B in m in s a l in]] At 12:30. At 12:30. And that's why I'm asking you all to come back to the session room, those who want to participate, those who want to participate in the "Variance" section at 12:30. There were no records. There was no entry for this letter, which will take place immediately after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please prepare to participate in the recording. I'd like you to make a recording of the performances in "The Miscellaneous." [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I ask you all to respond calmly. Who's not in the hall, and I see who's not in the hall, so they're just, their cards weren't working, so they won't get the word. Only those physically present during the recording receive the word. I'd like to introduce you to the House of Commons. I would like to welcome you to the speech of the National Deputy Michael Golovka, and then to Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u85	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow national MPs, a very important question I would like to raise. What is happening in our country according to the financial policies and monetary policies of our country and the National Bank of Ukraine. Today we have never heard the report of the Head of the National Bank of Gontar, in a matter of which the national MPs have also repeatedly addressed and addressed to the law enforcement agencies, and no criminal case has ever been solved, for 400 billion, I would like to stress 400 billion dollars that have been removed from the financial system of the Ukrainian State. Ukraine lost, of course, including the stability of the course, which fell three times, the national bracelet, and this resulted in a colossal inflation of more than 125 percent, rising prices of utilities, medicines, goods, and essentials. Every Ukrainian has been destitute, not three times, but ten times in order. And of course, in conditions where Ukraine is not the poorest state in the centre of Europe and a simple Ukrainian today, it's a genocide that is intended to destroy our industrial state, to turn it into an income of raw materials, and it's certainly responsible for the leadership of our country, the President and the Head of the National Bank. In view of the fact that there was no case against Gontar, we did not hear her report. What's the main thing that they did? Unfortunately, in the Constitution and by law, Parliament is castrated and has no right to release the head of the National Bank. And I would like to look to the leadership of the country and to the heads of other factions, all factions in Parliament, to the national MPs, to register changes to the Constitution, to give Parliament the right to release the head of the National Bank and to hold it accountable. Today we do not have these opportunities and this is unfair, including when, according to the Constitution today, Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential state. But Parliament has no right to do so. The blocked possibility of creating temporary commissions of inquiry, which is a key priority for us to investigate top-owner crimes, and today Parliament's task is to put these laws to the vote. "Freedom" requires and supports the adoption of the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, as well as Parliament's right to appeal to the Head of the National Bank, and, of course, we require the law enforcement authorities, the Attorney General's Office, the NABU, to all open criminal cases against Gontarev for the crimes that have committed to the Ukrainian economy, to bring her to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u86	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Najema.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! I would like to address now those of our listeners who may not know what is happening in our country with regard to law enforcement. This year a very powerful investigative body, the State Bureau of Investigation, will start working in the country. It's a body that will assume all the functions of investigation from the Attorney General's Office. At present, only three people work in this body — the head of the body, Mr. Truba, and two of his deputies. Unfortunately, today we see that the creation of this organ slows down. The external commission that elected the head and his deputies is now illegal, does not work, has completely stopped its work, because there are no qualifications for the heads of the territorial authorities. There is no authority to choose those organs that they are entrusted with and, above all, this body was created by itself by illegal means. Because some members of this committee don't. do not meet the criteria laid down in the law. The other one. The internal commissions, which will now recruit investigators into this body, can now be elected without representatives of the Public Council of Virtue, without representatives of the public at all. We are now seeing a situation where the public is completely removed from this process. And the last thing I'd like to say is about the State Bureau of Investigation. Unfortunately, this body has now become political, as far as I know, Mr. Truba is now very active in consulting representatives of the People's Front, namely Mr. Pashinsky. Another colleague, Mr. Winnick, is constantly consulting Mr. Trubu on legal matters. On the other hand, our colleague, Mr. Granowski, works. Regrettably, the body has not yet been created, but it has already created problems with the exercise of all authority and with its objectivity. I really want us to pay attention to that. And the second question I'd like to raise today. Ten days from now, there will be an anniversary of the shootings on Midan. In these days, one of the figures of this case is Mr. Yuri Krissin. This is the man who collected 18 numbers of aunts, came to the streets of Vladimirsk, and there, along with their supporters, they killed journalist Veremius. One hit him in the head, he fell down, then he was shot, and then he got into the hospital. Now we know that Mr. Krisin was not just a participant in these events, he was the organizer of these events. In his speeches, he always said that he was the one who collected the aunts. We know he knew about the shootings of 18 numbers. And we've already learned that during the interrogations he said that he passed on information about the shooting of 18 of our college, which is the governor of the Mikolai district, Mr. Savchenk. Savchenko knew about the shootings in Maidan before they took place, 17 numbers. What he did with that information, we don't know. But Mr. Krisin, which is now. Accused of murder, now dismissed on the cover of an article about bullying. March 1st is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u88	Ten seconds. I won't give anyone any more time to give everyone a chance to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u89	On March 1st, there will be an appeal. And we hope that the court will choose the right decision and that Mr. Krisin will be put in prison for the murder of journalist Veremia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u90	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u91	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, good afternoon! I want to raise an important topic of humanitarian exchange in Ukraine. Unfortunately, tragic figures, but as of today, Ukraine is among the ten most polluted areas in the world. This means, in fact, that our soldiers die every day, our people die. Our civilians also develop from shells that pollute Ukrainian territory every day. According to law - enforcement officials, at least a thousand Ukrainians were affected by the destruction of the mines left on Ukrainian soil. This means that even after the end of the conflict, after we win the war, after we've reselled our territories, we'll have to search for, de-mining and de-mining all these shells and mines that lie on our land for about 30 years. At the same time, in order to start demarcating the territory today, we need to adopt legislation that will result. It will improve our legislation and bring it to international standards. This will enable us to engage in international assistance. There is no doubt that the Ukrainian budget will not be able to overcome the amount of resources that we need to involve. Last week our government's parliamentary delegation was in Croatia, where we studied our colleagues' experience of how our neighbors worked after winning the war in 95. We were there with fellow MP Andrey Teteruk, including. What experience have we brought to Ukraine, and what should we do here in parliament today? We are guilty of adopting the Law on Humanitarian Demining as soon as possible, taking this privilege exclusively from the military. That'll let us get the money in, I'm talking about billions of dollars from international donors. This will allow us to engage private companies that will be able to engage in humanitarian exchanges. At the same time, this law should have very powerful control tools, including parliamentary control. We must prevent billions of money from being allowed to be used by private structures or by public structures to abuse their powers. Therefore, controls will be key in this legislation. Thus, we now call on the Defence Committee to submit to Parliament as soon as possible the Law on Humanitarian Demining. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u92	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Tetjano Ostrickov. He gave her the word of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u93	Tetjana Ostrova, Self-help faction. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! The Ukrainian authorities seem to have come up with a way to prevent the deterioration of Ukraine’s position in world ratings, since it is impossible to fall if you are already down. Heritage Foundation – Washington’s leading analytical centre published an economic freedom survey of the world, and Ukraine placed it last in Western Europe. An independent view of our country's realities tells us that we now have to catch up with Moldova and Belarus, not to mention Poland, our neighboring or completely unattainable Western Europe. So we need to make immediate changes that will push the economy, which means that our entrepreneurs will be able to work and develop. Why is it that neither the internal nor external investor is in a hurry to invest in Ukraine’s economy? Because at any given time, the force will come to the company and prevent jobs: there will be fighters at the IT plant, there will be forty officers involved in the search, so that the three contracts of the old will be removed, there will be a state betrayal when the customs are imported, and they will not engage in their direct work to combat treason, espionage and the financing of terrorism. There's something about the political will to eliminate the economic units of the BSS, the police, the Attorney General's Office, the military prosecutor's office that we have to do with the economy. There is no political will to do this, and unfortunately, there is now no single body to investigate all financial crimes in the public finances of the state and the budget for tax evasion and the spending of taxpayers in the state budget. Also at the American Heritage Foundation think tank rating, we got bad grades based on the rule of law and the integrity of the government. That is why we really need the Anti-Corruption Court, because the courts in Ukraine make discriminatory decisions. They're opaque, they're damaging the development of the market economy in Ukraine. The courts are destroying the individual motivation of entrepreneurial activity, because any fruit of activity at any time can be taken by the judicial decision of those close to power. Economic freedom is primarily the free movement of capital, it's free monetary regulation, but it should be preceded by automatic communication with banks and with relevant authorities in other countries. The report of international groups of companies in the Ukrainian Tax Code is due to work on transfer pricing. In Ukraine, foreign companies that are owned or controlled by Ukrainian citizens should be taxed. And this is our number one job this year. If we want investment, we need to cancel the income tax, introduce the capital tax, adopt the new Electoral Code that will change the ruling elites, pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act and create a single body of financial investigations. That's what will give us economic freedom and high places in this rating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u94	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Semimenah. He was given the word of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u95	Good day to you all! Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, the presiding lady! Recently, the Supreme Council passed a very important law on simplifying privatization. Sadly, though, the state remains the most inefficient owner. And today, from this high-priority rostrum, I want to tell you some gruesome facts that are a sign not only of inefficiency, but in fact of the crime that is taking place in Kharkiv state enterprises. Electricity is an enterprise that's known all over the world. An enterprise that is known for its design and production of turbogenerators, hydrogenerators for urban and rail electricity, and has partnership with more than 50 countries around the world. At the same time, despite the apparent high demand for the products produced by the enterprise, there is absolutely no investment in the enterprise. The enterprise has actually been converted into a four-day weekly work mode. Because today, as a result of such a campaign, the enterprise is being driven into poverty. What is more, today the analysis of what is happening in the factory tells us what is next. Today, it is impossible to directly buy often-prepared products at the Power Plant. That's what happens at the expense of brokering companies that withdraw money from Ukraine that should be paid into the state budget. Moreover, the same is true of government procurement. Because today most of the purchases made by the state-owned electric power plant are done in the same way through the broker companies, because it makes it so much easier to produce electric power, because the power plant loses its markets because its production loses its competitiveness. Moreover, a few years later, the government, the State Property Fund, failed to hold a public competition that ended with the signing of a new management contract. Today, the factory still has the position of head of the executive branch. So I went with the facts that I became familiar with, the law enforcement agencies, the district attorney's office with an immediate requirement for a review, as well as the government to hold a competition and appoint a legitimate director. The next example. The Kharkiv Transport Equipment Factory is a world-renowned giant. During the time of the Soviet Union, some 7,000 people were working in Ukraine as well. The plant that implemented BTR-3E, BTR-4E, and other defence products. But think about it. Today, during the war, an enterprise that's part of the Defense Prom has a payroll debt. It's not enough that this is actually a direct violation of the law, an enterprise that today is supposed to provide for the front, an army for all that is needed, has no orders and has a payroll debt. I also made a similar appeal yesterday to the MPs calling for immediate repayment of a few months of debt to the people and to the D.O.R.'s leadership to order their own business, because today, because of the imprudentity of the D.O.R. activity, we have such a nuisance in the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u96	Thank you. National Deputy Ishchenko. None. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Musia. Yeah, together. He was given the word by the national deputy Didic, and along with his time, he was given six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u97	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, again. Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. Thank you, first of all, for giving the floor to the UKROP party. There's going to be a little bit more to say, because the question that I'm going to raise is extremely important. This is a question of the image of Ukraine in the world and of how the Ukrainian current authorities treat Ukrainians and Ukrainian history in the middle of our country. I was motivated by this speech by a spineless, totally misunderstood position of the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, who is responsible for our foreign economic policies, our government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should respond not only to anxiety, but to others, to concern and all, to the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. And that statement, knowing that the Polish president signed an anti-Ukrainian law that follows the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian nation, we vote absolutely spinelessly, shamefully for the Ukrainians, for those. for the Ukrainian Parliament. And we're still, knowing what he signed, the Polish president, this law, the responses to today's zero. Why did this happen? In fact, there is a reason. And the best treatment for the disease, as a doctor, is prevention. So, a year and a half ago, for the purpose of this kind of prevention from the chauvinistic position of the current leadership of the Polish State, which continues in a sequential manner and disgraces friendship with Ukraine. It was registered by the People’s Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which restores historical justice here in the middle of Ukraine. And we need to take proactive steps and establish historical justice in our home rather than reacting to someone’s accusations toward Ukraine. We don't know if anyone will deny that the Ukrainian-Polish relationship during the reign of the Polish state in the territory of the original indigenous lands where the Ukrainians lived was a genocide of the Polish state, the state, I emphasize, against the Ukrainians. But I don't think any sober-minded person would deny it. It is known that since 1919, when the Polish state became the same Yusef Pilsudski, who is a hero in Poland, and may he be a hero there, but he is a terrorist and is a traitor to the Ukrainian People's Republic, who has given Russia the West Ukrainian People's Republic, in fact. A concentration camp created by Poland, a Polish state concentration camp, and they are responsible as well as Fascist or Nazi Germany, for the Polish concentration camp in Berezi-Khartuski, where thousands of Ukrainians were killed, at the national level. The next act of genocide was Operation Vistula. How many Ukrainians were burned to death. The next act of genocide is known to all of the concentration camps. Wasn't it? How can this be denied? But somehow we're looking at the reaction of Poland, the reaction of someone else, not the reaction of Ukrainians and Ukrainian society. Until we tolerate the abuse of our neighbours and honor and honor those Ukrainians who have fallen, innocently killed, including the Polish state in Ukrainian-Polish uneasy relations? Of course, we have to put a dot on this decision here, giving the memory and honour of the Ukrainians who were innocently murdered: both Ukrainian children, Ukrainian women, Ukrainian pensioners, and Ukrainian older men, and Ukrainian fighters. It's historically our truth. Why do we hide our heads in the sand and not talk about it openly and openly, regardless of the reaction of our neighbors? It seems that the Ukrainian Supreme Council is part of the Seima, part of the Senate, part of the U.S. Congress, part of the Israeli Knesset, part of the Russian Duma. We are the Ukrainian Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have to take care of the Ukrainian people. That's why I demand -- and I ask you to consider this as my deputy's address to the Head of the Supreme Council -- I demand a half-and-a-half-and-a-half-a-year-old decree in 5012 to put it in the order of the day, and let the Ukrainian Supreme Council determine what it thinks from this question. Next. That's a disgraceful question. Where there are 41 people's deputies' signatures, this is Bill 4979. I'm also asking you to bring him into the dayroom. On the Conciliation Council, I have repeatedly asked the Head of the Supreme Council: Introduce, recognize those children who were born in exile and in exile, as almost all the countries of the world have done, being repressed. It seems a great disgrace that the Russian Federation, our enemy, has issued such documents that, according to the signature of a two-headed Russian eagle, Russia has recognized those born of UN gang supporters as repressive, and Ukraine has not yet declared these children repressive. Isn't that a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament? The enemy declares UN-UPA repressed, and Ukraine does not. The signature of the Head of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u98	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u99	Thank you. Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have asked such questions on several occasions from this rostrum, and today is a day like this again. Dear people's deputies, I'm asking you for your help. In the small town of Kamyanka-Buzka district of Lviv, there is an 8-year-old child named Rocsolana Lazar with a rare brain disease called Moya. This disease results in strokes, loss of vision, and epilepsy. For six months, parents struggled with bureaucracy, filed the necessary documents with the MOH for treatment abroad, and so far it has not worked. According to the latest, another expert is waiting to sign from abroad, and this is a matter for the commission. A girl needs a costly operation that was agreed only in Switzerland, and the clinic sent Roxolana an invitation on May 4, 2018. The operation has two stages, each of which costs $130,000. This amount is inconceivable to a girl’s parents, a family in a hopeless situation, because it is very difficult to raise such an amount. Hence, they turn to each of us for help. You and I are one of their hopes, and we need to show that we can help in any situation. "Children is our future" is not an empty phrase. There are no foreign children. We need to give this child a chance at health and life, so let’s help this girl together. Recruit the account for Roxolani Lazarus: 4149499104250624 – Lazarus Victoria Alexandrovna, mother of the girl; 41494348493944 – Lazarus Alexander Anatoliyovich, father of the girl; contact phone number of the parents – 0672823201. I also owe myself, as did previous children who needed help, to count 10,000 dollars. Therefore, please join in the collection of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u100	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People’s Deputy, who gave him the word Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u101	Instead of Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u102	Yeah, yeah, we switched places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u103	Thank you, Madam Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the eighth session of the eighth call has begun. As we worked, we all saw. Well, unfortunately, it may not have allowed us to work this breakfast trip to America to Trump. We understand that very well, someone wants to fight, someone wants to spend the extra money, but I'd really like that money that went there to support America to give our fighters east, and that would be much better. But at the same time, despite the fact that few people were in the hall, we were able to accept many things. For one thing, this is 6536 — unhindered access to buildings and buildings for people with disabilities. At the same time, I want to remind you that we've protected some of it in the first place. On second reading, the housing rights of orphans and deprived parents. And above all, the 7429 that we've accepted with you, these are early retirements for the members of the families who died in the Dignity Revolution, and I think it's very important that some protection of these people and some respect for them who have remained, whose relatives died in the Maidan during the Dignity Revolution, will be. But first of all, I'd like to say another thing, we're going to work in the constituencies, and so the first thing I really wanted is for the government to keep its word. I think that Andrew Reva, our minister, if he said that in the villages they would raise and recalculate pensions for people, for workers who received small, small pensions, that would be a very big plus. But, at the same time, today, I would like us to go to the farmers and to the people who keep the cows separate. This is, first of all, it's in my hands, the state support for agriculture is the 2018 program. We would like to make the right use of it, especially in the villages. Because people think they're coming, once or twice -- and they've already given them these 2.5 grand to keep the cow. No, it needs to be, it needs to be registered, registered, and identified, so that the cow can be identified, so that the cow can be tested, that you can still be on the farm boards. And the second is that of our farmers, our respectable, this is question number one: we have to make the right use of these funds, because in particular, the return to animal farms of buildings and reconstruction. And I would certainly like the government to keep the word and ask, asking completely, as far as possible, how much easier it is to document. And so that we don't go back to hiding when we were getting 5-8.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u104	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, who was given the word "two deputies from the People's Front" Stashuk and Yemen, which is why it's been set for six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u105	Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. Thank my colleagues, Vitalia Stasuk and Leonidas, for their word. Dear colleagues! Everyone already knows that in this Parliament I represent not only the interests of Ukraine, but, first of all, the people of the Boguslav region, Mironovsky, Kagarlic and Rokitan region. We all know that in this district it has been certain, not one year does not work properly, chosen by these residents and residents of the area, a deputy. Therefore, my responsibility and personality as a native of the Boguslav region, the city of Boguslav, help the population. We all know, and if anyone doesn't know, I'd like to point out once again that last week the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with a working visit, was in our hometown of Boguslav, where he held a number of work meetings, spent the right kind of business. In particular, this is the so-called Jaroslav PP, one of the largest textile producers in Ukraine. He went to our Technical and Vocational School No.16, where he held an appropriate meeting on the subject of light industry. During this meeting, important, rather serious questions were raised regarding light industry manufacturers. I would like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who gave appropriate instructions after this working meeting, who drew attention to the problems that concern our producers, and there were producers not only in the city of Boguslav or in the region of Kiev, but in general in Ukraine. It's already the second one. And I would like those promises and those direct assignments that were given to the Prime Minister in this profile, in this field, I would like them to be carried out as quickly as possible. In turn, as Ukraine's national deputy, I would like to draw the attention of this government to a number of comments that relate to changes in the relevant legislative instruments. I'm willing to support any initiative. Any initiative of the government that will help develop a business that will help and make all those who can pay more taxes on the spot. At the same time, I would like to point out that during this visit to the town of Boguslav, the local authorities raised the question of the creation of the Boguslav community, and the Prime Minister supported this initiative. And today, in principle, the Kyiv District Administration has already spoken its word. And we're waiting for the C.V.C.C. to make the right decision. The Boguslav community will also have other communities in the Kyiv region. This will make it possible to make better use of the producer’s costs in areas where taxes will reach the territorial communities of the respective united communities in each district, in each community. At the same time, I would like to pay attention, especially to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. At one of the government meetings, I raised the issue of making appropriate changes to one of the regulations coordinated and profiled. which includes tasks carried out by the Ministry of Health itself with regard to the provision of medicines in the appropriate population categories, where the State has undertaken to assist them in the purchase of medicines or other medicines. This is true of medicines that, for example, promote the growth hormone of young children. Parents are unable to buy their children for money. For their own expenses, medicines are precious. But there is a small problem that I have focused on, and there is an appropriate mandate for Mrs. Suprun’s Acting Minister of Health, who I hope will be able to fulfill his promise and make appropriate changes to the Procurement Order. There's a small problem, the drugs are bought, but one or the other isn't always suitable, and it's not always absorbed in our body, and it's not, it's not working as well as it should be. So in my address, I gave this information accordingly. And I ask you once again to take Prime Minister Vladimir Graysman this issue for control to make changes to the relevant Order on the purchase of appropriate medical supplies and not just about growth hormone, but other medicines, which require constant appeals from ordinary ordinary citizens to the Ministry, to make changes to this decision. It's the health of our children, we shouldn't think about the company that supplies drugs from abroad and how much we need to pay for them. We have to think about who and what drugs are needed and this is going to talk about the efficiency of using the budget. And so we're going to be buying exactly the kind of medicine they need. To date, the priority of cooperation between government and parliament is quite important. Today, cooperation between parliament and local self - government is quite important. And I want to tell everyone that if local authorities don't comply with the legal rules and do not comply with the laws that we're adopting here, it's no longer a problem of parliamentarians, it's a problem of government, it's a problem of every minister, it's a problem of every structural unit that can't monitor it. And we see that this is a problem, so we've created an interfractional MP union called the Force of the Law. I was invited to this association. And I invite all the parliamentarians to draw attention to the fact that every legislative norm is what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u106	Thank you. You had six minutes. I invite you to the floor of the people’s MP Musaka, who has been given the floor by the national deputy of Palamarczuk. It's a pantyhose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u107	He gave it to me. Good afternoon, Ukrainian community, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. In fact, today this column, which is called "The Difference," but it's not really different, it's about the main thing. Because people here say what really bothers them, they say it's not under any big cameras, and when many people do, and someone listens to them. Now, if only it was a select group of national deputies. I'd like to really talk about opportunities and freedom, which is the foundation of the 21st century. In this respect, Ukraine is not what is lagging behind, we are simply cementing our lag. When in the Supreme Council, when in the Cabinet of Ministers, when the President even says that as a state only has to care about pensions, I think it's wrong. Because first of all, we have to take care of the possibilities for a business that generates this money for retirement, and in fact, how do people actually earn themselves? And you don't have to say that the happiness of the Ukrainian people is just that they're going to raise a minimum pension or a salary. The happiness of the Ukrainian people will be when, in fact, it will be able to earn a normal, quality, without the help of the State. In this respect, I think it's extremely critical, it's wrong, I don't even know, I don't know, I don't know, it's just a screaming situation that's cryptic. [[Applause]] There are literate people in Ukraine, quite a lot of them. Why did the state that didn't create, for example, no conditions to help these people, and they built a business, they bought a maintenance farm, they paid taxes, they consume electricity. In fact, in the amount of electricity that is available for maintenance, it cannot be consumed illegally because it is visible that they are paying for it. So why are these people the S.B.I., the M.I.D., the cyber police, and everyone else thinks they're a criminal? Because, what, they make money and they're rich now? Well, that's not right. Like if we're building communism, that everyone should be equal in poverty, that's one story, but we're kind of building a slightly different model of the state. I think it's more like we're moving quietly into the police state. I'd like to say the next thing, I've become a technological hub in Ukraine. Ask yourself, ‘ Why is there no Google Glass in Ukraine? Well, that's what a thing is, Google glasses. Because in fact, to import this, well, really new technology into Ukraine, you need permission from the BSS. She won't allow it. Why is there no other thing in Ukraine? Why is it that in Ukraine you actually have to get permission to bring in a 3D printer? Because it turns out to be the product of a double assignment. Well, a lot of other things. How should we really promote freedom rather than create restrictions for business and for Ukrainian citizens? Because we're essentially going to be cut off from technological development, and we're going to turn very quickly into the Amazonic tribes, which, in principle, don't worry anybody, sometimes planes come to see if they're okay. That's what we're going to do. Therefore, the honorable, the more freedom, the less restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u108	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u109	Good afternoon. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. A new week began, and a new session began. And for her, the key test will be the adoption of the Open List Act. We really need to get rid of this rudimentary, especially in our conditions of the major election system. Yes, there are a few dozen decent men of the sea, but basically we see what this is turning into, it's a total bribe of voters and actual irresponsibility in Parliament that change their position here very often. And yet again, I am not able to marry all of them in one peace, and I call upon all the political forces that signed the Coalition Agreement, all the MPs that were running around to read the election programs that they promised people both integrity and open lists. Today, the Prime Minister began to talk about open lists. We hope that it will turn on all its power in order to achieve this because it is essential for Ukraine. And we're also going to see over the past month and a month and a half, and we're going to see how the amendment work is going on, and how the committee works. And the People’s Movement is not ready to bring out hundreds, but thousands of its ones to Parliament. We recently even, here is Yuri Derevyanko, we were on one of the airs and agreed that there would be seven political forces, if everyone brings thousands of their fellow parties to the Supreme Council, I think we're going to adopt this bill a lot faster. The National Movement of Ukraine is ready for this. It is also vital that we understand the need to remove political advertising from TV channels. So this is the basis of inequality, this is the basis of corruption that is in Parliament, this is the basis of what happens when normal people are very difficult to enter parliament because it takes millions of dollars to get through television channels. Many more questions will be asked at this session, economic issues. That's not what this is about. I'd like to stop at an important event. Yesterday was the premiere of the movie "Myth" about Vasil Blindak. And I urge all the Ukrainians to come to this film. In it life is as it is, and Basil is as he was, and cheerful, and humor, and certainly the tragedy of the Ukrainian people with this war, with destruction. I wanted to ask the Ukrainians to take their children. Make sure that you bring your children into the picture. It's very important to us. And a huge thank you to the copyright team that did this. I wanted to ask our Ministry of Education to rename the Cultural Information Center at our Embassy in Paris and give it the name Vasil Blindak. And they called on the Parisian authorities to name the street on which the Ukrainian Embassy is located. I don't think Paris has as much power as Washington did. You know Washington named the street where the Russian embassy called the boulevard Boris Nemtsov. Of course, it would be nice if the French authorities of Paris called the street where the embassy of an aggressor country by the name of Vasil Blindak. And on Monday, it's going to be 5 years when we're gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u110	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u111	Monday will be 5 years before we have the fourth head of the People's Movement of Ukraine, Mr. Widowenk. He who has the opportunity, remember him. She was an outstanding person.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u112	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. I take it Melnik's not here? Yes. It's a flier. Please. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't notice. Excuse me. People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u113	Good afternoon, fellow dignitaries, Sergey Melnik, 187 constituency, Hmelnicki. One more time, I want to draw attention to the injustice of recalculating pensions. When we're every time, especially senior MPs, we listen when we work in our districts. This is primarily true of teachers, health workers, agricultural workers who have worked long hours and have been affected by this injustice today. That is why we need to settle this issue. Another category of veterans who received a New Year's gift is the Ukrainian Armed Forces veterans, who, by order of December 27, 1052 last year, have been suspended from carrying out the census to paragraph 10 of the Cabinet Order of Ministers of Ukraine since August 30, No. 704. That's why I want to bring to the attention of the Hmelnick district council of the Ukrainian veterans' organization. Because you know that Hmelnica was one of the most militarized areas in Ukraine and many military pensioners are living today. People ask what they want. In this year's government budget, we have increased spending on monetary support for all categories: both military personnel and the individual composition of all power structures. So today, there are tens of times as much money as the pension that these people receive without having been recalculated since 2008. I think that, well, an Afghan colonel who has 28 years of service can't get 2,000, 800 dollars today. So you know, you're going through these rallies, the demonstrations on the demand that you actually do these calculations. Therefore, it is the veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who demand, first of all, to prevent the adoption of a non-conformity between the veteran community and the active force structure of the new draft Pension Insurance Act for persons released from military service and some others. Cancel Order 1052 immediately. List previously assigned pensions for military service retirees Stop the illegal, in their view, from the hands of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court blocking opportunities and appeals to the court. And we know that today the European Court of Justice has united all the lawsuits of our pensioners and will be held in March. That's why, aside from the fact that we're going to have to make a recalculation of pensions, that's exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u114	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u115	When requirements are ignored, they leave behind the right to more stringent and antitrust actions against the restriction of the constitutional rights of military pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u116	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians, you know, corruption, it doesn't just steal money from the budget, it steals money from each of us, because we consume it through the budget, through a variety of programs. But it's still stealing the future from all Ukrainians, because it's because of corruption that the lobbyists, who then redistribute all the money, all the social benefits in their interests. And you know that Ukrainian agrarian oligarchs, because of corruption, they buy yachts that are jealous of all international specialized publications, and somewhere on the lazur coast of France, they write about them; they buy private planes, and we continue to subsidize the economy of the past on account of this corruption. So we also have other oligarchs who, by heat, use Rotterdam Plus to enrich themselves, buy private planes, buy the most expensive apartments in London. And then our economy deteriorates. So corruption, it doesn't just make us poorer, it makes us competitive. And instead of becoming a leading country, we turn into a raw income, into a country where they're just growing, where they're just extracting and exporting it abroad, they don't make anything, they don't make anything of their own. And of course it's very sad, because Ukrainians are brilliant, Ukrainians are very talented, and lately more and more Ukrainians are talking about the world, and Ukrainian startups are winning all the international specialized exhibitions. We have several companies that have already been announced at the specialized exhibition CES this year, it's a Cardiomo special device to do a real-time cardiogram. It's a famous Ukrainian alreadyKickstarter electricbikeDelfast that's installed and landed, and now it's in the world Guinness record book, like a Tesla analog to a car, which runs on one charge, 367 kilometers. Ukrainian startups, they go to Apple Store stores all over the world and they're sold there with "designed in Ukraine," but it's much better to do it in Ukraine. Our green energy, it should be a priority, not an energy cloud, built in the 1960s, and on account of which one oligarch is profiting from all of us, I'm talking about Mr. Ahmetov and his partner, President Dustenk, who allowed this criminal scheme of "Rotterdam Plus" to work in Ukraine and so on and so forth. And of course, Ukrainian creative industries, Ukrainian designers -- that's what we can be proud of. And this should be our future economy, which the state should support. And you know that, for example, our light industry, it would be able to handle it, but now it's embroidering international brands. And even this jacket that I came to Parliament today, it was made in Ukraine -- it was made by Ukrainians. But unfortunately, instead of working for our economy, they work for foreign economies because the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainian Parliament, is focused on oligarchs, not on supporting domestic companies that would produce this for Ukrainians to become part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u118	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Lubinian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u119	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Good afternoon, twenty Ukrainian national deputies! Now it's very, you know, it's very positive when they go out to the rostrum and start saying, "We need to change electoral legislation." See: 20 national deputies, 10 majors, 10 lists. Yeah, maybe we should, after all, tell people not to change electoral legislation, but change their attitude towards elections and candidates? Finally, understand that the non-election system elects national MPs, and you, people, vote, monitor the activities of national MPs and make an informed decision in the elections. I'd like to mention as a representative of the Donetsk region. Thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament, on November 9, 2017, we voted in favour of the National Budget of Ukraine and allocated 1.8 billion dollars to support the Water Donbas utility. We've been told that this is going to close the debt on people's wages, that it's going to go to water upgrades. But where did the money go? As a major representing the Volnova region, I don't understand why there's still debt for wages of 2 million dollars left. Why is the water supply of the network’s water infrastructure not being updated? Where did the money come from? I'm talking to the Cabinet of Ministers that came up with this proposal, and I want to hear the answer, why do the debts remain, why don't the highways get updated, and, most importantly, why are the tariffs rising again? We're told that tariffs go up because the potash, think about it, up to 70 percent. For example, the Slovenian area of the Donetsk region, 70 percent of us lose water, are likely to be high tariffs. But instead of channelling these upgrades and having at least 20, 10 percent water loss, this will automatically reduce tariffs, reduce the burden on our people, these costs are unknown where they went. So, if I take this opportunity, I want to go to the head of the Donbas public utility company, give me an answer, please, and there will be a parliamentary appeal, where you've allocated these funds, where you still want to spend the money, and finally, what can we, the people's deputies, do we do to help get the water and water supply tariffs down in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u121	Dear Ukrainian people! I'm talking to you, not my colleagues, because they're just not in the hall, the traditional week, except for the most responsible ones who've already spoken and are about to speak. And they'll talk about no different, but here I fully support my colleague Alexi Musak, but the main thing is for us, the national MPs, who think about their commitments and their performance in front of the electorate. Question number one for me, for this moment, is available medicine. Sadly, they were not available because of acts that did not sign contracts that did not set out their interests. They would put, but not in a corrupt component, but in January, all 83 million bracelets, which the State has counted in the area for medicines available, would go to every person in line today waiting for: compensation for heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and other diseases that unfortunately take thousands of Ukrainians' lives. Let me remind you that since April 2017, the government has engaged in a non-analogue that has never been in our history, the "Available Drugs" program. Last year it cost the budget 700 million dollars, this year a billion. According to the State Department, as a member of the Budget Committee, I have access to some documents, and as of 6 February of this year, the area was used, in a worse case, by 10 percent, at a better rate of 23-37 percent. I don't call good areas in paws just because they're not proud. On the nose is furious, and people stand in queues in pharmacies: bold men, stonemen, Churchmen, anyone who is trying to deal with today's disease, which unfortunately they have. The second problem that hurts me, and it hurts everyone, unfortunately, a brave man. Boldness has become, I'm sorry, now known to the whole country and specialty No.14 and periodically cut off heat, unexported, on time, garbage. And, God forbid, there might still be a new problem -- the problem of power failure. Unfortunately, there are a number of officials, heads of state-owned enterprises and private companies who believe they have a reason to keep the 70-million-dollar city out of heat. You have no right. Mr. Kobolev, I'm addressing you, you're getting 2 million dollars of salary and the results of the year, 19 million dollars of bonus said in the press. Not too much? Mr. Bujan Sergey Ivanovich, you are the head of the Czercasioblenergo Pat. You don't have a small salary either. It's not enough for you to put your courage on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u122	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u123	The old company has been robbing smileys for seven years. There is a criminal case, 38 million incriminate for robbery, and brave people suffer. Let's not let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u124	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Jurik. I can't see. Then I invite you to the words of the people's Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u125	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. Dear authorities, honourable deputies! What planet do you live on? To be honest, I was expecting to hear everything, but to hear about something more important today, the number one top-top theme is pension reform, it's medical institutions, medicine, corruption, jobs and everything else, well, frankly, it's strange, because one person just mentioned the pension reform that comes first in sociological research for. problems today in the country. And open lists, do you know where? On the 18th. No one cares. These open lists, the main thing for MPs to work, and how are they chosen? Which one? It doesn't matter, you have to think about sending these deputies here. You remember, in recent years, I remember this very well because I was in this session hall when we were divided into three classes. Remember, the first class, the second and the third. Ukraine has now been divided into two classes: the one who received a big increase in pensions (from 1,000 to 2.5, to 6,000), and all the others who received the taxes and received the zeros in general. I get statistics from the Retirement Fund, and who gets statistics? And he got occupied areas called LNR and DNR. Because if you take the Donetsk Pension Authority, almost 300,000 of them, 250,000 of them are in occupied areas, and Volinska are in occupied areas. The Ternopil region is 12,000, which has received more than 12,000, 300 and 12,000. Do you know what you need to talk about? And those pensioners who come to Mariupol, in Mariupoli, you can't rent an apartment when they get their pension. They get huge pensions here, they go to LNR, they go to DNR, they get a pension from separatists. I'll tell you one thing. A letter from a woman in the Borispil district. "I'm passing on a question from an old woman. Why did the state give me and millions like me who had collected their grandchildren and children for war and for their money dressed them in the first days of the war, and to those who called Putin on Ukraine, the pension was raised by 3-6 thousand dollars?" This is a question from the people who send to fight there. These billions went there and went there every time, that's what we need to talk about. What are you talking about? These people who have been chosen here must be reduced to 150 people, MPs who will work, regardless. You see, the people you choose and where you send them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Galasuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u127	Dear Ukrainians, dear lady presiding, dear fellow national MPs! Recently, Ambassador Hugo Mingarelli of the European Union has allowed himself to criticize the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". He did it in the public west. We believe that this is totally unacceptable from a diplomatic point of view or in terms of common sense and Ukraine's national economic interests. You'll recall how Euroburies criticised the initiative of the Radical Party and Parliament team, which adopted a 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine. There's been a lot of criticism. I want to report today on the first effects of a moratorium on the export of roundwood. Tax revenues have increased by half a billion dollars — salaries, pensions, social assistance to Ukrainians. Capital investment in the field has increased more than twice as much as 2 billion dollars into the woodworking sector. This means creating tens of thousands of new jobs for Ukrainians in Ukraine so that they do not have to flee to Poland or to other countries to disbelieve abroad, to destroy their families to earn a few hundred euros to survive. Unreduced exports increased by 5 billion dollars in land, thus completely disrupting the reduction in raw exports. This is an example of a pro - Ukrainian, industrial, economic policy that calls for the restoration of our economy and the debasing needle of dependence, on the loans of the IMF, the European Union, and other external entities. Whether another legislative initiative has also been implemented in Parliament with Oleg Lášk, with the same mind, supported by all the factions and groups of parliament, to increase the three-point shift into metal scrap. Thanks to this metallurgical law, several tens of thousands of Ukrainians have kept their jobs. We didn't let them steal jobs abroad. They've saved $1.5 billion in foreign exchange, because without that bracelet, it would have fallen dramatically, and prices have gone up dramatically. A 27 - percent increase in wages in metallurgical factories. And if they didn't have that raw material, they would cut people down, not what raised the wages. Today's the third major initiative we've launched in Parliament: "Buy Ukrainian wages." This is an advantage for government purchases of Ukrainian products. We need to learn in the United States, do what they've done since 1933 when the Buy American Act was passed. We're going to create hundreds of thousands of jobs in Ukraine, we're going to raise wages, we're going to give the Ukrainians a pension to raise income faster than inflation increases, and then no one from abroad is going to tell us how to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u128	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the national deputy, Jarinich, who was given the word of the national MP, Musak. Jarinich, yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u129	JarinichCostantin, 99th constituency. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! As a representative of the Kropiwnitsky community in Parliament at the request of our veteran organizations from this rostrum, I would like to contact our government and the Ministry of Social Policy, including by requesting that we urgently address the issue of the recalculation of pensions to former military and law enforcement officials. I draw your attention to the fact that article 63 of the Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons has clearly established that the recalculation of pensions to Internal Affairs Officials is done taking into account the types of financial security established by law for police. This is how the law is established today. All pensioners appointed under this law are recalculated. The most recent census was made in the early part of 2012. Finally, Cabinet of Ministers decree No. 704 of August 30th, 17th, approved the new military salaries of members of the military, the sergeant and the officer's warehouse, which was scheduled to be operational as of January 1, 2018. However, literally at the end of last year, the government decided to postpone the validity of the decree, which effectively stopped the complete process of recalculation of pensions for one year. In addition, I note that the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Retirement of Pensions of October 3, 17th, No. 2148, of the Cabinet of Ministers was commissioned to prepare and submit a bill by November 1st last year to the Supreme Council on the calculation of the pensions of military personnel. It's February 10th. And all we still hear is that the bill is on agreement and work. So I urge the government to finally submit this bill to the National Deputies, to ensure the immediate take-up of Decision No. 704 of the Ministers and to carry out a recalculation of pensions. And I am also addressing the Prime Minister separately on behalf of tens of thousands of young doctors. I ask the head of the government to take under personal control the unacceptable situation of gross violation of their constitutional rights. On December 6, 2016, the Supreme Council passed Law 1662-8, according to which graduates of higher medical institutions are free to choose their jobs. To this day, however, the MOH has failed to bring its legal acts into line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u130	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u131	in accordance with the law of government decree. As a result, young doctors are forced to defend their rights in court. I'm asking the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u132	Thank you. We've got two shows left. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka. He was given the word of the national MP, Parasius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u133	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, honourable Members, I want to say today to those MPs, representatives of the authorities that are here, and also to Mr. Dustenk some unpleasant things. But I ask you to suffer, to listen and not pretend that you don't hear people, those multi-million-dollar protests against the Dusty regime that's been going on for over four months. I'd like to say from a high rostrum that you actually hear the demands of people who adopted a resolution last Sunday. And I want you to hear exactly what people said at the rally. First. Peter the Moldovan and Jurko Seychelles are actually not just stealing money or organizing this process or "breathing" this process, but they're stealing most of the stuff from us -- it's our belief in the opportunity to live a decent life in our own Ukraine. The other one. We must admit that all of us have been deceived, that no one has been punished for crimes against Maidan, that the corruption schemes for the government of Dustenka have grown to those unprecedented proportions that we have not seen even under the Yanukovic regime. And the Ukrainians, most importantly, are already on the verge or beyond survival. Third. President Poshenko has completely usurped power, is controlled by Parliament, Kabmin, courts, local administrations, SBA, National Bank, and worse still almost all of them have television channels. He became not a guarantor of the Constitution, but a guarantor of the increase of wealth for himself and his environment, and for his oligarch friends. Four. The dust is now a kind of log on the way to real change. He got into the President's chair and is going to sit in it for at least six years, including planning to fake the next presidential election. So today sending him away is no longer a simple, you know, idea or thought. This is, in fact, the direct civic responsibility of most Ukrainians, this is a direct duty to our future generation of Ukraine, as well as to those who died for it both in Maidan and in the east. If we don't change the Dusty regime, we risk losing not only statehood, but falling into the ruins, into chaos, falling into the rapid collapse of the economy, and failing, and getting what's worst, defeat in front of the aggressor. The Constitution today allows Mr. Dustenk to resign voluntarily and voluntarily clear the way for the President's presidential election due to the full renewal of power. Therefore, our main requirement today is the President's voluntary resignation from office. Dust from the office of President of Ukraine. And on February 18th, together with Ukrainians, thousands of Ukrainians, we will go to March for the Future in all the Ukrainian district centers in Kiev. Meet me at Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk Park. And let's make it clear that this authority is to stop and give it a chance to stop this violence against the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u134	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Yegor Sobolev. He was given the word of a national MP, Derevyanco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u135	I'd like to draw attention to those who are now behind bars. And I thought that this week, every day, there was a trial of volunteers. Right now, several national deputies returned from the Shevchenkow Court, where there was another trial of volunteers. You and I don't know about the trial of top-corruptioners, we don't know about the trial of those who gave up Ukraine Putin, you and I don't know about the trial of those who shot Euromaidan. Those courts that we know of, they don't happen, they don't just happen for a month, they don't just happen for a year, they don't happen all the time. The last thing we know with you is that Roman Nasirov asked him to read a full indictment and, according to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, it could take many, many months. And volunteers, those who saved our independence with you in 2014, are on trial every day. This week, in Mariupola, Judge Yellow Court of Mariupola, Alexei Tomilin on the one hand refused to release Leonidas Litvinenko as a volunteer of the UN Battalion, the invited Bek, who joined us on October 17th last year to parliament with a very simple, good constitutional requirement for the adoption of anti-corruption laws, including the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Today, the Prime Minister spoke of support for this decision, and earlier, representatives of the Petra Prashenko faction, the People's Front, the ruling coalition, said. I don't understand, and then why is Beck still behind bars? I would advise everyone, not just the people's deputies, to be in such courts, it's very important for us to understand what's going on with us in our country with the most important people. If Putin starts a large-scale invasion of Ukraine tomorrow, very few people will, in fact, be ready to fight. It's the Titans, it's the pride of the nation, it's their main defense, and we have to protect everyone. I would like to encourage our international partners. Do not be afraid to protect these people. Fear to protect those who steal from Ukraine, who indignant their citizens, and who throws away those who go beyond the future of this state. I'm sure sooner or later, all volunteers will be released, and participants and repressors will be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u136	Ten seconds. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I must consult with you. We have a formal session until the end of the session, we have 12 minutes, and there is one MP who doesn't sign up, but wants to speak. Can we give the word? Please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u137	Thank you, fellow MPs. There are very few people left here, and I'm among those who haven't been able to sign up, because I was present among other fellow MPs who handed over to the Constitutional Court, and we're just not there for the record period. Considering that there is still time, I thank you for giving me the opportunity, unrecorded, to speak. Thank you. You know, if you think about what jobs we have in Ukraine right now. Doctors of philosophy, historians, economists, lawyers, they're all kind of different. You know, at one point, what brings them all together? What is involved with the professions is a category of people who do not want to do their job, and they all want to run the Ministry of Health as a minister, as a substitute. Today, however, medicine is practiced by all who do not have a professional education. I don't mind being economists and lawyers on the Ministry team, because it takes all sorts of things. But it is necessary that, if we want to count on our ministry to make a breakthrough in change, we have to trust the experts. Well, don't we have in Ukraine people with higher medical education no professionals who will worry about making changes? I'm sure they will. What do we have in the last four years? It's characteristic of any person who runs the ministry, no questions, they're all patriots, I don't doubt it. Ikwitashvili, who became a Ukrainian and became a patriot, now he has not become a patriot again, because he is no longer living in Ukraine, and Mrs. Suprun, who, judging by her performances, is a patriot of Ukraine, but cannot give up a second passport, because the Migration Service has come up with an official answer that she has taken advantage of and has not given up, has not given up citizenship. There is no Presidential decree on the Ukrainian President's website that she was granted citizenship, regardless of the fact that they were given passports under their cameras. What is more, people without education, let's say, the same Mrs. Suprun, who, after graduating from college in 1989, has an appropriate degree, runs the Ministry. What motivation do our young learners today want to live in Ukraine, want to build it, and want to build it according to the world standard of living? In order for such motivation to be, the issue of human rights policy should be aimed at ensuring that Ukrainian citizens born on that land live and want to live and have a chance to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-09-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have finished our work today. Our next plenary meeting will take place on February 27 at 10 a.m. I declare this morning's session closed.
