ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u1	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the registration in the evening session, please. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I want to remind you that we've included two projects in the agenda of the day session for consideration before lunch. One of them was considered, in the composition of the CBC, and the next, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application to the Norwegian Nobel Committee for the nomination of Oleg Sensov for the Nobel Peace Prize (9040). So the afternoon work will begin with this determination. Now, if you'd like all the national deputies to sign up for the evening session, please register. [[16:04:27]] 370 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, colleagues, I want to tell you that in Ukraine, with an official visit, there is a delegation of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Norway led by the head of Parliament and representatives of the three political forces that have arrived in Ukraine. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Welcome to the head of Parliament. My colleagues, I would like to say that during our last visit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have gained great experience in Norway, and we have achieved great cooperation on parliamentary procedures and cooperation in Parliament. And I'm sure our cooperation will continue, and I wish you a fruitful and beautiful stay on Ukrainian soil. Thank you for your support. Welcome back. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, let's move on to the first question of the next agenda: Project Rule 9040. And I'm going to put a motion to the vote first whether they're willing to consider it as a reduced procedure. Therefore, who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:06:08]] For-68 There is a desire for Parliament to consider fully, and we are moving on to the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Norwegian Nobel Committee on the nomination of Oleg Saints for the Nobel Peace Prize (No. 9040). And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Honcharenko Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, as the head of the interfractional merger of Crimea, I have the honour to present to you your consideration a very important decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on our appeal to the Nobel Committee for the handover of Oleg Senzov. on the nomination of Oleg Sentsov, Ukrainian director, Ukrainian human rights fighter, to the Nobel Peace Prize. This decree is prepared by our interfractional association and is signed by many members of the union. We all realize that the fight that Oleg Sunzov is fighting today, this fight for us in Ukraine, this fight for our Ukrainian Crimea. But his work, and his activities, and his life had already crossed even the line. Even the borders of Ukraine have crossed because, in fact, Oleg Sunshine is today fighting for the rights of people all over the world. Today, Oleg of the Shadows claims to be well - known, but so important, human values around the world, because today he is fighting with all his life for human rights, for dictatorship, for the aggressor, for the invader. I want to remind you that since May of this year, Oleg Sunshine has been starving for over a hundred days. Consider this figure: More than a hundred days! We realize that his life is at stake today. And so I think that not only to increase our chances of bringing Oleg home as soon as possible alive and healthy, but also to the fact that Oleg Sunsov really deserves this award and fully meets all the criteria laid down in the Nobel Committee Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is entitled, and I would even say I have to go to the Nobel Committee with the appropriate nomination, with the appropriate proposal. I know that in the end, history will put everything in its place: Putin will get his Nuremberg, and the Shadows will get their Nobel. And I'm very pleased that this actually happened during the presence of the Supreme Council of the Delegation, the Parliamentary Delegation of the Kingdom of Norway, and I think that's a good sign for this decision that we are really doing the right thing. That's why Oleg Sunshine's freedom! Please all support the relevant text of the statement and of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u3	Colleagues! Mr. Alexi, this is a complete procedure, and you will have to answer these questions in the hall. We'll have to! So please return to the rostrum and please record the question to the reporter. Slow down, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u4	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I think, and the question to the reporter, and the question is, not the question, but the support, the support, the support of the bill, the support that a person like the Sun deserves, maybe even more. His suffering, the suffering for all political prisoners, is a great benefit in that he is truly a fighter. And that's why I don't think that's going to be a question, and that's going to be my kind of talk to support that we all get together in the hall and, of course, support it unanimously, independently of factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u5	Thank you. Aleksei Petrovich powder. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers, I don't think there can really be any questions about this. I think the only thing that's going to happen right now is that the whole room has to unite around this vote. We have to show here our completely consolidated and monolithic position, because really Oleg of the Shadows, he is worthy of this reward and this title. Thank you. All I ask is that the deputies come to the Supreme Council Hall and support their vote right here. And thank you all very much for this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u7	Thank you. Next, I invite you to the words of the People’s Deputy Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u8	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a higher legislature, and it's necessary that when decisions are made, they're always considered and there's no change or approach in the next one. What would I like to remind you now? You remember how long we've had statements about the Savechenko Hope. We and our delegation were in Brussels, in the European Parliament, wearing the Will of Hope T-shirts there and all that stuff. So in the end, Ukraine was able to be freed from captivity and what we want our fellow countrymen to be freed from, too. But let's still make informed decisions so that we don't feel ashamed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u9	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u10	Yes, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u11	Thank you. I'd like to remind all of us that we did the right thing fighting for Ukrainian officer Nadia Savchenko. And what she went on to do as a Ukrainian politician here in Ukraine is another story, and it has nothing to do with each other. The other one. I would like to remind you that today, Oleg S. S. is being supported by the whole world: the film academy of the world, artists of different countries, and that is why we cannot stay away. Moreover, if a respected colleague does not know, today the Nobel Peace Prize initiative of Oleg Senzova is already coming from Poland from the Nobel Laureate of Lech Valencia, and this is not just a Ukrainian desire, and it is not just our offer. Indeed, by his struggle he deserves this prize, the highest prize in the struggle for human rights and peace on our planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u12	Thank you. Thank you, reporter. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the People's Deputy, Hanna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u13	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! In fact, today we are considering a very important document, this is the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Norwegian Nobel Committee for the nomination of Oleg Sensov for the Nobel Peace Prize. Today we had a committee meeting where, in particular, Mustafa Jemilev, a lawyer, a dissident, a member of our parliament, and in particular he mentioned his example when he was also presented at the Nobel Peace Prize, as it helped back then. In Soviet times, he was also helped, and in principle, when he declared hunger, he survived. In view of the courageous conduct of Oleg Sensov, who has been unlawfully held in the Russian Federation for four years for his heroic non-violent protest against the illegal occupation by the Russian Federation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol and the separate areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions for the promotion of human rights, for his willingness to sacrifice his life for the freedom of others, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has nominated Oleg Senzov for the Nobel Peace Prize. Oleg Sentsova was illegally arrested by the FSB on May 10, 2014. On August 25, 2015, he was sentenced to 20 years in prison. The indictment was based on the testimony of two detained witnesses. One of them admitted that all the demonstrations were given by FSB employees under physical and moral torture. The torture of the investigating authorities was also claimed by Oleg of the Shadows himself. The international community, through numerous decisions and resolutions of international organisations and their parliamentary assemblies, including the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, has condemned violations of the Russian Federation of Human Rights, politically and nationally motivated persecution and called for the immediate release of all illegally imprisoned persons by the occupying State. In addition, most of the world’s national film academys, as well as public figures, politicians, directors, actors, producers, writers, journalists, and so on, expressed their support for Oleg Sentsov. For the time being, Suntsov, a Ukrainian citizen, is illegally detained in the Russian Federation for a fabricated case. During the entire period of custody, Oleg of the Suns show an example of heroic courage and non-violent resistance against the occupying state. And we also see that its basic requirement of hunger is to release all Ukrainian citizens who are illegally held by the Russian Federation for unfounded and politically motivated charges. Including in our address, we list the names of all illegally held Ukrainian citizens in the territory of the Russian Federation, in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in the temporarily occupied areas of Crimea and in the separate areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Colleagues, based on the fact that Oleg Sonsov has been risking his own life for an entire period of illegal detention, demonstrate the courageous non-violent opposition to the struggle for fundamental rights and human freedoms, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has put forward Oleg Sensov's candidacy for the Nobel Peace Prize. We also ask to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the amendments and recommendations given to us by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. We propose a revised draft decision of the Supreme Council on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Norwegian Nobel Committee for the nomination of Oleg Sensov for the Nobel Peace Prize, taking into account the comments proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Also, colleagues would like to thank all international partners, every deputy who constantly seeks the release of Ukrainian citizens. And also to seek the strength to seek God’s support from Oleg of the Shadow, Baluch, many others who have declared hunger. To say that the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian government, the President, we are all together, Ukrainian citizens with them, we are hurting, we are suffering for them, and we thank them for their courage and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u14	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Perhaps there will be questions for the coconspirator. Please hold the recording. Please invite me to the speech of the People's Deputy Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u15	Dear reporter! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. Please tell me, have you taken into account the timing of the submission? That is, there is a procedure for filing and placing on the Nobel Peace Prize. And there's a very limited time frame for this submission. Is it possible that if we vote today, for example, this decree, for which, I am sure, the entire room will definitely support and vote on what I am asking the national deputies to do, are we going to be able to make the next submission and for the next year to be awarded this prize? Please let me know if you've studied this aspect and that we look serious in time, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u16	Thank you very much for that question. The Nobel Peace Prize winners are being selected in several stages. September is when the Norwegian Nobel Committee prepares to receive nominations. The February is the last deadline for nominations to be considered for the Nobel Peace Prize to be sent to the Norwegian Nobel Committee in Oslo by February of this year. February is a short list of nominees, then the committee appreciates the work of candidates and prepares a short list. Next. March-August is a list of counselors. Yellow is Nobel laureates taken. At the beginning of October, the Nobel Committee selects Nobel Peace Prize winners by a majority of votes, the decision is final and is not to be charged. Then the Nobel Peace Prize winners’ names are announced. December – Nobel laureates receive their prizes, and the Nobel prize ceremony takes place on December 10 in Oslo. Nobel laureates receive Nobel laureates and diplomas and documents that confirm the size of the pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u17	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u18	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I'm asking you to pass on the word to Michael Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u19	Mrs. Anna, I wanted to pay attention to the following. We won't be able to nominate Sunshine on this cadence anymore. The point is that the first week of October will be announced for the 2018 Peace Prize. We can only nominate for 2019, and the applications start with February 1, 2019. But I think this decision needs to be made today, it needs to be voted on, and it needs to be prepared with serious documents so that we can recommend it from February 1st 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. We also discussed the matter during the committee meeting and discussed who might receive, what outstanding events in the world, and the outstanding personalities involved. I think it is very important for Ukraine to make a superusual effort to, first of all, free Ukrainian citizens -- especially those who now, at risk of their lives, declare hunger -- must continue to sound. And the nomination process itself, which Poland has started in particular to support, Ukraine also joins them, is an opportunity to bring international attention to the human rights situation that is in Russia. In particular, call for increased pressure from the international community through various mechanisms, such as sanctions, to ensure that human rights are not overlooked. We see what a difficult situation there is in the Council of Europe, in the Parliamentary Assembly, when they try to bring back a Russian delegation that has not fulfilled any of its obligations. So that's the question that we're also trying to raise in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u21	Thank you. We finished the questions from the National Deputies. And let's move on to the bill. Please record the factions for discussion. People's deputies please sign up. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u22	I'm looking at this pharisaic thing and I'm just squirming. We are discussing the issue of the Sun, the award of the Nobel Prize. It's not there, they're behind, they're deciding where to put the land, where to make money, where to do something else. And you're playing a comedy in front of the people, how you're in pain with the Shadows, and how you really want to solve the problem for them. Rosenblatt laughs, he mentions amber, something else. And all the fans of the Sun. The Pharisees! They threw a man's fate at the altar of politics -- that's what you're doing now. You'd do it instead of a prize because I'm talking to the authorities, all to get the Sun and thousands of people like him out of jail, because their families, their loved ones, their children need their parents, their husbands and their families. It's not like you're playing a comedy that you're going to go to the Nobel Committee, the Shadow Award. In 85, Stus was also awarded the Nobel Prize. How did this end? The murder of Stu in Mordovian camps. I don't think so. Today’s roadside regime is no less bloodthirsty than Communist. I'm afraid your vote won't be an accomplice to the murder of the Shadows. So when you really want to help the Sun. I'm talking to President Prashenko, who's talking about the language, the church, the army. I came to Kiev in the '90s, I was speaking Ukrainian, I was looked at like a foie gras. And Dustenko is speaking Russian today, only in official action -- Ukrainian. For a church in the '90s, in the '95s, me and Mosiyczuk in Sofia Square were beaten with clubs when they buried Patriarch Mastislav. And Dustenko went to the Russian Church and had the status he had. The dean, the deacon, or who? For the army? As Secretary of the RNB, what did Dusty do? The house of Gruszewski was pushed instead of financing an army and money to beat the army into defense. Now we're talking about the sun. Don't fool the people, really fight for the release of the hostages, for the country to be strong, and not for the polytechnological numbers before the elections: it's NATO, it's the EU, it's Sons, it's Tomos. And it's all for the election. And all of these very important things, which are the foundation of Ukrainian statehood, will be forgotten three minutes after the election when the results are announced. The Pharisees!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u23	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, Refat Chubarov of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, more than 70 Crimea political prisoners, most of whom are very brave and decent, most of those who are now there in Crimea behind bars are worthy of the highest, highest level of our respect. By the way, unlike part of the Ukrainian national MPs who refuse to recognize the Crimea occupied by Russia as a occupying country. You know that the health of Vladimir Baluch has deteriorated dramatically in these days. This morning again came to the next family of Crimean Tatars of Arsen and Ayder Bekirov. Thanks to his vote, Oleg S. By supporting the Sun, we see with him the brothers of Abdulai, Uzeir and Timur, Aliyev Muslima, who is now in play and his daughter Alieva Gulsum, who is being persecuted for Ukrainian positions. We see Baluch again, who is on the verge of death, and he is also starving. We see Degermenji Bekir, Zeitulayeva Ruslana, who was sentenced to 15 years in prison. By supporting the sun, we support all other criminals in the Crimea. That is exactly what I signed, one of those who signed this decree and supported it, and Mr. Mustafa Jemiliev supported it. Today, speaking on the committee, he, and that's what Mrs. Hanna Hopko was talking about, he said that when he was nominated in 74th year, he was in prison. And then for a time the attitude of the camp or prison administration was so much more patient. Dear colleagues, although, in fact, part of the Ukrainian people's deputies are not in pain at all, part of the Ukrainian people's deputies who do not recognize Russia as an occupying country and do not recognize Crimea as occupied, they should not be in this room at all, but I ask everyone to unite now, support this decision, and though this would demonstrate support for the tens, tens of political prisoners who are thrown into the occupied Crimea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u25	Thank you. I now invite the deputies to sign up for discussion. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krulka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u26	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, today we are discussing a question that should consolidate this session hall. And it does apply, indeed, to a man who manifests the highest human heroic qualities when in Russian captivity, in Russian prison, fighting for the liberation not of himself but of all the political prisoners who were illegally imprisoned by the Kremlin when he carried out the illegal occupation and annexation of the Crimea and solved the aggressive war in eastern Ukraine by occupying part of our territory in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. And of course, the whole country and all the well-known patriotic people are concerned about Oleg Senzov's health and life, which continues to starve in Russian prison today, losing any other possibility of fighting the Russian occupation regime. What makes this question sound in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is certainly the right thing to do. And we understand very well that making this decision, it probably won't get any closer to freeing Oleg Sunshine. But we from this rostrum must first urge the whole world to be together with Ukraine on the issue of Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine. All methods must be pursued, and efforts by Ukrainian authorities, diplomatic representatives, must be made to pressure the Russian aggressor and to save the lives and health of Ukrainian political prisoners, particularly Oleg Senzov. Does he deserve to win the Nobel Prize for his work? He certainly deserves it, and we, as a parliament, should care just as much as we understand that he is in danger of his health and life, ask him to stop starving and save his life for Ukraine, to fight for our values and to fight against the Russian aggressor. We will vote in favour of this application as the Fatherland faction, and we will support this decision. And at the same time, we call again power instead of empty words, instead of many statements, but still do all the actions that the executive authorities in Ukraine have to do in order for Ukrainian political prisoners to be free and free from Russian occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u27	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u28	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear TV setters! Dear colleagues! The situation with the Sun is another one for the world, now a clear example of Russia's attitude towards rights, laws, people. Imagine, and now it's discussing the whole world that people have given their citizenship in spite of their will. Thus, as before in the Soviet Union, slaves in a village where passports were not available were taken away. So they just said, this is our slave, we give him a passport, and now we're going to judge him by our laws. The situation with the political prisoners is really very violent, and she realized that it was just a pressure mechanism for Ukraine. The Ukrainian side has repeatedly proposed the exchange of "all at all" we really want and fight to get everyone back to Ukraine. Today, a law was passed that would increase social protection for politically repressives, and there should be families of political prisoners. And it's very important for the world to see that. On the day of the opening of the World Cup for football in June, the motorists conducted a flash mob under the Russian embassy. Young motorists taped plaster bones, placed a football table, placed these bones, this artificial childlike soccer game, placed these bones and nails on the field, and invited all the willing players. And we demanded the World Cup fight on the bone. Boycott of the World Championship in a country that unfortunately kills people. Can anyone imagine after the 36th Olympics in Munich, four years later, when Germany has fought against the whole world: against France, against Poland, to have someone run the world championship in Germany? And in Russia they're running, and many of our European partners have come to it, to this World Championship, and it's a very dangerous policy of double standards. And we need to keep stressing our European partners so that they can really protect those European values, human rights, the integrity of borders so that they don't trade their principles. On the one hand, we support Ukraine, and on the other hand, we build Nord Stream. Therefore, the people of Ukraine certainly support this decision regarding the nomination of Oleg Senzov to the Nobel Prize. We also emphasize this in all our public speeches. I was recently on TV NewsOne, and when I said, let's thank the European People's Party that put Oleg S. S. on Sakharov's show, let's support Oleg S. in his fight for Ukraine's rise and applause, you'd see how the "fifth column" noise started. But nothing, everyone's up except one of the participants in this TV show. It's the same here. Thanks to Oleg S. S., his fight for Ukraine. And the glory of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u29	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka. He is given the word by the national MP, Marchenko. General regulation of 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u30	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, the national deputies who are now in the hall. There is no doubt about it, there is no doubt about it, and Freedom will vote in favour of it. But I have a slightly different question that I'd like to raise. You know, it was said that the Russian Federation's FSB put Oleg S. S. out completely absurd, finger-screwed, politically motivated accusations, accusing him of terrorism. And we're talking to the whole world that it's a fake, that Russia doesn't have any law enforcement agencies, that Russia doesn't have any courts, that Russia has no capacity at all to protect itself in a legal way. We're saying it. We demand the return of more than 70 of our political recruits who are now in the territory of the Russian Federation, we are speaking, including from this rostrum and we are just talking about it. But at the same time, the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation sends a letter to Ukraine to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine saying that, for example, the citizen of the Russian Federation, Timur Tumgoev, who is ingusted by the nationality of Ukraine, he is a terrorist and should therefore be extradited to the Russian Federation. And the U.S. Attorney General says, well, look, the FSB wrote that he's a terrorist, so why not turn him in? We've got to turn him in! Let him be in Russia now, there'll be an opportunity in the court to defend himself, maybe prove he's not a terrorist. Well, that's just ridiculous, isn't it? At the same time, we are talking about the Sun, about other unjustly accused political activists, and on the other hand, our national authorities are cooperating with the Russian Federation's penal system, handing over people who have been extradited from Ukraine! That's bullshit! Think about it, distinguished national MPs! This is the case for many of you today, even among you, with criminal cases that have been opened in Russia on charges there, not known about what, terrorism, including! You think about yourself in this situation, although this is certainly the case in all Ukrainians and non-Citizens of Ukraine. Because there are a lot of people out there who are Ukrainians who come here as enemies of the Moscow regime, who want to fight the Moscow regime, they want to get shelter here, they want to fight for us in the end, Russia wants to take them in the same way and destroy them there. Are we going to keep giving these people away? It's just unthinkable! This is where the secondary discussion begins, whether Tumgoev was or was not fighting on the side of Ukraine on Donbassa. There are vast numbers of people who testify to the war, who are the commander of his battalion, who says that he was fighting. The U.S.U. says he didn't fight. But this is not really an important discussion, war or not. I mean, if he wasn't fighting under the U.S.S.P. version, then you can take the blame for the FSB. Well, it's not. Some kind of abnormal position. If you have any questions about him, judge him in Ukraine. There are some questions that would require him to publish America there, some European countries, issue it to civilized countries by extradition if he has any objective questions about it. But giving up a man on political charges in Russia is just inconceivable, it's a national betrayal in fact, what's going on. That's why we have to do something. And "Freedom" requires other patriotic forces, just concerned citizens, who are outraged by this situation: we need to conduct a real investigation into this situation and punish the guilty in this situation. And there is no way to make it impossible for us to do the same in the future. We need to break the extradition treaty with the Russian Federation at all. What extradition to the Russian Federation could this be? It's just unthinkable. If we're conducting extradition there, we're admitting their courts, so we're admitting their FSB, their entire system. And we're just giving people away for slaughter there, so we have to stop it. If it's said that if we cancel the extradition from Russia, we'll have the whole Russian crime coming to us that will know they won't, we'll hear that argument, but it's manipulation. Don't let the Russian crime scene in here, finally enter the visa regime with Moscow, close the border with the aggressor country, don't let them in here -- and we won't have to extradite them if you're afraid they'll come here, and then we won't be able to drive them out of here. So I urge Parliament to create a temporary commission of inquiry on this issue. I call on all the deputies who are patriots to respond to this situation. Because this situation is already an absolutely terrible precedent that cannot be repeated. And to all the Ukrainians who are now members of the Kremlin, I am stressing that it is wrong, in my opinion, to use the term "polite prisoners." Because a political prisoner is when a person sits unjustly in his own country. It's not a political prisoner, it's a hostage, it's a political prisoner, it's actually a prisoner -- that's how you have to deal with it. And including Oleg of the Shadows, and all of our Ukrainians who are sitting there right now, we need to get them out of the criminal system of the Ephesus. But. And there is no way to put anyone there and stop this terrible collaboration, the terrible cooperation with the Moscow penal authorities. That's why I'm calling for it, and we're going to do everything we can to defeat the Moscow Empire and free everyone who's there now, who's currently being wrongly accused, who's currently in captivity, because that's our sacred duty. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u31	So, colleagues, this is the closing act. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. Then there'll be a closing statement, and we'll go to the vote. So I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! "Peter Prashenko's Block," of course, will support the bill in its entirety. I'd like to say a little bit about something else and turn to the faction that the leader was speaking out of this rostrum today, literally a couple of men to me, and tell you what a pharisaic is. You see, pharisaicism is not what it sounded like from this rostrum. Pharisee is what he does. You know, go to the rostrum and tell for Oleg Sunsov, with the whole faction not voting for this issue in the agenda, it's called "Pharisacy," like me. What else is called a Pharisee? As for me, I repeat. The Pharisees are called what he well knows, calling our President's family in this room, that according to the Supreme Council Rules he cannot answer him in this room. And there is no representative of the President in this room who could have answered him right away. That's why I'm going to go out and answer the People's Deputy of Peter Dust. See, when it was said that Dusty always speaks Russian, well, that's not true. Unlike you, he knows many languages. [[B in m in s a l in]] Unlike you, he knows a lot of languages. And what anyone did in the '90s, well, remember what you did in the '90s, when they were walking in militia, they were pushing money, they were pushing cars, they were pushing everything they wanted. Do you understand? Until you've been caught, you'll be told by the militia, and until you're under some criminal responsibility. And when you jumped from there, and you didn't stop there, you went into politics. But think of another fact. The Pharisee is what you are now saying, once again, in the Supreme Council, in the Supreme Council Hall. And so when future President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko began to build this country, you interviewed one of the police departments and told the whole country about the confusing things that you were going to go to, where you were going to go, and what it would be like to do, you know. So please don't touch our President. If you want to say something good, go out and tell his family. If you want to say something bad, think of yourself, turn your whole life upside down, and think about doing it right or wrong. Thank you very much. I think you're going to make some overwhelming conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u33	Thank you. So one more minute is given to Andrew Loz, because there's still time, one minute. Please, Mr. Andrew. And then the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u34	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, this mentions the words of the U.N.R. centurion, the great Ukrainian poet Eugene Malanuk: "Who raped you? Powerless, powerless, drunk, and dumb. The infertile flesh, the poor body, was given to each one. The misery of foreign history and the tears of drunken cobsars is the vastness of the space of the harlots of the Khans and kings." We are now witnessing when our nation, our parliament, are trying to play the Moscow script. Who are we going to fool, ourselves? The pollinator did everything he could to legalize Medvedchuk and, in fact, the Saints and Karpuk and Stas Klich and Kolchenka and other political prisoners could be released in one day: to arrest the godfather Putin and the second Duster of Medvedchuk and to exchange him for our political prisoners. [[Applause]] Not like that. Not like today, when Timura Tumgoyeva, who fought for Ukraine, is betrayed, not even changed, but simply committed to a faithful death. Not like today, when Medvedchuk allows himself to do things that no one in this country is allowed to do -- fly directly to Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u35	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u36	And we see how damp business is, in politics, including in this room, the coordinator of the Moscow agency here is Medvedchuk, whose hands are on the blood of Vasil Stus, who, as Oleg Lazko rightly said, did not receive the Nobel Prize. And the situation that today with the Sun, when those who vote can become accomplices to the Moscow scenario, and kill the Ukrainian director Oleg Sensov. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u37	Thank you. And, colleagues, to those who reach out, I remind you, there's a block of factions, there's a block of MPs, and I have the right to assign only in the sequence in which the recording took place. The guy was next on the show, look at the board. He was next in line. Time was running out, so I gave my word. Justice is the foundation and guarantee of a stable parliament. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The question is symbolic and I ask you to pay attention during the vote and ask the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies to the Hall. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Norwegian Nobel Committee for the nomination of Oleg Sensov for the Nobel Peace Prize (No.9040) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Careful and responsible. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:49:05]] For 245 It's been decided. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day, colleague. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences to Enhance Protection of Owners against Unlawful Action or Inaction of Involuntary Authorities (No.7373). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. We have important bills so that we can go through them, let's do it in a nutshell. [[16:49:49]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sold to Oxana Petrovna. Mrs. Oksana, I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, welcome! And I'm asking you to listen to the contents of Bill 7373, which we've been introducing with a large number of public figures, with a large number of deputies from different factions and groups that are non-fractional. This is a bill that will allow, after its adoption, a whole set of laws to be passed, a large number of promises made by different deputies, at different levels when they went to the elections. It is after the adoption of this bill that the law will begin to work, the law that provides, for example, for five days of the authorizing body to issue a document or to determine the exclusive list of documents that may be required when a person asks for a service. The three things we're proposing in this bill, all three of them are breaking up the circle that exists today in Ukraine -- the circle when a corrupter covers a corrupter and there's no way to break it to those people who want to work and honestly get services from the state. First of all, we're taking administrative responsibility for violations in the area of the issuance of documents. We make this responsibility detailed and that will relate to specific cases, specific violations that are today in the Law on Allowances. Part two. For example, the responsibility is not to enter into the established time series of information into the register or failure in time, or to cancel a permit in the event that it is prohibited. The second thing we do. We refer part of the cases of administrative misconduct of officials to the State Regulatory Service. So we're allowing us to bring the responsibility of officials who are now suddenly violating the law. And the third thing we do. And I'm very grateful to the profile committee for supporting this standard. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u40	We provide an opportunity to file administrative reports on violations not only against officials but also against those who see specific violations. This bill was supported by the government, for which I am very grateful. This bill supports the "Reanimation Package of Reforms" and many other groups of activists. And what's important is that this bill was signed by representatives of all groups and factions and non-factional. That's why I'm asking my colleagues to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u41	Thank you. From the Committee on Law Enforcement, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences to strengthen the protection of operators against unlawful acts or the inaction of arbitrary authorities (registration No. 7373). The bill is aimed at increasing the administrative responsibility of officials of the permissive authorities for violating the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature. To this end, it is particularly suggested that: First. Articles 166-10 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences should be redrafted to clarify the list of violations of the requirements of legislation on the free system in the field of economic activity. The other one. The right to deal with such administrative offences. local courts. Offences provided by articles 166-10 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian National Regulatory Service. Third. Expand the list of persons who are entitled to a protocol on administrative offences provided for in article 166-10 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, such as members of the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, members of the Regional Council of Entrepreneurs in the Autonomous Republic (ARC) of Crimea, areas in Kiev and Sevastopol, representatives of the social union of economic operators and others. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee made some comments, particularly on the need to reconcile it with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, as well as on the list of subjects entitled to assemble. on administrative offences. This can be further developed in the committee for second reading. The committee therefore adopted a decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading, to adopt a bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich of the Radical Party is handing over Mosiychuk Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u44	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, we support this bill in the first reading, but speaking of administrative offenses, it might also be a crime. And here I would like to mention my little Motherland, Poltavian. What's going on? At first, the President's Administration, in an absolutely illegal way, wipes out the legs of legislation and the Constitution, appoints a fitness coach, think about it, a fitness coach from one of the MPs of socialist BPT is assigned to the duty of the city's head. Then the district council without auction, which was to hold the Dergeonador, gives 12 births to an unknown oligarch who, in fact, steals from the community of Poltava. Third. Under my native Lubnas, on the road they wash the sand simply without permission, without extracting anything, covers the manager of the Autodora district of Trojanovski. Perhaps it is time to put an end to this. So when I take this opportunity, I'm talking to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of Security of Ukraine, pay attention to Poltava and Poltavščina, bring these things to the current legislation, the gym trainers should be in the gyms, not in the boards of mayors. We will not allow anyone to falsify the President's election in my native Poltavia. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u45	From the Self-Help faction of Shepherd Taras Timothyovich. He's handing it over to Ostrecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, indeed, a good day for the Ukrainian business, but the second bill is being considered today, which is called on to protect the rights of our entrepreneurs. According to BRDO's experts in 2016, entrepreneurs paid about 28 million dollars to obtain permits, which is an official figure. 28 million dollars. And unofficially, it's almost seven times more. So these are actual beatings and bribes. 193 million dollars were paid by entrepreneurs for obtaining permits as defeats and bribes. Think about that figure. So, unfortunately, since Soviet times, our employers have not understood that business is not working and exists for them, but they are called to work and perform their functions for business. The government has to provide the business with a high-quality service, and officials are just providers of these services. Regrettably, in Ukraine, we have this distorted notion that we have yet to inherit from the Soviet Union that an official defines conditions and sets some barriers to business. In order to eliminate the negative influence and possibilities, this bill has been submitted, detailing the liability of officials for, for example, refusing to accept a permit document, for failing to submit, or for failing to submit, information to a single register, for failure by the administrator of the host body to accept applications for documents. What are the permits? This is a list of 154 documents. I'll just read some of them. It's veterinary certificates, land-based documentation, sanitary epidemiology, it's a permit to start work from firefighters, it's a permit to build, it's an outside commercial, it's a permit to transfer property or rent property. 154 items. And that's why today you and I have to adopt this bill in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u48	We need to adopt this bill in the first reading so that these officials understand that for each of the violations, they will be subject to a separate personalized responsibility. And the flaws mentioned by GNEU, I think we're working on a second reading so that Ukrainian entrepreneurs can work more freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u49	Thank you. Alexander Kugel of the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, how well it all started. Right after Maidan in this room we canceled more than 120 licenses, we cut down three of all licenses. For example, agrarians drank champagne for about a week for cancelling the certification of grain storage sites and each warehouse. But "not long did the music." Just a week later, the ministry restored by order all those permits that we cancelled, not the permits, but the names of any other name. I think we need to work very seriously on the second reading so that every ministry knows. I ask every deputy who works on his committee, please, when you read the law, look at this mandatory new agreement, they want to get out of the Law by licensing, so that they don't execute the terms. They are like rats, as long as the grass does not appear, for such procedures are always corrupt. And so the adoption of this bill "Paternity" will support it, is the first step. But we must put the maximum obstacles on those officials who come not to serve the people of Ukraine but to create new roads for corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u51	Thank you. Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u52	Dear fellow countrymen, an extremely serious bill. I want to thank and bow down to Oksani Petrovny for making her a locomotive that promoted him and lobbyed for him in the Supreme Council. 154 licenses, 154 times, could be horrified by any available service of our entrepreneur. Today we create conditions under this law so that the employer's entrepreneur is protected. Of course we'll all vote, there'll be enough 300 votes. As far as fitness coach is concerned. I understand Radical's got eyes on my gym coach, but I mean he's no fitness coach. This is the man who had two summonses on the Poltava City Council against Mamay, who had a remarkable fight against the icon of political prostitution in Ukraine — the city head of Mamay. Who came to power twice through Greece, through sugar, through the bribe of voters, the former horn, which was now protected by the previous speakers. And what's more, Alexander Shamota voted "Freedom" in full, the Self-Help faction in full stock, the Social-Democratic Party, the faction in our entirety, and other factions, the Red City in full stock. 28 votes, two thirds on the city council. And I'm sure it'll be one of the best mayors in the country. He will show us how to unite the whole city, to achieve results. Then we will unite the country and together we will all find results throughout the country. Poltava will be a locomotive and fairway for real, real reforms, we'll show how to manage, not like Groisman, but how to really run the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u53	Colleagues, discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. And as the national MPs come in, colleagues, attention, we're going to need to have a discussion, because there's an increasing incidence of reporters talking on a completely different subject in the law. And I'm afraid the closer the elections are going to be, the sharper this trend becomes. We're going to have to make a deal with each other, or we're all going back to the legal field and we're talking by law, and I have to stop by the Rules. And we have to have a universal general principle to each other. A discussion of the law provides for a discussion of the law and nothing else. So I urge all factions to this discussion so that we do not abuse this right. And now I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm stressing that the committee's decision is solely on the ground. I'm asking the government to return to the hall. The bill is reformative and progressive, and I am confident that there will be a consolidated position on its support. It is important that all take their positions. So are we ready to go, colleagues? And I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Protection of Management Subjects against Unlawful Action or the Inaction of Permitted Authorities (No. 7373) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote, colleagues, and I ask you to support this as a basis. Vote, support! Vote, fellows! [[17:06:00]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, before I go to the next draft of the law, I want to make a message. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received an application from the Attorney General of Ukraine to give Parliament consent to the criminal responsibility of the national deputies: Alexander Vilkul, Sergey Dunaev and Dmitr Kolesnikov. I am submitting the documents immediately to the Committee on Rules of Procedure. I am convinced that we must support the submission of the Attorney General's Office with our votes. My position remains unchanged: if a national MP is not guilty, he will be able, like any citizen, to prove his innocence in court. Now I'm reporting that I'm sending all submissions to the regulatory committee immediately. So let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and ensuring the proper conduct of judicial and expert activities (No. 8336). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Support us to pass more laws today. Please vote for the cut, please support. Vote. [[17:07:31]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich. You're like the author, and then you're from the Palamarchuk Committee, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u54	Honorable National MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! Last year, when we adopted new procedural codes, unfortunately, we accepted them very quickly, and some amendments were made that are currently hampering effective work in the law enforcement system. It is for the removal of these amendments that Bill 8336 of my authorship is oriented. What is the point of this law? The point is that after the adoption of rights to procedural codes, every expert is now being conducted through a decision of an investigator, agreed with the prosecutor, and approved by a court decision. What does this lead to? This leads to, for example, a murder, there are branches, there is blood, there are fingerprints. Earlier on the same day, a few hours later, after examining the crime scene, he made an expert decision. And the expert came up immediately for an expertise, and by the next day, he could have known if it was the fingerprints of whoever was in the database, from where the locks were, from where the weapons were, and the crime was revealed faster. Today, after these rights, unfortunately, they have to spend time on the court's decision, and the judge can be overwhelmed by work, and we get a decision on the expertise in four or five days. As for weapons experts, blood experts, DNA, and so forth. But I have a question about the expertise of the bodies of people who died on the front, the bodies that killed our fighters, the bodies. (Please be another 30 minutes.) This also applies to all victims of violent crimes. People want to bury their loved ones, and before that, the expert could do an expertise in one day, now because of the court, it stretches for weeks, people cry and say why we, MPs, passed such a wrong law. This law I propose to adopt in the first reading, I propose voting for all factions, and opposition, and coalitions, and non-fractional deputies, it is necessary for the country. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u55	Thank you, Your Honor, for informing me of your bill. And to the word, the head is invited to the report. Mr. Palamarczuk, representative of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Mr. Mikola, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u56	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement examined the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to strengthen the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and to ensure that judicial and expert activities are properly carried out (registration No. 8336). The bill proposes to establish criminal responsibility for interfering with the activities of the judicial expert with the aim of preventing them from carrying out judicial and expert activities. And responsibility for the deliberate destruction or damage of property belonging to a judicial expert. The amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code provide for the possibility of conducting an examination of an expert only at the stage of judicial review, as well as the possibility for the investigating prosecutor to obtain a written explanation of the expert's conclusion. It is possible for the parties to criminalize the involvement of experts on their own, including on contractual grounds, except on a case-by-case basis. A single national register of forensics and expert studies is being introduced, amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Forensics. The responsibility of the expert for the malicious avoidance of appearances to the judicial authorities, the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, has been reversed. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee noted that some of its positions needed further work. At the same time, in view of the need for and relevance of the project, they decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a first reading basis. Please make up your mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. As long as it's recording, I'll make a brief announcement. Two statements from Ukrainian national deputies came to the fore. The National Deputy Igor Shurma's card of opposition block failed when voting for Bill 7373 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences to strengthen the protection of the owners of illegal activities or the inaction of the authorized authorities. He voted in favour. And so came a statement from the National MP from BPP John Rybak, who voted in favour of Decree 9040 on the award of the Nobel Peace Prize for Oleg Sentsov, and the card did not work. Colleagues, I have announced all the statements made by our honourable deputies, and I now give the floor to the People's Deputy Veliczovich, who represents the position of the People's Front faction of Bill 8336. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u58	Please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u59	Mr. Lapin, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? You know, I want to tell you about a fight that happened recently on the eve of Independence Day. And it's this bill, if we vote for it, that can make sure that there are no more such disgraceful cases in the history of Ukraine. All right, I'll tell you about the fight. Battles of the battalion were killed, which reflected the enemy's attack, and we had four 200s. So, you know, you drove the 200-odd to the police station. And I'll tell you that after he brought them there, there was a very big problem: the first is where on Independence Day to find another judge. There was a second problem: on Independence Day, we had an expert on the weekend. Therefore, respectable colleagues. And you know, this was all going on at 35 degrees in the heat when the parents were waiting for the bodies of their protectors who were protecting us with you, including you. So, in addition to everything that's listed in the bill that's been discussed by both the committee's representatives and the reporter, that's where this disgraceful situation is being corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, we must correct this situation. We do not have to do things that embarrass us all with you. So I urge everyone, please call your colleagues, let them come to the sitting room and vote. We have to deal with this flaw that we've allowed. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u61	Thank you. Please stand for Self-Help to present Ruslan Sidorovich. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u62	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. The bill, of course, needs to be adopted in the first reading, but there are a number of points that are very important. First of all, why are we even considering this bill? It's the result of the weak previous decisions of Parliament, where we've created situations where people of 3, 4, 5, 6 days can't take the dead out of the morgue. When the dead are given away in closed coffins sometimes because the corpses are already decomposed, people know that. This is the first question. So before making any decisions, voting for laws, we need to think very carefully and analyze the consequences for society as a whole. Next. Of course, today’s situation that is being corrected by this bill, when persons suspected of committing deliberate crimes can avoid punishment, is totally unacceptable. At the same time, please tell me, what is the point of not solving the same problem as economic crimes and corruption? Are we writing them indulgences? Where is the question of proportionality, where is the question of logic, where is the question of common sense in the end? Why is the only approach not followed, the principle? It's about expertise. In the course of the Civil Process, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice, gave us the opportunity not only to conduct an expert study but also to carry out judicial decisions. Why, in this case, do we limit it again to the will of the judge and create other places where corruption can arise where people can just without corruption being tortured, wait, get this court decision on the appointment of expertise? That's why the expertise is collapsing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u63	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u64	Why does the expertise go solely to state experts? What kind of a monopoly is this? Those lawyers, those lawyers who have practical experience, well know how these institutions work and how they are guided by the structures under whose roof they are located. Therefore, the bill needs to be adopted in the first reading, but for the second reading it needs a very serious, systematic revision. Otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u65	Please, Mrs. Oksana Korczynska, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u66	Praise Jesus Christ. The adoption of the Criminal Code in this room allowed for a year’s error or amendment, which for several months did not allow us to take, bury the bodies of our heroes. After a few days, God forbid, when our boys died on Saturday, Sunday, they weren't given permission to open up, and our "simikas," our civilian services and the military couldn't hand over our heroes' bodies to their families. I am now addressing you on behalf of all the commanders, on behalf of all the military personnel, the volunteers of the front. We must now vote and correct the mistake that Parliament made a few months ago. We must now correct with you everything that has caused trouble on the front. Praise our heroes on the front! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u67	Thank you. And please, from the Opposition Block, the Pavlov People's Deputy presents his position. Do you have a position to present? Please, Mr. Dudenkov. Dear colleagues, and while Mr. Dudenkov is going to the rostrum, I will also make an announcement. The National MP Lechchenko appealed to the Presidium that his card did not work during the vote of the Nobel Prize Order to Oleg Sencov. He voted in favour of 9040. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u68	Honourable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, are being considered here a new bill that is called upon to remove the year’s error made by the coalition and the factions that voted with it during the conduct of the pseudo-reforms of the queues associated with criminal justice. What was the point of the proposal in this bill? At the time of adoption, all forensic experts involved in criminal conduct must follow the court or tribunal’s agreement. Earlier, when the Criminal Code was adopted, appropriate expertise was accepted by the prosecutor responsible for the prosecution’s initiative or by the defence party, or outside the courts. The relevant judicial expertise was carried out expeditiously. They're talking about what you're going to do, come to the hall, accept this bill. First of all, let's start with the reforms. Don't do anything stupid. That's the first thing you need to do. And you don't have to make this year's mistakes. Because in fact, for six months, problems have been created for many people, for many of the families who have died as a result of a criminal offence because they have not been able to obtain a suitable judicial verdict and carry out a burial. These are the problems that have not caused. surface, unthinkable to the end of the decisions you make, a coalition. With regard to this bill, we will support it when we vote on the first reading. And I also have a personal question for you: why didn't you support Bill 8116 initiated by me and my colleagues at the Opposition Block? Once again, there's political relevance: "And your bills, "The Opposition Block," we don't vote here." It's people's interests first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u69	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u70	Are you interested in people’s interests or political relevance, or who is initiating this bill? That's why, of course, we're going to join the vote as a basis. And at the same time, we're concerned about what's being stored in the above-mentioned expertise to other economic experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Dudenkov. And please now give the floor to the National Deputy Valery Pisarenko, who will present his position on this bill of the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u72	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I just wanted to say that it's very good that we're starting to work on mistakes. For 4 years, reforms have led to the fact that we have a year left to fix the problems that we had. We spoke at the time of the adoption of judicial reform that we should not run and make mistakes, but no one listened. We're fixing it now. That's very good. But as for the positive, there he is, we need to support him. But there are some points that need to be considered very carefully. For example, another state register is being created under Minnesota. Please tell me, how many more corruption schemes will you create under the control of your own ministries? So let's finally look at the efficiency of those government registers and the institutions that you've bred, and then we're going to vote. So about the positive, we have to support it, and about everything else, even the expert board said we need to work on it. So please look at all the other reforms and let us correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u73	Thank you for the position presented. Colleagues, as I understand it, all factions had the opportunity. Yes, I'm sorry, and now from the non-fractional Mr. Levchenko, turn on the microphone, he'll present the position. Colleagues, I very much ask that you return to the session room, and there will be a vote in a minute. Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u74	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, now that there's been a discussion, there's a lot of coalition MPs who've been pushing these, totally wrong standards, when they've illegally adopted changes to the relevant procedural codes, telling us how to fix everything, how many mistakes are made in these codes, how quickly this has been accepted, and how we need to correct it now. Yes, of course, it needs to be corrected. But who will be responsible for the fact that the country is now living more than six months under these totally stupid rules? Now, I'm in court on a regular basis, and I stand up for the community's interests in my district against illegal forgetfulness, and I can say that the new Code of Administrative Justice is so ridiculous that, well, it's hard to compare with anything. It's a totally non-working model. It's an absolutely terrible model. And now most MPs say that everything needs to be corrected. And where was this majority when all of this was pushed? At the time, everyone laughed, said, "Go ahead, don't change, go ahead." You know, we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u75	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u76	You know, you have to finally take responsibility for your own words and take responsibility. And if you say that, to the majority, well, then go to your leaders who made you vote for it, and either change them, or get out of that majority, because you can't do that, and so on, you can't sit on two chairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, as we understand from the discussion, we have a consensus on the need to vote in favour of this bill. I ask you to return to the session room of the people's deputies who are now in the towers. And it's good when you and I work on mistakes, and that's what happens when people work, and it's about correcting them, and it's about correcting them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u78	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And, colleagues, I want to report. I was asked by members of the committee to vote in general. Is this position accepted or not accepted? No, it's not. Of course you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u79	the Committee to make a summary procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u80	So the committee then asks to propose a simplified procedure for the preparation of the second reading. I hope that's it. Here's my right to vote, your right to vote yes or no. So please take up jobs, Mr. Eugene. We're waiting for you, just you. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and ensuring proper judicial and expert activity (number 8336) as a basis, colleagues, on the basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. Please be supportive. [[17:26:45.]] For 246 And now for a reduced procedure of consideration for second reading. So please support the simplified procedure for the second reading. Please vote, please support. Vote 8336, summary procedure. [[17:27:11]] For 190 Sadly, we did not support it. But the bill is based on support. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question is the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Administrative Offences (to reduce mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads by increasing the use of safety belts and motorcycles) (No. 8492). This is an extremely relevant issue for Ukraine today. There are still a number of bills that are being prepared, and this one we can go to. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:28:12]] For-151 151st. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the author of the Ukrainian national deputy, Heratchenko Anton Juriovich. Please, Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u81	Honorable national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people, honourable presiding officer! This bill is very simple. This bill proposes to increase the fine for not wearing seat belts in cars, because people who ride motorcycles don't use motorcycles. This bill is not to increase the budget submission at the expense of fines. This bill is designed to draw the attention of citizens to the need to preserve their lives. Please, everyone who sits in the car needs to get used to it. Passengers have to get used to it. Every biker should wear a school uniform. But when the fine is 51, many forget about it. And even if the driver thinks he's driving the car perfectly, that he's the best, that he knows all the traffic rules, he's not insured from the fact that another driver doesn't know the traffic rules well, he's going to get hit in his car -- and people are going to die or he's going to get big injuries. It is widely known in the world that those using motorcycles and wearing seat belts have a better chance of surviving or getting less trauma during collisions. But when the fine is only 51 dollars, the police simply cannot adequately fine those who violate the law. So I propose to support this law on the basis and, in general, to increase fines. And once again, this is not done to fill the budget. I want you to get into the budget from not wearing school uniforms and wearing seatbelts to be zero bracelets so everyone can get attached and thus save their lives for themselves and for everyone else. Please support both opposition and coalition and all MPs who are non-fractional, this law for the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u82	Thank you. From the committee to Mikola Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u83	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 121 of the Code on Administrative Offences (to reduce mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads by increasing the use of safety belts and motorcycles) (registration No. 8492). The bill is proposed in part five of article 121 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase the liability for violations of the rules on the use of seatbelts and motorcycles by 15 times and to set it at 50 untaxed minimum rates of citizens’ income, i.e. to raise fines from 51 bracelets to 850 dollars. The committee adopted a decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the first reading and on a basis. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u84	Thank you. Please, two in, two in. From the faction of the Opposition Block, Pavlov Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u85	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that unfortunately, we are standing on a punishment-enhancing platform that has a more severe impact on the fact that traffic is essentially everyone else, if not everyone, connected with leaving the scene of an accident. And they leave people to their liberty and to their loyalty to nature, death. And so let's talk about the fact that by cruel punishment we can solve this problem, it's not true. Look at the latest data on the crash, where he's always, always done -- escaped, crashed, killed, escaped. I crashed, even a living man threw and ran away. Because that's what the punishments here were all about, 45,000, 60,000, and everything else. Compared to the practice of the world, I'd like us to go beyond the principle of cruelty, but from the principle of warning, the warning of accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. And welcome to the word from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please state the position of your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think it's obvious to all that there are causes of death on the road. The first is the inadequacy of roads. There are no roads in Europe like that, unless they are on sand dunes somewhere in Africa. So the key is to increase the cost of repairing roads to make sure they don't steal. And those who are better off burying themselves in the pits from which they steal and build their own belongings. The second reason is the irresponsibility and drunkenness of drivers. Last year, three thousand people were killed by drunk drivers. Some have lost their children, parents, grandparents, or grandparents because of the fact that some alkaza has lost her eyes, she is driving because she is in a hurry. A long time ago, when I was young, a friend of mine told me that it would be better to come home five minutes later than to the morgue five minutes earlier. Therefore, it is vital that those who get drunk for driving know for sure that they must have their way into prison alone. So that he doesn't kill anyone, that he doesn't shed tears, and that we don't have death on the road, the more they die than the Russian occupation. And the third. By the way, it's the pedestrian's responsibility. Everyone's talking about drivers that are bad, and let's talk about pedestrians. Jumps out, any goat in an uninhabited place, runs headlong across six lanes, on the Crusades--and the drivers are guilty of not being able to stop. How are you gonna stop her from throwing herself at your bonnet and jumping right under your wheels? Therefore, there must be responsibility for pedestrians, for they are all guilty of driving. Where do the driver go when he pops up in front of the hood, it's a muzzle, and he throws himself right at the hood? So the repairs of roads, the responsibility of drunks, the responsibility of drivers, passengers, and the main ones are quality roads so that people don't curse everything in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u91	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u92	So that people don't curse everything in the world, like going from Santa to the Horn of Curve, to the N-11. My colleague Vadaturski and I were there recently. There's such a hole that Vadatursky with his head, he's lower than me, he was no longer seen with his head, I could see a little more. What did the government do? Instead of adding money, he took 300 million off the road. And there's no road repair. However, the head of the oblovtodor is writing out a bonus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u93	Thank you. From the People's Front, Lapin Igor. Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u94	A notebook.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u95	Yeah, Andrew Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u96	Please hand over Teteruca.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u97	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Indeed, the question that we are discussing right now is extremely important because it is human destiny and human life. And from ancient times, in all societies, human life has been taken extremely seriously, and our nation is not an exception, nor is it an equal state that has established human life as the highest value of our society. But it is very sad to see certain drivers or passengers neglecting basic safety measures and getting into a car, viewing it as part of some entertainment or being completely unserious about personal safety while in a car. And that's why this bill really has to get the attention of each of us, all of us who use cars every day to use those safety belts that are equipped with modern cars. And there is a very important awareness of the personal responsibility not only of the driver but of the passengers, of the fact that they should not ignore the seat belts, not of the silences so that the vehicle’s failure to use seat belts does not deteriorate there, for example, in the mood. So all these moments have to be taken into account by everyone, realizing that your life is at stake, your safety, and during the worst road traffic accident, the injuries can be something that makes your health worse. So when we're in a car, we encourage people to use seat belts, and passengers, and drivers, and not to ignore traffic rules, because it's human life, it's the health of Ukrainian citizens, it's our safety, our society. We vote "yes" and we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u98	Thank you. Now from Fatherland, Rybchin Alexey, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u99	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I'm a co-author of this bill, just like my "Fatherland" colleague, Ivan Krulko. The Fatherland faction will support this bill and call for all to join the vote. But I would like to point out that this bill was initiated by civil society -- carefree boys and girls who see that every day on Ukrainian roads, because people don't dress up, because they don't use deafness, because they don't wear helmets, a lot of Ukrainians die, our friends with you who could work, live, enjoy life. But unfortunately, because the state doesn't regulate this issue sufficiently, we have a lot of tragic cases. Now our fine is 51 bracelets. If we increase it to 750 dollars, I looked at the stories that were made by journalists from different TV channels in support of this bill and asked the Ukrainians: would you get attached if the fine was increased? The Ukrainians said yes. I call for support for this bill, including because according to the World Health Organization, safety belts could save 50 percent of fatalities and protect victims from serious injuries. A similar effect is given by motorcycles, which reduces the risk of death to 40 percent, and severe injuries to about 70 percent. In parliamentary delegations in parliamentary diplomacy, we see in Europe, in the United States, in other countries: the car and the driver will not go if you are not buttoned up. Because they understand, there will be fines and there will be a heavy responsibility. If we integrate into Europe, let's act like Europeans. I hope that the committee headed by Mr. Kožemiakin, which has representatives of all the factions of the coalition and opposition, will fine-tune other bills in order to approach this issue comprehensively both on the road and on other things that are now in need of correction. We vote for this bill, we save the lives of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u100	Thank you. From the Peter Dust Block, Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u101	There is clearly a need to vote in favour of this bill. But I am personally concerned about another question. Twenty-seven years ago, a post-Radian man was driving a car unattended -- of course, it's a big malfunction. If he was fined, what would she pay for? Where will she take the space money to pay such a fine today? So we have to fight for pensions, for wages higher, so that our simple man feels confident, even when he pays for a violation of the law. Next, we have examples of showing, all MPs, politicians getting attached. And last of all, the voters wrote to me, Nana Nastya, by the way, from next door to my village, and she wrote the question, "What was Lazko doing with Vadaturski in the pit?" Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u102	From the Self-Help faction, Didenko, two minutes, yes, two minutes. And then there's Yuri Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I have been professionally involved in road safety for four years. We have a road safety subcommittee. And so I want to say to you that every day we have 12 people dead on the road. Why do they die? 40 percent is speed exceeding, 20 percent is a cross crossing, and 8 percent is a drunk driver. What should we do? Laws are required, yes. This law that we are considering right now must also be for people not to die, but it will not work itself. Who will control the ways of law enforcement? Nobody. The police in charge of road safety today do not have the right vehicles. We don't have road police. So I'd like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to also take Bill 7286 to take a look at it, he adds a driver control element on the road. Also, if we consider an example of airplanes. We're saying everyone's wearing planes. Why don't they put on cars? Because there's no control. We need to get back to road control. The second question. Budget costs. We talked a lot about security, and we're saying, let's save people's lives. But so far, the country has not allocated any money to the safety of road traffic. It's just this Parliament that we have 5 percent of the road fund for road safety. Bureaucratic procedures delay the implementation of these funds. We now have a ruling in the budget committee that will unlock these costs, so I'm asking my colleagues to look at this decision and unlock the funds for automatic fixation, for light on pedestrian crossings, and for a lot of measures, including hospital assembly. And the third. Localization of road safety responsibility. We in the European Union, all countries that are involved in the professional safety of road traffic, are offering to consolidate security measures in individual institutions. This bill we have on the Transport Committee (8216), it needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u104	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u105	and approach road safety in a complex and professional way, because we can speak, a lot of laws are passed, but they won't work. We passed a photofixion bill with you three years ago, but it doesn't work because it doesn't. He's got flaws. So I think that the bill that the police are still preparing is about the allocation of funds. For the first time, citizens feel their time in road safety. The bill states that fines will go to road safety measures. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u106	Thank you! So, colleagues, now one minute is Yuri Lewchenko. In a minute, we'll move on to the vote. I ask all the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, as well as the secretariat of the Supreme Council, to invite all the deputies to the Hall. After a minute of voting. Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u107	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 district, city of Kiev Of course, this is a terrible problem, something needs to be done, and in the first reading we should vote in favour of this bill. But there are a number of major problems associated with this situation. First of all, who's going to put this issue into practice -- the same so-called reformed police that's no different from the Yanukovic police? So she's going to put it into practice? Obviously, it's very good, it's not going to bring these moments into life. Secondly, you're fined for not wearing your seat belt, but you don't raise fines for much bigger road violations. And now they're going to be less than fines for not wearing the seat belt. It's a legal nonsensus that needs to be decided. And thirdly, you continue the destructive practice of attaching the size of a fine to an untaxed minimum. Where did this problem come from? And it turns out that the untaxed minimum doesn't change, and 50 dollars was a long time ago, and now, unfortunately, mostly, well, it's not exactly a big amount, is it? So it's not the tax-free minimum that you have to apply the fines, it's the minimum wage that changes at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u108	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u109	And if you don’t, if you continue to attach fines to an untaxed minimum, it turns out that every time for a certain number of years, the Supreme Council will have to change this rule in order to catch up on inflation, because inflation will cause these fines to become completely uninteresting and will not affect the situation. So stay away from this totally wrong practice of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u110	So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please return from bed, prepare for the vote. As long as everyone enters the hall, I would like to inform you that I have been asked by the Committee, since there is little time left, to postpone by vote the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office Act to be considered today, 7271. Look at the factions, or everyone supports the committee's proposal. It's about securing the activities of a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor. After the vote, I'll put the committee's proposal to a vote. And now we're voting on Law 8492. And please all take part in the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Administrative Offences (for the reduction of mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads by increasing the use of safety belts and motorcycles) (No8492) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote. Please maintain safety on Ukrainian roads. Vote. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:48:09]] For 240 Decision taken. Ask for it in general. Can't we put it all together? No, no. All right, no. Colleagues, next. I want to emphasize, attention! Now I'm putting to the vote a motion to move, to a committee proposal, to move the bill to the table now. 7 The Ukrainian Procurator's Office Act (for the provision of the activities of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office) (7271). So we can move on to his consideration. It is behind a number of laws. To make the transfer in order of the day. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the transposition of draft Law 7271 as proposed by the committee. Please vote and please support. We're voting on the transfer. [[17:49:10]] For 171 Unfortunately, it's too much of a breakup. I can do it again. All right, I'll do it again. I'll bet again. I'm explaining, colleagues, this committee has to explain. This law applies to the fact that it makes them a more independent body under the authority of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And there's one small change in that -- like strengthening anti-corruption bodies. And the committee's asking you to. This is a very small change, and said the committee that all previous consultations had been held. That's why I'm going to put it again, who doesn't understand. Transfer for review now draft Law 7271. Please vote and please support. We're voting for the transfer now. Vote! [[17:50:07]] For-173 173. There's a gap too big. Excuse me. So, colleagues, the next question of the agenda is also a matter for the committee. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Settlement of Holidays for Theatre Workers (No. 8528). Do we go in there or do we go in there? Colleagues, ask for ratings. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. Ten minutes until we're done. I'll put up a rating vote. If we have voices, we'll come in. If we don't have a vote, we're just gonna break a good law. So come on, I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Please participate in the rating vote. Please come into the hall, not go out, but go into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. This law is the social protection of Ukrainian theatre workers. And it would be wrong to put him at risk. So I'm going to propose to the Hall to participate in the rating vote. But please all take part in it. So I'm putting on the rating vote the next day's draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of theatre leave (8528). The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Ratings, vote. [[5:51:55]] For 190 Colleagues, give me one minute Arthur Gerasimov, please explain one minute. Colleagues, stay put. Let us take a responsible approach to this question. Explain, this is not a big waste of money. Please, one minute, Gerasimov. Everyone, please be seated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! This question is in no way affecting the state budget and it only relates to one way in which we, first, keep our nation's elite among the performers that we have opera singers that we have performers in the national ballet, the elite that sings on the international best pitches in La Scala, in the Metropolitan Opera, in Vienna and so on. And the second. How to actually save money from Ukrainian theaters, starting with Lviv and ending with theaters located in eastern Ukraine. This is a matter of great importance, and we have been approached by the leaders of many Ukrainian theaters from Kharkiv to Lviv. Therefore, the request to unite and support this bill is based today, I emphasize, on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u112	So, colleagues, I'm re-voting. And I'd like everyone to participate. So I am conducting a rating vote on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of theatre leave (No. 8528). Please take part in the vote and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[17:53:45]] For 211 211. I think it's risky. It's risky, colleagues. It's risky, colleagues, I'm sorry. I now invite you to the announcement of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have had a very effective day today, and dozens of important bills have been voted out. At the same time, several more announcements were made by colleagues who did not have a ballot. And in particular, National Deputy Yegor Sobolev asks that his statement be read out that his card did not work when voting on an important anti-corruption bill on transparency in extractive industries (6229), as well as during the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the enforcement of the rights of members of criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of pre-trial investigations. And Yegor asks that his votes be taken into account. And there was also a statement by the People's Deputy Parasuc that his card did not work during the same vote in favour of Bill 6229 concerning transparency in mining. And all we can say is that the session hall and all the factions have combined this important bill on transparency in licensing. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-18-m1.u114	Thank you, colleagues. We've had a positive day today, we've had eleven positive decisions, among them the approval of the agenda of the session, and a change to the CEC Law, which gives us the opportunity and the way to update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission on Thursday. But now is the time set for the work of the Supreme Council, unfortunately, to be completed. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone to the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you.
