ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. I'm asking the people's deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take up your jobs, colleagues, let's go into the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. We'll count every minute then, colleagues. Come into the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration, please also take part in the registration and register for the evening session. Let's register. [[16:05:16]] 357 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, after lunch, we had to move on to the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Ponomarov Alexander Sergiyovich. Yesterday we held a meeting, and now, following this meeting, I invite you to speak with the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, and Yuri Vitaliovich, I invite you to the rostrum, five minutes to perform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, as you may know, as the Attorney-General of Ukraine, I have been presented with a motion to remove the parliamentary integrity, with your consent, of the four national deputies. Regrettably, I must say that all these submissions cannot now be considered because all the requirements of the Rules Act have been undermined in the consideration of the matter and in fact the lack of consideration of the matter. Regrettably, the regulatory committee of the Supreme Council, which is obliged to consider the appearance of the Attorney General in his presence, met separately and returned the documents of the Attorney General through the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because they did not understand what they had received. This is a gross violation of the Rules and Rules of Procedure Act. I regard this as an obvious unwillingness to pass on the consideration of my application to the session room. Neither the law nor the internal regulations allow the regulatory committee to return the application of the Attorney General except for two cases established by law. The first is if submission does not meet the requirements of Article 218 of the Rules, and this is set up at a meeting of the Committee at the participation of the Attorney General. The second is in the absence of sufficient evidence to support the submission, together with the reasoned conclusion of the committee at the meeting with the participation of the Henprocuror. I wasn't at the committee meeting, and he wasn't on my side on behalf of the People's Deputy Vilkul and the People's Deputy Kolesnikov. However, the committee sent this submission without its actual consideration of my participation, as the law says, to the Head of the Supreme Council for return to the GPA. To date, I have set deadlines for consideration of my application for Mr. Kolesnikov and for Wilcule, who sets up within five days for an introduction. More loyally, five days to get to know, 20 days to consider the committee, and 7 days to consider the Supreme Council, all of these terms are broken. These submissions cannot be considered. Otherwise, they'll be charged in court, and I can't go on that as Attorney General. The presentation concerning the national MP Ponomarov was considered on a committee sent to the Head of the Supreme Council, but with a violation of terms that today makes it impossible to consider in this room as well. I will certainly submit a submission to the four National Deputies mentioned above in a new report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But given that your work term, your esteemed colleagues, reaches the end of summer vacations, I am forced to do so only at the end of August. So now I'm standing in the rostrum calling for an end to the games in the MP's self-defence against the legally defined responsibility. The court and only the court can determine the degree of responsibility of any citizen of Ukraine. And neither the Supreme Council committee nor even, with all due respect, the entire Supreme Council should determine whether or not there has been an offence in one of your colleagues. I find it politically unacceptable to engage in a temporary coalition conspiracy to resolve one matter of one faction by covering members of this faction by not holding a committee meeting. I believe that the political evaluation of the committee’s management and members of the committee should be given to the deputies of the respective factions and their electorates. As Attorney-General, I insist that next time all the names of the deputies of Vilkul, Kolesnikov, Dunaev, Ponomarov be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, using the law in force and treating them as any citizen of Ukraine who is to prove their guilt or innocence in court, in his magnificence of the court. Thank you for your attention. Regrettably, today the possibilities of justice have been halted by the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's not a discussion, I'll say my position as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to point out that we do have an unprecedented case where there were no regulatory committee decisions on three submissions in fact. In fact, there was no decision, it was returned to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and without the presence of the Attorney General. Once again, this calls into question the procedure itself for removing intactities. To my profound conviction, neither the regulatory committee nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine can replace either the law enforcement or the judicial system. We all went to the elections, promising to remove the int touch of the Ukrainian national deputies. As you know, we now have the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that one of the laws amending the Constitution should be put to the vote and decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I look forward to a decision by a committee of profile on this subject so that we can end this, once and for all, in my belief, by bad practice, so that national MPs, like all Ukrainian citizens, are equal before the law, equal before justice. And I understand and understand all the arguments made by the Ukrainian prosecutor Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. We will be waiting for new submissions so that we can go through the whole process fully and be able to take a full look at and make a decision at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll give you a minute to tell Pinzenic. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u4	Paul Pinzenik, acting as chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules. You have the opportunity to speak outside the Rules and as much as you would like to give the floor to the Attorney General with non-regulatory requirements, and I'll have enough minutes to reply. There are two people, let's say, in this plenary room with a similar tendency, a similar tendency to translate from a sick head to a healthy one -- this is the Head of the Supreme Council of Paris and Attorney General Lucenko. If only. If both of these figures -- the great politicians were doing the Rules and their powers, although partly as the Regulatory Committee does -- maybe there would be a little bit more order in the Supreme Council, and in the Attorney General's Office, and in general in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u5	Thank you. I want to remind especially those who applauded that every submission that was in fact I put to the vote in the hall, even when there was a negative conclusion of the committee, because there was my deep belief that each submission should be considered in the hall. Unfortunately, on three occasions we do not have a decision in fact. And so, colleagues, I hope that we will not continue to be witnesses to such attitudes towards the filing of the Attorney General. I hope that in the long run, we will be able to take off the parliamentary immunity as an unnecessary rudimentary for the full responsibilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're waiting, Yuri Vitaliyovich, for new submissions and we're going to be looking at them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, like all previous submissions. Thank you. So I'm taking the question off the table, and we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft currency law. This is the second reading, it does not need a separate procedure, and I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking by Doubenk Mikhal Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Mikhailo. Financial Policy Committee. Ruslan Demchak! Please report. Please, Ruslan Demczak from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is Bill 8152, Currency Act. And our committee has fully worked out this bill, which has been adopted. I'm not going to stop now, we've talked about the substance of this bill over and over again, it completely liberalizes monetary legislation. And today we'd like to go straight to the right. And according to the table text, I think we can start work right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u7	Thank you. So I'm asking the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion. Please, we will also read the corrections that have been rejected. Whoever wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, we're on the move. Goose National Deputy, 7th Amendment. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u9	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I propose that article 1 of the bill be completed after paragraph 6 with the following new paragraphs: "exclusion of unjustified interference by the State and its organs in currency transactions of foreign exchange entities; protection by the State of rights and economic interests of foreign exchange entities in the conduct of such transactions." This amendment is intended to consolidate new principles aimed at reducing the State’s involvement in monetary transactions. This is the purpose that is stated by the authors of the bill when it is introduced and considered. Thank you. Please vote and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u10	Please comment, Mr. Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u11	The committee was not supported by this amendment. An amendment drafted by 6 Mr. Doubenk, it now sounds, this edition, as "the failure of the State's irregular and unjustified intervention in currency transactions; paragraph 2: the risk-orientedness, transparency, adequacy and efficiency of monetary regulation, which is implemented by means of financial stability, economic and social development." If the author points out, we can re-set the number 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u12	Vote, amendment number seven, Your Honor. [[16:19:28]] For-39 Correction not counted. Next up, 16th. A boy. Don't insist. 23rd, Semenha. Please, the microphone. 23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u13	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, one of the key tasks of public policy in monetary regulation as a whole and in particular the bill is to create a legal basis for the gradual liberalisation of all types of capital movements. The fact is that the liberalisation of cross-border capital movements, which stimulates the flow of foreign capital, is helping to accelerate the economic growth of countries. Our right is to introduce the principle of free movement of capital at the legislative level when making monetary transactions within the framework of cross-border transfer of monetary values. This principle will allow the free movement of funds to Ukraine and beyond within the framework of foreign exchange transactions between residents and nonresidents within the area of free trade, which can be implemented by international agreements, which must be committed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u14	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u15	The amendment was rejected because it has a broader concept, including transactions between residents and non-residents within the area of free trade, under international agreements. And here the author proposes to include as an additional explanation, in fact, the final version itself is wider, even beyond those countries that enter the free trade area. If the author points out, we can ask for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u16	Please vote for the 23rd Amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenha. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:21:35]] For-56 We're working on it, reverend. I'm sorry, I missed your 22th amendment. Please, Mr. Gusak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, it is proposed that in Article 2, paragraph 5 be supplemented by "currency values is the national currency of Ukraine (gross), foreign currency and bank metals, cryptographic currency". Indeed, now the cryptocurrency currency, does not matter so much in Ukraine. But I'd like to remind you that we're looking at monetary legislation every 25 years. And let's at least put the notion of "cryptographic currency" into this law so that it doesn't happen that in 10 to 15 years it's going to be a leading accounting tool, and in our legislation there won't even be a mention of it. Please vote and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u18	Thank you. So our esteemed colleague Gusak proposes that this law introduce a progressive standard of cryptocurrency. The committee turned it down. Why did you refuse? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u19	The norm requires a special explanation and position of the National Bank, including the position of international central banks in other countries where cryptocurrency is not recognized as such. And we think that this position should be taken into account by a separate bill. And these bills are just registered, and there are two of them. And this is the subject of our committee's consideration of a separate bill. So I don't think we have to support this right now. And the committee felt the same way, and we didn't support your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u20	Thank you for your clarification. In fact, there are two bills that have been registered that deal with the subject of cryptocurrency. Please be determined in the meantime by the amendment of the 22nd National Deputy Gusak. The committee turned her down. [[16:24:16]] For-67 The correction is being rejected. Next, 49th, Doves. Don't insist. 57th, Martinjak. Don't insist. Debtenko, 75th. Now, I'm coming back. The people's deputies of Semimenach and the Self-Help team insist on 64 amendments. Please, Semensi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u21	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this is part of the bill. So I insist that it be taken into account in general. It refers to the regulation of article 5 of the bill, which actually regulates cases where accounts for farm operations can take place in foreign currency rather than in a bracelet. Among such transactions is the return of investments to a foreign investor after he ceased his business in Ukraine. So far, the Foreign Investment Act guarantees that if the foreign investor ceases its investment activity, the foreign investor will have the right to return his investment, which first includes the amount of the actual contribution, secondly, the proceeds of these investments. But the bill doesn't take these moments into account, and it only allows the foreign currency to be accounted for as part of the return to a foreign investor of income and income, i.e. the calculation of the return transactions is not actually foreseen. Our amendment, if it's settled in full terms, is just going to solve this gap, let's say, in the bill. Please support and comment to the committee on why it was not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u22	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u23	In fact, the final draft of the bill provides for the return of foreign investments in the currency in which they were invested in Ukraine. But it is forbidden to return the income that nonresident investors in Ukraine have earned, that is, the percentages, the commissions, to return them to the currency. They will be indexed in bracelets, and as for their output, it will be a separate object for monetary control. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u24	Thank you. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u25	The committee didn't count. If the author emphasises, please put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u26	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify for 64 amendments. The committee considered it in part, but the authors insist on taking it fully into account. Please make up your mind. [[16:27:00]] For-56 The correction is being rejected. Next. Mr. Dudenkov, don't you insist on 76th, 77th? Thank you for the design. Let's move on. Next amendment 87th. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u27	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, our right is to grant residents the right to trade in foreign exchange values and assets on foreign trading venues of those where the European Union rules allow for similar operations by residents of European Union countries. In fact, you have to admit, colleagues, there is already a de facto investment abroad by Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, outside of the Ukrainian financial system and as a result of an ineffective way for the State. Thus, Ukraine loses the part of the money that could be saved as part of its investment portfolio. Obviously, this also weakens the momentum towards the creation and development of the domestic stock market and as a result of investment companies in Ukraine. That's why we're doing this. Clears these limits. At the same time, we propose to provide a buffer to the National Bank, which, if there is a threat to the stability of the banking and financial system or to Ukraine's overall national security, will determine the list of foreign trading venues, the conduct of operations prohibited for residents of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u28	Please identify 77 amendments. The committee turned her down. [[16:28:36]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 91st, Ostrikak. Please. What's that? No, we've already passed it. 91st. Mrs. Tetjana, you were not in the hall. Please, 91.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, 91st is Martinyuk's amendment, Ostrikova's 94th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u30	I've got glasses to wear, I'm sorry. 94th, Mrs. Ostrkova, your 94th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u31	It is proposed to establish that, in cross-border movements of monetary persons above the equivalent of 10,000 euros, such monetary values are subject to a written declaration by the Central Authority of Executives that implements State tax and customs policy. There is a need to state, this is a valid norm of Article 262 of the Customs Code, and it is therefore proposed that this bill be brought into line with the valid norm of the Customs Code. I don't understand why her committee rejected her, didn't read the Customs Code or what, or don't we respect him?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u32	I'd like you to decide on 94 of the amendment of your esteemed colleague Ostrickov's, and the committee has rejected it, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[16:30:02]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. Next 99th, Rizanenko Paul. Don't insist. Thank you. Next amendment 106. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u33	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, one of the key shortcomings of the bill, which is causing serious comments, is a very wide range of issues, such as how this regulation can be passed on to the level of legal acts of the National Bank. A list of those currency transactions that non-bank financial institutions will carry out on the basis of a license from the National Bank, one such example. There are no more or less clear or clear criteria to be followed by the National Bank when a list of such transactions is approved. Such discretion in the authority of the National Bank poses considerable risks to excessive regulation of monetary and financial markets. So with this right, we suggest that we define exclusively at the legislative level a comprehensive list of those monetary transactions that will be made on the basis of licences. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u34	Colleagues, please identify 106 amendments and the committee has rejected them. [[16:31:22]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. Next 108th People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the amendment also proposes to define clearly which currency transactions may be recognised by the National Bank of Ukraine, which are subject to licensing. In particular, it is suggested that these could be other currency transactions defined by the NBA on the basis of the criteria for the establishment of monetary transactions to be licensed according to this article. At the same time, it's very important that these criteria, this is my next amendment of 110, are defined at the level of the law, and not paid to the regulator for redemption, so that he can, as now, refer to licensing and something not. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u36	Thank you for your clarification. Can we talk about giving an explanation of two amendments and putting them to the vote? Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. Colleagues, 108 amendments are now being voted on by Mrs. Tetjana Ostrickova, and the committee rejected her. Please make up your mind. [[16:32:38]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. 110th. Mrs. Tetjana. Okay, I'll be right back, but Mrs. Tetjana just made a comment on the two amendments. Please identify 110 amendments, the committee rejected them. Mrs. Ostrikova is asking for your support. Appoint your colleagues, please. [[16:33:09]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. At the request of the People's Deputy of Amazanova after the 109th amendment, I give him my word, but this is the amendment of the People's Deputy of Rizanenka, please pay attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u37	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. This amendment is taken into account editorially in principle, we don't deny it as a faction of the People's Front. And we would like to point out that, in order to avoid any misunderstandings in the Parliamentary Assembly Hall, we want to point out that the People's Front is completely targeted, it systematically supports agricultural reform, the reform of a wealthy village, it absolutely supports the increase in the headship of cows and other nutrients. So to this day we're a meaningful faction, which is systemic, we're fighting for both anti-corruption reform and village reform. And that's why I find any allegations of that to be unfounded. So for the village, for the cows, for the other nourishment. I'm not asking for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u38	But in doing so, we are discussing the Currency Act, and cows, pigs, calves have to be bought for bracelets. Okay. Comment, please. We don't have a vote here, it was a simple statement by the People's Front about their constructive position with regard to all the important reform bills and agriculture. This is a wonderful constructive position for which we thank the People's Front faction. Next Amendment 157, Semimenach, please. And there'll be a comment later from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u39	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, one of the biggest critical points in the first reading was the fact that the project lacked any signs or clear criteria for determining the threat to the stability of the banking and financial system of the state, from which Natzbank was to impose monetary restrictions. Unfortunately, the situation has changed slightly before the second reading, so our amendment regulates the conditions to be met by the National Bank of Ukraine prior to the decision to impose restrictive measures. The amendment foresees, firstly, the need to confirm, together with the Financial Stability Council, systemic risks that threaten financial stability. Secondly, a thorough assessment of the expected and actual impact of protection measures on financial stability and economic and social development to choose the most appropriate identified systemic risks and their extent. Please be supportive. We believe that the decisions of the NBA should be based on clear calculations and modelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u40	Please comment, Ruslana. Mr. Ruslan Demchak. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, this is the position that has sparked much discussion on our committee in the working groups. We balanced how this approach would be, the protection measures that the National Bank would take. He's taking it from. For the first time in six months, taking into account the economic situation, the macroeconomic situation that might arise in the state. The next time this procedure is more complicated, and it also includes the approval of the National Bank Board. So it was wrong to say that nothing had changed, that nothing had changed, and that the weight of control was additional.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u42	Thank you for clarifying the committee. Colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 157. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[16:37:04]] For-52 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 161st. I see, next, 160 amendments to the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I actually have a lot of rights, but I don't personally insist on voting them, because I see that no amendment can find its support. But, dear fellows, there are very few of you here, your presence in this room. Now we're looking at a really systemic bill, a bill that can actually really affect the formation of investment attractiveness or the unattractiveness of our business landscape. This bill is intended to provide minimum guarantees to foreign investors, namely, the level of mandatory foreign currency sales that will enter Ukraine. What does that mean? This means that when everything is bad, potentially foreign investors will have certain guarantees that a certain part of their foreign investors. Foreign arrival will not be affected by the state. And this is very important for the continuous pursuit of external economic activity. Everyone please support offer No.160. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u44	Thank you for your constructive position. Colleagues, I ask you to determine for the 160th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov. [[16:38:44]] For-65 Correction not supported. Next up, 161st. People's deputy to Semimenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u45	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, among the restrictive measures currently introduced by the National Bank of Ukraine, which are provided for in the bill, are direct administrative restrictions on the operation of the currency and on the movement of capital. This includes the mandatory sale of a part of the proceeds in a foreign currency. Our amendment narrows the scope of this restrictive action. A year ago, the National Bank demanded the mandatory sale of foreign revenues of 50 percent, before it was 65, before it was 75. So we suggest we stop at 50 percent and finally settle this issue at the legislative level. In addition, we suggest that this requirement should not be extended for the mandatory sale of monetary revenues for an amount that will not exceed 50,000 euros. Because this relatively small amount will hardly affect the overall economic and financial situation, but it will complicate the movement of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u46	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, there are a number of rights that apply specifically to the date of return of the foreign exchange and the mandatory sale. I want to speak from this rostrum. For all entrepreneurs, the law repeals these standards in general. Absolutely cancels. The return on foreign exchange and the obligation to sell the currency I want everyone to hear me, I won't comment any more. And only if there are macroeconomic threats can the National Bank set up protection measures and temporarily introduce such protection measures. The basic law is overruled. So we don't go back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u48	Do you insist on voting? Semenich is clearly insistent on voting. Whoever supports Amendment 161, please vote, the committee has rejected it. Please. [[16:40:52]] For-61 The decision is not made. 173rd, Levechenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u49	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Article 7-1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Bank of Ukraine" sets out a clear list of the powers of the National Bank of Ukraine in the event of signs of a fragile financial situation in the banking system, a significant pressure on Ukraine's balance of payments, a situation that threatens the stability of the State's banking and/or financial system. That's quite enough. You don't have to write in this bill about the currency of such a crazy thesis, deprived of legal certainty, quote: "other measures arising out of article 7-1 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine." What is the legal concept of "other measures that are coming out"? Excuse me, under these four words, you can come up with anything and absolutely allow the National Bank to operate outside the legal field. So I insist that we clear this part and just leave the draft of the National Bank of Ukraine Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u50	Thank you. Amendment 173 was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:42:22]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 176th. Don't insist. 179th. Don't insist. 182nd. He insists on Semenach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u51	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, when the bill was adopted in the first reading, it was stressed that the project needed to define the criteria used by the NBA to establish the existence of a threat to the stability of the banking financial system and a significant pressure on Ukraine's balance of payments. Since the detection of such threats is the only basis for the introduction of restrictive measures by the National Bank. So in the right hand hand hand side, we suggest that these criteria represent a set of quantitative and qualitative characteristics to measure the degree and scale of crises in the monetary and credit sphere. According to the evaluation, it will be those protection measures that are optimal, consistent, proportionate, and adequate to the degree and extent of crisis. Please be supportive. We insist that the definition of these criteria should be defined at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u52	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 182. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:43:50]] For-65 The decision is not taken. 184th. Don't insist. 184th. Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u53	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes to limit the duration of the protection measures imposed in the event of signs of the fragile financial situation of the banking system, the significant pressure on Ukraine's balance of payments, the emergence of circumstances that threaten the stability of the State's banking or financial system. And this is conducive to the investment climate, of course. But at the time, the limitation of such a term creates risks to the financial and economic security of the state. In particular, when protective measures are completed, a threat to the financial and monetary crisis of the State poses a threat to the conservation of unfavourable economic factors. Moreover, the bill is not prohibited, but there is no clear possibility of continuation of measures of protection if adverse economic factors continue. So my amendment is to allow the National Bank to continue to take such measures. So one sentence is, "The cost of protection can be extended by the National Bank of Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u54	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 184. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:45:17]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 188th, Dudenkov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u55	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, regulation 188, in my opinion, is one of the most fundamental rights that have been handed over by the Opposition Block. The point is that the reporter, the committee representative, talked about the temporaryity, but the temporaryity is very relative in this case, because the means of protection, and otherwise called restrictive measures, which will be applied by the National Bank, can be of a continuous nature, of a temporary nature. In fact, this bill is a framework, it's not a currency liberalisation, it's no reform, because it's going to be all about the administrative instruments of monetary regulation compared to the market instruments of the National Bank of Ukraine, and it's going to be able to apply the entire powerful arsenal of administrative regulation on an uninterrupted basis, continuously for six months, to the length of its protection. Therefore, the offer is to support all factions and proposals of 188. Limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u56	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 188, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:46:50]] For-67 The decision is not made. 191st. 192nd. 193. 200th. 201th. 205th. 206th. 207th. 207th Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u57	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear reporter, this is an interesting situation, and I want you to comment. I'll remind you that in November of 17th, we passed a sufficiently progressive Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to remove administrative barriers to export services. I think the bill had number 4496. I refer, by the way, to all the colleagues of the Supreme Council, as we have saved for the adoption of this law. And what we see is that the law stipulated that state control over the return of foreign exchange proceeds is exercised solely in terms of exports of products, and that foreign exchange control requirements are no longer extended to exports of services and intellectual property rights. From the text, at least the one given to us in the tables makes it clear that the committee has turned down this progressive idea that business, experts, foreign partners were welcoming. We therefore propose that we make it clear that the requirements for the limits of the calculation are not extended to exports of intellectual property rights and rights, copyright and adjacent rights, and that monetary controls should only be retained for production. Explain how you are actually making things worse today. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u58	I'm betting on a vote of 207. The committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:48:28]] For-76 The decision is not made. 208th. Don't insist. It's 208.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u59	First, I'll go to the Chief. Please, when you call my amendments, I don’t automatically insist. I insist, if I am present in the hall, I certainly insist. 208 revisions. The point is that the bill proposes to establish and enable the National Bank to set a time limit for export transactions. But there is a need to protect the exporters. It has to be stated that the time limit cannot be less than 90 calendar days. The introduction of a shorter term will significantly reduce the competitive advantage of the residents of exports, of our Ukrainian exports, and may result in a lower volume of foreign exchange. If you don't prescribe in law the minimum allowable of this boundary term, yes, it might be that the National Bank will prescribe 10 days of deadline tomorrow, or at least 2 days of deadline. Well, that's obviously bullshit. So you have to write down a boundary term that you can't go below. We suggest it's 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u60	I'll bet you a vote of 208. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:49:56]] Z-71 The decision is not made. 209, Dove. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, more than a year ago, we passed a mega-progressive law on exports of services. And in particular, this already in force law predicted that the invasion was confirmed by the provision of services. Similarly, we cancelled the mandatory conclusion of written contracts for the export of services. Once again, it is proposed to restore the obligation of writing and does not foresee an invasion as an act of doing the work. I have no claim to the National Bank of Ukraine, but I am convinced that fiscals can manipulate it. That's why I'm not going to put this bill on confirmation, but I would like it eventually read out that after the words "in writing, as well as in electronic form, including an invasion or account, or another document that testifies to the provision of these services," because that's already the valid norm of existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u62	Please, Mr. Ruslan, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u63	I'd like to give you an answer and read again the phrase that the committee has proposed, maybe it will satisfy you. "Other immaterial rights since the date of writing in the form of an act or other document that testifies to their submission," here is meant, including electronic. If that doesn't work, then we'll specify at the end when I read that, including the electronic, electronic form of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u64	Including electronics, we're going to say it under the transcript and we're going to vote that way. 216th. 217th. 216th, this is Dudenkova. How about a 217? 217th, Lavric, please. Turn on Lavrica's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u65	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. So, with Regulation 217, "Unification Self-Help" suggests moving away from today's practice when individual Ministry of Economic Development permits are applied to extend the deadlines. We suggest that these permits, which are usually issued by a very long opaque procedure, be replaced by a simple declaration. Therefore, Self-Help proposes to introduce in part a third of article 13 of the bill and to read: "Residents may acquire the right to continue the established time limits on the basis of the stated declaration." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u66	I'll bet you a vote of 217. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:53:06]] For-54 The decision is not made. 220th. 2240a. 227th. Lavrick. 223, Lavric.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u67	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. The amendment continues essentially the content of the previous rejected amendment, which we have just put to the vote. This is about establishing a very clear and exclusive list of documents that can be installed. the extended term of the foreign exchange declaration. And Self-Help offers only three documents so that Mert doesn't have any additional documents required by our exporters and importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u68	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote 223, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:54:12]] For-59 The decision is not made. 227th. 228th. Please, 227th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, the 227 amendment proposes to determine that if the International Commercial Arbitration Tribunal or the International Arbitration Commission decides to approve or review a resident’s application for repayment of a non-resident debt arising out of non-residential non-residential term, the term established in accordance with this article on the settlement of foreign currency shall be suspended and the penalty for its breach shall not be paid during this period. This amendment is systematically related to my previous amendment, which is included, 222, which is partially counted. Because in the event that these two things are separated, there will be a loss of purpose and no interruption in the settlement period in the event of an application or the International Commercial Arbitral Court. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u70	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 227. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:55:47]] Z-62 The decision is not made. 232, Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u71	228 revisions, Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Edited by 228 "The Self-Help Association" proposes to set a deadline for processing applications and says that this deadline may not be more than 5 days. It is in order to ensure that the relevant authorities do not delay the procedure for issuing permits for the implementation of the deadlines, calculations according to the declarations provided. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u72	I'm betting on a vote of 228, the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:56:44]] For-64 The decision is not made. 233rd. 234th. 236th. 238. 240th. 242nd. 243rd. 247th. 46th, Ostrikova. 47th, Lechchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! I'm calling for amendment 236, which is proposed to supplement the bill with article 13 marked "prim."": " Order of continuation of the established limits for individual external economic operations. " And the amendment proposes a declarative principle for the ZED entity to continue its settlement period. It is also proposed to establish that the resident acquires the right to extend the period of accounting for external economic transactions the day after the 5 working days after the date of the application of the declaration if no decision has been made and a decision has been made to refuse it during that period. This is the principle of the regulator’s silent consent to continue this term. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u74	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 246. The committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:58:27]] For-72 The decision is not made. 247, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u75	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. If this bill is adopted in this way, the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 19 February 1993 on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control. Not all things, not all the legal relations that were governed by these two acts are proposed to be properly regulated in this bill. Therefore, a legislative vacuum will be created in the area of licensing foreign exchange transactions in Ukraine, the exercise of monetary supervision by foreign currency agents, the establishment of liability for foreign exchange violations, and the specificities of the application of influence measures for violations of monetary legislation. So actually, these two acts are proposed to be removed, but not all the things that are prescribed in these acts are proposed to be rewritten in this bill. And as a result, we're going to have a legal chaos and a mess in the right sphere. So, in fact, I propose, in order to avoid such a situation, to leave the specified legal acts valid until the date of entry into force of the law that regulates the relevant legal relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u76	Thank you. I'll bet you 247 votes. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:59:55]] For-73 The decision is not taken. And 248. Turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u77	Thank you. This is my last amendment, and it's essentially from the same question. And I'm, you know, I'm looking at what's going on, and I'm looking at the queue. I'm not surprised anymore, I'm used to acting so absurdly in this room, when an uninteresting legal definition is uninteresting, in fact, the content of laws that are passed, just talking about general things, and then doing pear. Pearce, and the country, the whole country, the 40 millionth country, then live by these laws. I'm telling you again, you're proposing to cancel two legal acts: one is the law, one is the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and you're not suggesting all the things that they were regulating to re-write in this bill. As a result, legal chaos will result in a vacuum in many areas. So this is totally unacceptable, what is now being proposed. So I'm still talking to you again, so consider, this right here is about the same thing, in fact, the question that these acts should work in parts that don't conflict with this new Monetary Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u78	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 248. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[17:01:20]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 255th. 258. 265th. 258, Deputy Ostrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, with amendment 258, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the National Bank, develop and submit to the Supreme Council a bill on the licensing of foreign exchange transactions in Ukraine, the exercise of monetary supervision by foreign exchange agents, the enforcement of monetary legislation and the responsibility for its violations, as well as the specificities of the application of measures of influence for violations of monetary legislation. All these things have to be prescribed in the law and this is our clear position and requirement. Because today it's a ransom to the regulator, and how we have monetary supervision and control today, we see the sum of the funds that come out of Ukraine each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u80	Thank you. I'm betting on the 258. The committee didn't support her. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. And, fellows, I'd like everyone to come into the hall now, and in five minutes, we'll have a vote, and we'll have a few lefties left. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and please inform them that we are moving on to a decision. [[17:02:40]] For-41 So the 58th decision is not made. 60. In the '60s, Lavrick. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u81	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Edit 260, colleagues, would like to give a little explanation. In part, the substance of the amendment is to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the National Bank, to develop and submit bills for Ukraine’s international cooperation in the field of taxation within six months of the date on which the law takes effect. But on the committee, and on the working group, when the bill was being considered, there was another sentence about also drafting legislation on the single declaration of the assets of natural persons. The committee didn't vote, it didn't. I understand there's been a technical error in drawing up tables. So either we're returning this technical error now, or I'm going to ask the secretariat to explain how it happened that we're now in the room with tables other than what was voted on in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u82	Ruslan, very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u83	We're taking this position into account, and I'm going to read it out at the end when we read the transcripts about the conditions for adoption of the bill that we're proposing, and I'm going to propose that we accept it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u84	Thank you. 266th. Don't insist. 268th. Don't insist. 270th. [[B in m in s a l in]] 266th. First Lavrick, then the Fish. Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u85	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Mr. Chairman, it's not about the 266th, it's about the next 260th. I'd like to place number 261 for confirmation. The point of this revision. To determine that the legal and regulatory acts of the National Bank of Ukraine, which introduce the protection measures defined in the first article of this Act, are to be defined by the National Bank of Ukraine as having become invalid. I mean, no matter how much we vote on this law today, no matter how much this law goes on on the committee, until the National Bank recognizes by its normative acts the existing normative acts of Ukraine in such a way that they have become invalid, the rules of this law will not enter into force after monetary liberalisation. There's a slow-motion mine in this right here, so I'm asking you to put the number on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u86	I see. Please, Ruslan Demczak. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u87	Colleagues, please support this amendment, because there is a six-month deadline, and no one limits the National Bank to do it in a timely fashion. This does not mean that they will be termless. It's very important. We can't restrict national banks. Because there may be other macroeconomic challenges that will require, including these influences, to keep that term to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u88	So I'm betting on confirmation of 261. The committee supported it and asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:06:32]] For-68 The decision is not taken. 266th. Fishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The main task of the Monetary Act is that our people, Ukrainians, can count money abroad or receive money, and small and medium-sized businesses and businesses can generally buy equipment, raw materials. And so that there are as few holes and laziers as possible in power today so as not to let them do it. I mean, I think it's very nice that after our first reading, we've achieved in some things that the National Bank Board reports to the National Bank's Council, not the Finstability Council. But we have another question. We believe that the limits should not exceed 6 months once a year. But I'll talk about this later. As far as this is concerned, I believe that the decision on the loss of validity of legal acts should take into account the recommendations of the Board of the National Bank. And I'm going to ask you to put this right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u90	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 266. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:07:57]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 270th. Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! 270 amendment tells us, however, that the weakening that the National Bank will have the right to do in the field of monetary regulation and control will have the right to decide on the loss of validity of its acts only if the Law on International Cooperation in the Field of Taxation becomes effective. What does that mean? It is meant to introduce in the Ukrainian Tax Code the doctrine of taxation of the profits of controlled foreign companies, the steps of BEPS implementation, the introduction of automatic exchange of information between the competent authorities of Ukraine and foreign states. I have a question for you right now, Mr. Reporter. Please tell me why this important bill, which has already been drafted by the Tax Committee in conjunction with the National Bank and other experts in this market, has not been introduced in one package with the currency bill? Because in that case it means that all of these measures will not be able to be implemented until we introduce the BEPS principles into our legislation and automatically exchange them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u92	I'm betting on the vote of 270. Oh, no, before that, Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u93	Mrs. Tetjana, we will not only support your position, the law also requires the introduction of such a package of bills within the next seven months to Parliament. But this is the knowledge of your committee. I have a question more before your committee: why didn't you? And if we put this bill into motion, if we put it on a bill that you may not have finalized or submitted, then it will not take effect at all. So we think we need to do this, we demand that this be done, and we're waiting for these bills in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u94	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 270. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:10:13]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. 274th. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, article 15, paragraph 7, paragraph 7, of the bill proposes to exclude in the Ukrainian Law "On Foreign Economic Activity" article 37 "Special sanctions for violations of this or related laws of Ukraine". The introduction of proposed changes will deprive the DFS and customs of the DFS, other State authorities of the use of foreign economic activity or foreign economic activity in cases of violations of Ukrainian laws, which impose certain prohibitions on restrictions or the order in which foreign economic operations are carried out, as well as in cases in which they carry out activities that may undermine the interests of national economic security. So I propose that this amendment be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u96	Number? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u97	274.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u98	Whoever supports Amendment 274, I ask you to vote. [[17:11:33]] For-73 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, finale 286. 89 more, right? Okay. 86th, please, Semenha. And, colleagues, please invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u99	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the currently existing bill on payment systems and remittances in Ukraine creates unreasonable restrictions for non-residents to open accounts in financial institutions in Ukraine. Because the stated goal of the law is monetary liberalisation and increased investment opportunities, we need to simplify that, because today only non-resident investors can open a currency account. Such a state of affairs has a definite negative impact on the involvement of investments. Therefore, we propose to remove these unjustified restrictions and provide for the right to open accounts in financial institutions in Ukraine for all non-residents. That's what we're proposing. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u100	I'm betting on a vote of 286, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[17:12:46]] For-63 The decision is not made. And a 91st final, Doubenko. Okay. I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u101	279th. I mean, the committee took her in, counted her out. But here among the deputies there are different opinions, clearly everything is written in this direction. So I want to read that in the final version, it's correctly fixed under the stenographer. I'm reading. "After paragraph 3 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 7 of the Final and Transitional Provisions, complete with new paragraphs of the following content: "Part eight to complement new paragraph 8 of the following content: 8: The right to provide to its customers the right to provide a non-cash service and foreign currency sale to their customers." The end of the dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u102	Thank you. I'm going to say this to you during the vote that you put it under the transcript. Fishing, 87th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u103	Respectful colleagues, businesses, and citizens need clear rules and conditions. We have already faced the fact that, according to the National Bank's decisions, he decided to reduce or increase the recapitalisation of small and medium-sized banks. And my colleagues and I registered the law to make it legal. So we suggest that the sanctions on the currency limit be impossible for the National Bank to continue indefinitely. I suggest in my right hand that it be no more than six months once a year. Please place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u104	I'm betting on a vote of 287. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[17:14:38]] For-97 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. Now I'm giving two minutes for the closing statement to the representative of the committee of Ruslan Demchak, and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, two minutes, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for the important and productive discussion and attention to the project, but the project, it's complete. So I'd like to do a stenogram anyway, and taking into account the suggestions that will allow for the improvement of the bill to read, and the adjustments that have to be exactly in the bill in order for it to work. And so, given the outcome of the debate and the vote, I ask you to take the following additions into account in the transcript: In the second part of article 13, in the new edition, read 209 in the second sentence, the words “in writing form of an act” should be replaced by the words “in writing or electronic form of an act of an account (invoys)”. Edit 260 to be taken into account. The number 261 is taken into account. Edited 267 is a complete account. Accordingly, the second and third paragraphs of 279 should read as follows: "In the first sentence of part five, add the words 'financial services' after the words 'financial services' in brackets of this meaning: 'including the provision of services to natural and legal persons from trading in monetary values in cash and cash, while adding monetary values to their accounts." Adopt draft Law No. 8152 on currency submitted by the President of Ukraine, second reading and in general including the transcript. To commission a committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out technical and legal harmonization of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u106	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please take up jobs, leave your beds, and approach your cards directly. Colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft currency law (No. 8152) with the amendments that were made under the transcript by the reporter Ruslan Demczak, as well as the head of the committee of Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, second reading and generally with technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:17:43]] For 184 We didn't make it, 184 colleagues. I'll be back. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Monetary Act (8152). Please, everyone, take your seats and take part in the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Currency Act (8152). Please vote, please support, vote, please support for the return. [[17:18:45.]] For 217 We didn't make it. Please enter, Ruslan, a compromise position for us to get the votes. Please, Demczak and please come into the hall, take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u107	Negotiations were held and I understood how the basic position of some factions in support of the bill would have been if the law had not been taken into account. Please put to the vote the bill in second reading and in general, without taking into account the number 261.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u108	Okay. But we'll go back first, and then I'll make a proposal to the committee. So I would like to vote first in favour of returning to the draft Monetary Act (8152). Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, each voice has a weight, we vote carefully, please vote. [[17:19:46]] For 242 We're back. Now I'm making a formula. I'm voting on the draft currency law (8152), except for the 261, but with those proposals that were tabled under Doubenko and Demczak, except for 261 amendments, without it we're voting on the law. And I'm proposing in the second reading and in general with technical legal remedies. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice, please support, vote, please support. [[17:20:32]] For 204 Colleagues, the only option we have is to re-read the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] You go to the head of the committee, not me, to the head of the committee. So, tell me your position, head of the committee? Head of the committee, come on in, say your position. So, colleagues, I have the option of re-reading. Only I don't understand that we've been talking for an hour and a half and a half without meaning. Okay, in a minute, factions. Speak to Herasimov immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u109	And so will you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to tell you that a decision is being considered and taken in the Hall by law that introduces real monetary liberalisation for Ukrainian citizens. And now I want to tell you what's going on in this room. They try to exclude the position from it in order to abruptly blow the currency’s exchange rate. Why is that necessary, I don't know? I don't know who needs it any worse. So, my fellow Members, I have a big request, this bill does not just need the factions of the "Peter Prashenko Block" or the coalition or other factions, this bill needs Ukrainian citizens who get real monetary liberalisation in this country, which has never been. Therefore, the request to assemble and support this monetary liberalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u110	Thank you. People's Front, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u111	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, Oleg Valeriyovich is honorable, for which you and monetary liberalisation, let us vote in favour of this law and proceed to the consideration of the laws of "foreign children do not exist." Dear friends, we've been fighting here for an hour and a half about nothing. Let's take the law and let's move on, because we have a whole Ukrainian society waiting for us today to decide on the laws of "foreign children don't exist." The People's Front votes and asks for the passage to the following bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u112	Thank you. Debt from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, there is now, without exaggeration, a systematic bill that is actually called upon to either improve investment attractiveness, or leave behind what is the situation. Our position is clear and clear. We don't think it's monetary liberalisation, as if the coalition's representatives spoke like that. Because this bill provides for the possibility of applying all administrative monetary regulation tools by the National Bank of Ukraine on an uninterrupted basis. We have one requirement: make these measures, in fact, temporary, not in words, but in the matter of supporting proposal 188. Under the specified condition, the Opposition Block faction will unanimously support the bill. Thank you. Temporary administrative manual exchange management.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u114	Please, Ostrikak. Then it's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, this law is not about monetary liberalisation, it's called "About currency." And you know why he doesn't have votes now, because he's useless to banks, he's not for bankers, he's waiting for hundreds of thousands of foreign-economic entities, exporters, importers, Ukrainian citizens who do currency transactions, who get tired of paying for education or courses abroad, or paying for some medical service, bank currency control offices shake their soul to count a couple of dollars abroad. This law is needed by entrepreneurs today. That's why Self-Help votes for him. Moreover, this law tells us that certain measures of weakening will only take effect if you and I adopt the steps of BEPS and introduce into the Tax Code market-based mechanisms for controlling capital outflows. The controlled foreign companies and the corresponding transfer pricing report will only provide us with real freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u116	Thank you. Please, 10 seconds, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u117	And so far it's a certain step forward, and that's why we're voting in favour, for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u118	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, go down from heaven to the earth and see the results of the last survey: 70 percent of Ukrainians will not rest anywhere in the summer because they have no money and their children will not rest anywhere. And what Ukrainians need is work and pay. And in order to develop national production, the National Bank has to lower the bill so that commercial banks can borrow cheap loans, invest in their productions, modernize them, reduce energy savings and raise people's wages. You're talking about currency, people don't have one and a half, two thousand dollars of pension for medicine, for a piece of bread, and you're talking about currency. First of all, I'm not interested in what you're doing in the offshore, we're going to bring back everything you're bringing back. First of all, we are interested in the fact that laws work for the development of national production and for the improvement of the welfare of Ukraine. So support our suggestions, and this law will work for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u120	Thank you, colleagues. Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, first of all about so-called currency transactions and the currency exchange rate, you know, if last week there was 6.05. 26.05, and that's 26.50. What kind of currency stability are you going to talk about? But we need to investigate immediately who's profiting from the fact that the national currency jumps 30 to 40 copies a day. And you're talking about stability. And the second. What is the purpose of this law? To walk in parallel with electronic money. Those who dream of legalizing the Bitcoins and who sit by this law. That's why our faction won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u122	Thank you. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u123	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, first of all, we need to restore confidence in the banking system. During four years of government, a dollar devaluation took place in the country. Three bracelets devaluation by 300 percent. What we're saying right now is 40 copies out there, that's not the problem. The main thing after the adoption of this bill is not to raise the dollar by 100, by 200 percent. The will of the people will vote for this law, and will support it, because entrepreneurs need it very much today. People who can't work on this market. And what's important is that the banking system still restores confidence in business and the people of Ukraine still trust banks and don't hide those thousands of dollars or 200. Two thousand dollars, and yet he was giving interest to government banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to the chairman of the National Bank of Jacob Smolia. James Smolius, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u125	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I urge you, as head of the National Bank, to support the draft Monetary and Monetary Act. Now your votes can lead Ukraine to the long-awaited freedom to conduct currency transactions according to European standards. The currency limits will be phased out and eventually the business and population will be able to decide for themselves when and how to conduct monetary transactions. Indeed, this will not happen in one day. We will clear the limits gradually and carefully so that financial stability is not shaken. But the adoption of the law gives green light to lift the most painful restrictions immediately after the law has become effective. For example, when it comes to investing abroad and external economic operations. At the same time, greater freedom in foreign exchange transactions has a different side – a greater vulnerability of the economy to various shocks, which are usually impossible to predict in advance. In case of trouble, capital flees much faster from the country if there is no limit to it. The results are clear: the devaluation of bracelets, the acceleration of inflation, behind them is the economic and financial crisis. It's valuable and it's financial.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u126	Thank you. So now, the chairman of the committee, you're going to tell us what editorial I'm going to put to the vote. And then I'll put it back. Please come into the hall and ask everyone to take up their jobs. Fellows, I'll put you back on the line. If there are no votes, the second reading will be re-voted. Please, Doubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u127	Thank you. Colleagues, a lot of people understand what this is about. And when it comes to correction, people understand because there is a text in front of them. Those who watch TV and listen on the radio do not fully understand what the problem is. I don't want to refer to specific revisions. I want to explain to people what is the point of this discussion in this room. We are living today on a 25-year-old decree, the essence of this temporary decree, which has been adopted temporarily for a year, is that all that is not allowed is forbidden. And under that decree, all the sanctions and normative documents are put in place. You broke one day's contract and no currency came in to ban all external economic activity! That's terrible. What does a poor business do? And now this is about today's bill, and it's even simpler here, we're straight: what's not forbidden is allowed. Everything that's forbidden here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u128	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u129	We can argue about an amendment, we can argue about 6 months, we can argue about 18 months, we can argue about anything. Colleagues, a completely different philosophy. I don't understand how to explain to people and businesses what we're doing for them, this basic bill. Colleagues, I'm asking you to understand everyone. Thank you. We've been on the committee very democratically for two weeks with all of us: business, SBA, Mineconomy, Kabmin, Nazbank, who's not sitting, everyone's heard, everyone's tried to hear and count.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u130	Thank you. Thank you for your emotional and good performance. And, colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'll put it on the way back first, and then I'll re-suppose. Let us unite, fellow workers. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Currency Law (No. 8152). Please vote, please support. Each voice has a weight. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's all vote together, colleagues. [[17:34:03]] For 231 My colleagues, I'll rephrase. So I'm asking everyone to take a seat. Do not go out, but go into the hall. I'm voting on the draft currency law (No. 8152), which reads under Doubenko's and Demczak's transcripts, as well as with 261 exceptions, second reading, and generally with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:34:57]] For 219 219. Colleagues, I'll bet. Colleagues, please calm down in the hall. You either reach an agreement, and we vote. I won't put an infinite number of times. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So I'm betting once again on the return. I'm going to go back to 8152. Please vote and please support. Hell, it's not coming out of the hall! Get back in the hall! In return, 8152 please vote and please support. To return. [[17:36:00]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues. Look at each voice. I put to the vote first the first proposal under the Rules the draft Law on Monetarys (No. 8152) with the rights that Demcak and Doubbenko made under the transcript, without 261 amendments in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. Careful, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. [[17:36:47]] For 228 The law is passed. Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you now. Colleagues, I want to consult with you now, colleagues, the entire hall. Colleagues, I want to consult all the halls. Now we have a block of inclusion of children about parents, and we also have an educational law. Colleagues, please. We're moving to the law, to the draft of the Foreign Children Act. But before that, I have a request, colleagues, to support ratification, short ratification. I'm asking everyone, in Finland. It's money and funding. I very much ask, colleagues, to support us now to consider a draft agreement on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland 0190. It's a big request from the Minister of Education. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support us to look at it now. Please vote, please support. So we can take a brief look at the ratification of the agreement. Please support your colleagues, vote, every vote. Please be supportive. Keep it up, fellows. Support me, Fatherland. [[17:38:22]] For 177 Colleagues, I'm going to put this deal back on the table. Once again, transfer to the present draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland (0190). Please vote for the transfer. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:38:55]] For-188. Come on. Then we go to the next law that we have, 8296: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on creating economic preconditions to strengthen the protection of the right of the child to adequate maintenance (No. 8296). Please. And I'd like to invite you to the presentation. We're in the process, Oleg. I invite you to the address of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, please. Colleagues, we've been waiting all day for questions about the protection of children's rights, all day long. Colleagues, please consult with each other. Colleagues agreed with the committee that the chairman of the committee would give his speech to Oleg Lazko. Please, 3 minutes Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u131	Dear Mr. Head, we don't have to do anything for you. In accordance with the Law on the Rules, two factions have to apply for a recess or a speech, we have exercised our right. And as Head of Parliament, you are obliged to give us the opportunity to make a statement. First. The other one. Andriy Volodymyrovich, we have asked you that we have found that we have not personally voted in favour of the Money Act in the sector of a well-established coalition. In accordance with the Law on the Rules, you are obliged to put to a vote when there is evidence of nonpersonal voting. You ignored our reports, our demands, and you refuse to put to the vote an unconstitutional and illegal law. I'm addressing you in public, and I want millions of Ukrainians to hear our request to you. Don't trade like a gypsy in the sun, the Regulation. We have recorded non-personal voting, meet the requirements of the law. Put the bill to the vote, and don't let the buttonheads vote. I would like to remind you that colleague Leonid Jemetz, author of the Crime Act, is responsible for non-personal voting. Instead of sticking to the Constitution, sticking to the law, you're stretching out the laws that you need in the worst traditions of Yanukovic -- buttoning, justifying it with a revolutionary purpose, and closing your eyes on it. The law is one for all. And you don't have to spin it around, when you like it or don't like it. Follow the requirements of the Law on the Rules, vote on the Currency Act. Let real MPs vote, not buttonheads, pig buttonheads, ungrateful, lying, irresponsible, violating the Constitution and the law. Don't turn a pig into a parliament. We demand a vote on the currency law. And the pigs who button down on this important law, remove your plows from the trough and your ratites from the voting buttons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u132	The name of the Yemeni woman was mentioned, please, for one minute. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Since there is a report that there was a non-personal vote, I would like to remind you that there are already two decisions of the Constitutional Court, this applies to the Language Act and the All-Ukrainian Referendum Act, which are declared unconstitutional because the voting for them has been in a non-personal way by the national MPs, and these laws are not even worth the paper on which it was printed. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am the author of the Law on Criminal Responsibility for Unpersonal Voting, I find this unacceptable to the Ukrainian Parliament. And I would like to take into account that the laws that are passed should then be confirmed by the Constitutional Court as being adopted in a constitutional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u134	Thank you. We continue to consider the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, colleagues, in a minute, factions, let's exchange thoughts. Heads of factions. Please, Arthur Gerasimov. Colleagues, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u135	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First. I would like to congratulate everyone that, without looking at the fierce opposition of those who care about their own interests, and not concerned about the interests of citizens, a bill has been adopted today that really helps entrepreneurs, and I welcome here all the factions that supported them, and the Peter Poshenko Block, and the People's Front, and the People's Will, and Self-Help, and it helps people. And to those to whom, once again, I emphasize, the worst of all, the better, I want to say one simple thing: walk more often on the street, in villages and in small towns, and communicate more often with ordinary Ukrainians, and know their problems. So the decision is made, and I welcome this decision, and I propose that we finally move on to the issue of education and children's issues, because now that the minister of justice is present, it is our responsibility today to adopt these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u136	Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to calm down. I am convinced that we must now do the only right thing, to move on to the next bill. Because there are parents on the balcony who expect us to adopt such a necessary bill and protect our children. [[Applause]] Because there are no other people's children, attention. Forget about the money, forget what you're sharing right now - for the money, for the money. This is all going to go, and the kids, they're staying, and this is the future of our country. So, Mr. Oleg, my friend, go back to your seats and look at the necessary legislative initiatives, because your moms are asking you as much as we are, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u138	Igor Šurma, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u139	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I ask you, those on the left hand side of Parliament who are considered to be a coalition of European values, up there on the mountain, raise your head, there's a video on the balcony that you're violating the Constitution of Ukraine. You're the ones who keep mentioning the Dignity Revolution when people die, and you keep beating the Constitution. You don't have to come here if you're not. You don't need laws. And I'm talking to the Presidium. Andrey Volodymyrovich, and I'm addressing the Presidium. Remember, they took away the MP's immunity from Long. He was taken not for violating the financial rules but for violating the regulations and conducting the city council session. I'll remind you, I told you yesterday, the Investment Act. Buttoned up, it's fixed, 160 million have been allocated. Today, the sample has been buttoned again. These are coalition people, European values. It can't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u140	Now it's Semenha. Then it's easy. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u141	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, buttoning is not acceptable in this regard. It's in this room. I'll say, more than that, all the parties that went to the elections in 2014 talked about the inadmissibility of these things. Especially in the background of January 16. Self-help condemns any non-personal vote in the session room. But let's be honest. Today, the representatives of those factions that today call us to European values represent the factions that are the ones that are the ones that are the most pressing in this session room. And that raises, excuse me, at least a great question about values and true intentions. So, colleagues, be consistent. It is unacceptable to violate the Constitution under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u142	Thank you. The closing act is Oleg Lazko. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Which one of you? That's not how they raised their hands. Sergey Sobolev. In a minute. Now – Easy, then – Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u143	I don't care if I talk to my fellow MPs. The parliamentary majority of the pro-government justifies the violation of the Constitution. I want to talk to the Ukrainians, to all the people who are watching what's going on in Parliament. Dear Ukrainians, please write to me, write to every MP or on the Internet, or on Facebook, or by mail, who can, or do you support what is being pushed in Parliament? Do you support the conduct of Parliament’s leadership, which covers buttoning? Are you prepared to support those who, by buttoning out laws that take your life, take your jobs, take your children’s wages, and your children’s future in your home country? Recall how those in power today branded Yanukovich’s gang for the January 16 laws that voted by hand. I have a question for today's authorities: What makes you different from Janukovich's gang? In the best traditions of the Yanukovitch gang, do you do the same when you need to extend your laws? I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Give your assessment of what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u144	Sergei Sobolev, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u145	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I don't want to talk to anyone but you. This is your mandate, the Head of Parliament, to comply with the Ukrainian Rules, the basic law that regulates Parliament's work, and to put this issue clearly to the vote. If this question is raised by the necessary voices, it becomes legitimate. No, you know how such decisions end in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I think that after today's speeding up the bill of criminal responsibility for non-personal voting, it is necessary. And I think we need to get him into the hall right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u146	So, colleagues, I want to let you know that all day today the children were waiting for the adoption of Law 8296. All day long I tried to work faster to get us to his consideration. We've got 25 minutes left. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Let's unite around this, we're already in the process, let's look at the remedies, and we're going to adopt Law 8296. Come on, colleagues. We'll support the kids. Today we will support the authors of the law. And I now ask the head of the committee of Ivanchuk to proceed to the law enforcement work. Please, out of the way. I'll read the papers. I hope we can be there in 25 minutes. So 1 line. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u147	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I find it absolutely unacceptable to continue to consider any drafts in any way that they can be called, after this room has been openly attacked by the Ukrainian Constitution, after the top MPs of the ruling majority have been buttoned up, just as their colleagues in the Party of the Regions have buttoned up before. You can't just go on and work like it's okay. This is what the Head of the Supreme Council says about supporting Ukrainian children. But you will support Ukrainian children when you adhere to the Constitution, when you live by law and not by understanding. Then you will support the Ukrainian children, the workers - all of you will support the Ukrainians. And while you are living with a violation of the laws even in this Supreme Council, in this room, there may be support for whom. So even though I have a lot of amendments to this bill, because it's very imperfect, I don't think we're going to allow it now just to continue thinking that nothing is going on until the podium is blocked, I'm not going to be on any of my own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u148	Very good. My colleagues, I want to tell you again, we're in the middle of something. I don't have the option of re-voting any law right now. If I'm given facts about non-personal voting, we'll come back to that. When the facts are given. They told me there was a video. Now that we've come to terms with this, I have no choice but to finish this consideration. So that's 2 revisions. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 10th. 11th. 12th. 14th. 17th. 19th. 35th. 36th. What's that? 24th. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u149	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill actually applies to hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions. Because it's not just about protecting children, it's about protecting parents, it's about their grandparents. So I think we have nowhere to go, and we need to study this law very carefully. In particular, the number 24. It refers to matters involving the administrative responsibility of those who avoid parental responsibilities. But our key proposal is not taken into account: to remove the terminology differences in the text of the 184th Code of Administrative Offences. At first glance, it seems that there is a difference between teenage parents, oh, I'm sorry, children and not. But article 6 of the Ukrainian Family Code clearly states that a child is considered to be under 14 years of age, and a minor is considered to be under 14, to 18 years of age. The same is true of the Civil Code. So I'm going to ask you to take our revision completely into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u150	Thank you. Who's in charge of taking 24 into account in full, please vote. [[17:56:21]] For-90 The decision is not made. 35th. Don't insist. 35th, right? 36th. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u151	The Semenha Roman faction of Self - Help. Dear colleagues, I suggest you change your approach to giving your parents a protocol on administrative misconduct. What do we have today? Parents who take responsibility for the improper care of their children need to sign a copy of the protocol for such an arrangement. But practice shows, often in every way possible, such parents avoid receiving or signing a protocol. Then we suggest that we change the approach, and in the event that the violator withdraws from signing the protocol, send him a second copy of such a protocol and copies of the violation material within 24 hours of the recommended letter. Simplifying the procedure of drawing on administrative responsibility will give this law real tools and mechanisms to implement its standards. So please support, it is very important to fill this bill with real mechanisms for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u152	Thirty-six. The committee's dismissed. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:57:41]] For-75 The decision is not made. 22nd, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u153	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. At 22 amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, we discussed this on the committee, agreed on the text and the formulation. Then, in a strange way, maybe again, not in breaking the rules, but technically, this formulation was done somewhere. I insist that part of the sixth article 184 should be supplemented by the addition of the right to leave abroad and to be deprived of the right to operate the means of transport. I realize it's a hard enough sanction, but it will work, to my deep conviction, as preventive, and will mirror sanctions to those who don't pay alimony the same way to those who don't give, so from parents who don't live with a child, the right to see a child, by making decisions of the court or the custody and care bodies. Please give the floor to the minister and to the committee head. We agreed on these texts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u154	Thank you. I'm giving the head of the committee. Please, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, turn on the microphone. Ivanchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u155	Dear Mr. Head! Indeed, we agreed that in line 20 on the introduction of article 184 of the KUPAP in the new edition, but in the final edition of the new article, it is necessary to include the following: "absac 2 parts of article 184 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences: "This entails imposing a fine of 150 to 300 untaxed minimums of citizens' income and the temporary limitation of the parent with whom the child resides in the right to leave Ukraine and restrictions on the right to drive the vehicle, until the decision is reached in full." I read it specifically under the transcript so that these arrangements with Mr. Kuprienk would be in the body of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u156	Thank you. 22nd, do you insist on voting? I bet the vote on Amendment 22, the author insists that it be adopted in full. Who's to say that number 22 is fully accepted, please vote. [[18:00:41]] For-67 The decision is not taken. 45th. 47th. 43rd. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u157	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, I am primarily the Minister of Justice and Head of the Committee calling for a public debate, because it is Parliament, and for that purpose the procedure for second reading for public debates is provided by the Supreme Council Rules. As I repeat, this bill applies to millions of Ukrainian citizens. A specific correction is close to the previous one that I've said, with an exact algorithm for action. If one parent who is attracted to administrative responsibility avoids getting acquainted with the protocol on administrative wrongdoing. I would like to make it clear that not only in the event of a direct refusal, a person who is called upon to sign the protocol, but also in other more common cases that are currently not settled, it is recorded that allows for the further completion of the protocol and to refer it to the court. I'm noting that the law came about because today there are certain rules in place, but they don't work because there is no actual instrumentation and mechanism for their execution, including rules for the drafting of an administrative protocol on offences. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u158	So, the head of the Ivanchuk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u159	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. People's Chamberlain, well, it's ridiculous to even call me and the Minister of Justice to a public discussion after we've all worked out this bill with you for ten hours. Little did I thank you publicly for introducing an alternative bill, which we also included in the second reading phase of this bill. So I think that after so many hours, after so many days that we've worked on this law, we've balanced its final edition. We've found a lot, I think, of things that are us. We couldn't reconcile, we found a consensus, we found a solution, we put it in the body of the law. And now there's only one thing left for us to do -- vote down, reject all ambitions, vote for this bill in an editorial that we've all agreed on together, in a second reading, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u160	So I'm betting on the vote. Roman, what's the readout? 43rd. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[18:03:37]] For-75 45th. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. 51st. Don't insist. 68th. Semenha. Turn on the microphone. 52nd. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u161	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! I also address all Ukrainian citizens. It's probably one of the key lines of this bill. In particular, the amendment refers to the changes proposed in the project regarding the temporary export of a child abroad after the divorce of a parent. The paper proposes that innovations be excluded from the bill, which will allow the parent with whom the child is living by decision of the court, without the consent of the second parent to move the child outside Ukraine, regardless of the parent's debt from alimony payments. Indeed, in Ukraine today, many of these situations are abused and made access difficult by parents through a notary procedure. But if, God forbid, this rule goes through in such a draft law, it will actually allow you to just legalize the export of children that are not seen by parents today. I call on the committee head, by the way, to address the committee head. It's not absurd, it's the procedure of second reading provided for by law. And I want everyone to hear today that this rule will now apply to millions of people who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u162	Please comment, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u163	Dear Lord Chairman, the honourable author of the amendment of the People's Deputy of Semimenach! Your amendment has been taken into account. But you have to be honest. But the committee's proposed editing is much wider. Your editing has been more difficult to deal with than the editor we're proposing. You did not consider the possibility of confirming your child’s place of residence as a guardian and care provider. You didn't foresee a diversified approach to deciding whether to go abroad, depending on the duration of this exit, to one month or more. You didn't foresee the right of a parent who doesn't live with a child and who doesn't have a debt to pay alimony on his own to solve the issue of leaving a child abroad, which I don't think would be conducive to the child's proper protection. The committee’s proposed editorial work, acknowledged by everyone, is much broader in protecting children’s rights, and it is much broader in implementing the idea that you have put in your amendment. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u164	30 seconds, complete. 30 seconds, complete. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u165	I don't know why I should claim to be an author. No matter whose family they stand for, it's important that our Ukrainian children be better off not being speculated that they're not a tool in the relationship between parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-21-m1.u166	Thank you. So I'm putting the vote to 52 people's deputies of Semimenah. The committee counted it in part. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[18:07:29]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. We are looking for the next revision from which we will continue our consideration. 55th, right? I can't see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cooper, 55th, right? So we're going to continue the consideration of draft Law 8296 with 55 amendments. And, colleagues, I want to tell you that today has been an extremely productive and important day. It was very sad that we had ended up in a misunderstanding in the hall. Once again, I can't put the vote to a vote when we get into the bill, but I'm going to study all the documents that I'm going to be given, and I'm going to make a decision on this. I'm a firm opponent in non-personal voting, and I've been confirming this all along. I want to say that I am very sorry that we have not been able to consider laws today to protect the rights of children. Sadly, it was a very difficult day and too difficult and responsible decisions. But what we have entered into Law 8296 means is that we will definitely and without any other options go into its consideration for the next plenary week. So next plenary week, we'll start with three bills to protect children's rights. And I hope all three bills will be passed, I hope you'll be back with us in the hall, and we'll be able to greet the hall again with the adoption of those important laws. We had big ambition plans, we couldn't solve all of them. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
