ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. And, colleagues, there is an order of the day session in front of all of you. We have a chance today to complete the banking business, then we'll have a chance to go through the laws that we insisted on, and 4532, and 8226, 3131, and even those two ratifications that we couldn't consider yesterday. So I have a request to maximize our mobility so that we can go through that plan that we agreed on at the Conciliation Council, which will require immediate support from the first law for a reduced procedure. I know we're not all in favor of a reduced procedure, but we're just not going to be able to pass laws that are important to our committees, and important to the state as ratification, and so I'm going to urge everyone to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Now, if you'd like to prepare for registration, please take your seats and come into the hall. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the Hall and ask the Secretariat to invite all the deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, can we register? Please prepare for registration, please enter the hall. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up, please. [[16:04:31]] 364 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I'm reminding you that we're looking at a block of financial and banking policy right now. Three laws we considered, two were supported, unfortunately the third was rejected, and two laws remain. And I'm asking you now to support the proposal to consider the first of them under a reduced procedure. So, please, I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall and please come into the hall. We are moving on to a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to protect investors from capital market abuse. 6303, and I ask everyone to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. You know, the committee will ask him to return to the committee for further work, but this position for the committee is very important so that they can work on it as quickly as possible and bring it into the hall. And so I'm asking everyone, all the factions, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support keep your colleagues short. Please back up, back up. Please vote. [[16:06:14]] For-93 93 is bad. So, colleagues, once again, I'd like to report the position of the committee. It is very important for the High Council to bring him back to the committee for further work. So the committee is actually proposing to work it out, and it's a shame if we spend an hour on a draft law that we just have to bring back to the committee. This will be unfair, and it will be a waste of time. So, colleagues, take up your jobs, I'll re-apply for a vote and please come into the hall. If not difficult, return to the hall and take part in the vote. The faction heads carry out the mobilization work in a special warehouse. So I'm voting once again on the proposal to review the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to protect investors from capital market abuse (6303) under a reduced procedure. And I'm asking everyone in the room to support this proposal. Please take part in the vote, please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[16:08:08]] For 111 The dynamics are high, the dynamics are positive, we're going to get to 300 votes. [[Applause]] The deputies continue to enter the hall by columns. So, colleagues, I'm asking you very much, I'm going to do it again, the final third time I'm going to do it again. I ask you to call me back, invite the deputies who are in the hall so that we can get a positive vote. One minute, gather the deputies. And now, colleagues, I want to inform you that there is a delegation of the Greek-Ukraine Friendship Group in Ukraine headed by Atanasis Atanasios. Now a foreign delegation is in a diplomatic bed. [[Applause]] Let us welcome our guests and wish them a fruitful visit to our nation. We look forward to supporting Greece in its fight against Russian aggression and look forward to our common solidarity. And now, colleagues, I'm putting in a final sentence of friction so that we can propose a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to protect investors from abuse in capital markets to propose a reduced procedure. This will allow us to quickly move on to other laws that are in order of the day, and that's why it's very important, so it's very important. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote and support everyone. I would like to support the proposal to review draft Law 6303 in a simplified manner. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every vote we vote hard, every vote counts, we vote hard. Please be supportive. Please vote everyone. [[16:10:33]] For-129 Everything has to be fair: the third time was the final time. We're moving on to a full procedure. I will have only a request to all those who speak out as briefly as possible to use their time, and on the Conciliation Council, when you ask me for bills, I will always remind myself of such a vote. So I invite you to report to the head of the subcommittee of Rizanek Pavel Aleksandrovitch. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. National MP Rizanenko, member of the Committee on Finance Policy and Banking, head of the Committee on Securities and Stock Markets. Today, your first reading of the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on investor protection against capital market abuse, number 6303, registered on April 6, 2017. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, at its meeting on 17 April 2018, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Protection of Investors from Market Abuse of Capital, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Rizanenko, Polakov, Demčak, Ivanchuk and Zenzerski. This bill aims to increase the functional and institutional capacity of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, to increase its status as an independent financial regulator. The project is complex and proposes changes to a large number of legislative acts. The main strategic objective of the project was to ensure full membership of the Securities and Stock Markets Commission in the International Securities Commission, so-called IOSCO, and to enable the Commission to become a signatory to the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding, Consultation and Cooperation and Communication of the International Association of Market Regulators (IOSCO). The bill has received numerous substantial, numerous comments and suggestions from the Minfin, the State Regulatory Service, the Ministry of Justice, Nitzbank, the Securities and Stock Markets Commission itself, the Nänder Service, the Gneu and others. Since the relevance of project 6306 is maintained and supported by international organisations with which Ukraine cooperates on issues such as the IMF, the World Bank and EBRD, the United States, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, with a proposal in accordance with paragraph 3 of Part One of the First Article 114 of the Rules of the Russian Federation, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on investor protection against capital market abuse as a result of the first reading to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking for re-reading with a view to taking into account the above observations and suggestions and expert conclusions. I want to point out that the committee already has a working group working on developing a project to make it possible to adopt a quality bill, a law. The Securities Commission also supports the proposal to send the project to the Committee to prepare for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u4	Now it's a little informal. In fact, this bill is a law on regulators. You and I passed a law last year on, a new law on energy regulators, but I'll remind you that apart from energy regulators, we have regulators that deal in securities, and this bill specifically applies to stock market and securities, financial services -- Nazcomfinservices, communications regulator. Well, I'm sure the National Bank is also a regulator for banks. We made changes in 15 to the National Bank legislation, where the institutional capacity of the National Bank was significantly enhanced. Last year we passed the NCRECR, where we made it institutionally capable, but three other regulators are waiting for their time to change legislation to give them independence and institutional capacity. But separately from the regulator, for example, the energy bill on the regulator and on the stock market also deals with the international issue. It's not international theoretical cooperation, it's practical. What is a stock market, a trade in securities. Markets are global today. The challenges facing the market and regulator are also global. The violations that are taking place in these markets are cross-border, international, global. Today, however, our regulator is unable to exchange information with other regulators around the world, with the same U.S. ASS, until it meets the requirements of IOSCO. This bill gives the regulator the ability and deals with all these issues so that Ukraine can join the IOSCO, sign the memorandum. And we were essentially integrated from a regulatory point of view into the global capital market. It's so brief in the essence of the bill. I understand he's complicated, he's important. And that's why they worked on him for so long. And that's why the committee agreed to deal with all the comments and suggestions that came forward as market participants, such as Kabminu, Minfin, all the interested persons, agreed that he, the bill, should be sent for re-reading to take account of the law immediately, not to amend all these important comments. Requesting support for the decision to send the bill to the committee for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u5	Thank you. Please record the question, three minutes, please. So, Mrs. Alexander Kugel. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u6	Frankly, Mr. Rizanenko, I'm surprised that you're the author of a bill that doesn't, well, just the properness of the name and the inner meaning of the bill. But what's so open about writing a bill that regulates the functions of the National Commission is frankly surprising to me. First of all, we, as deputies, always stand up for the function of the Supreme Council and control. When you suggest that Nazcomisi should not check, that it does not give proof of compliance with the legislation of the Ministry of Justice, that is, the control that goes through all the normative acts under the legislation, I'm even more surprised than Kabmin, except for what? You do, then we ask the Prime Minister, "Why is the commission doing this?".. He'll say, "You made her independent." You're making an organ that no one in this bill has a bearing on investors today. Please tell me you've been given this bill to sign, or it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u7	Please, Paul Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u8	My dear colleague, I'm doing this bill because I'm the head of a subcommittee on securities and stock market, that's my profile, that's why I'm doing this bill. Next. I'll remind you that the regulator is not part of the executive branch. And there are the principles of regulatory activity. And it was the main problem of all our regulators that depended on the executive branch of power because of what we call the judgment. What you mentioned is also a test of the compliance of those other regulatory acts of the Minustom legislature, the executive branch of power, which makes the regulator dependent on the executive branch of authority. If we look to all international practices and recommendations of IOSCO, an international organization that unites regulators in markets, stock markets, it is institutional capacity and independence. It's not random, it's a very important project. And I'm going to remind you that by the other two regulators, by the National Bank in part of its function.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u9	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u10	In part of his regulatory function, we've made Nazbank independent -- there's no redress. We did the same for the energy regulator, the NCRECR. We have three other regulators on which this issue should be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u11	Thank you. And the final question, Krivenko, turn on the microphone. Victor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u12	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I don't quite agree with the reporter that we have independence in the regulator's energy market, that he's dependent on the President and the way he forms members. But the question is a little bit different. Please tell me if I understand correctly that it is this bill that is called upon to make sense of the need for a split economy, on the condition that there, in two of these positions of support, there are two legs of the economy: one is horizontal reforms, this is improvement of the business climate, what concerns all spheres of activity, regulators, the energy market, the financial market, the fight against corruption, the anti-monopoly ceiling; and the other is focus on the sectoral priorities and instruments of their support. Do I rightly understand that this, your very bill, it improves the overall business climate, that is, and then applies to all the spheres where they will be applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u13	This bill refers to the activities of the regulator, i.e. its institutional capacity, its dependency-independence degree. We know that there's absolutely nothing in the world that's completely independent, that there's any institution or regulator that's still someone who's assigning someone there. In this case, the mechanisms that were put in place were similar to those that were installed in the energy regulator. This was done on purpose. In order not to deviate from some practice that the Supreme Council has already voted for. We know, once again, still in the end, someone is signing the appointment. There will never be such a thing as coming out of the vacuum, assigned and so on and so forth. But we're talking about institutions. Today the President is one, the Supreme Council is one, tomorrow is another. We're talking about principles, the principles of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u14	Thank you. Question time is complete. Thank you, Mr. Paul. And please record from factions. And once again, I ask you in a concise manner, to have as much part of the discussion as possible. Please record a statement from the factions, then it'll be from the deputies. From Peter Prashenko Block to Doubenko Volodymyrovich is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on the microphone, please, from the spot. See if your card is good. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u15	In line with paragraph 16 of the Memorandum between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund on Economic and Financial Policy, a change in the legislation of the securities market with the aim of exercising the authority, independence and institutional capacity of our National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets in accordance with international practice is envisaged. And so I want to say that the main emphasis is on developing international cooperation in countering capital market abuse. That's what this law is about because it's asked questions. I mean, at the prereading stage, there were many issues that link this support of the law in the first reading. And above all, about funding the regulator and its powers. We held a series of meetings on the committee, resulting in a more compromising version. But making these changes requires further work on the committee at the first reading stage. Therefore, I would like to support the procedural decision and bring this law back to the committee to prepare its drafting, which will satisfy all interested parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u16	Thank you. And now I'm inviting National MP Lavrick of Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u17	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, the bill needs to be amended. And start changing it right away on the front page, even from the title of the bill, because the bill on the regulator. And by taking a systematic approach to the law, we understand that today is one commission head, tomorrow may be the commission's head and others: the wolf, the rabbit -- and therefore those principles of the regulator's independence, which are prescribed in this law, are clearly not acceptable. Repealing the plea and the little thing that annuls the plea, and banning the decision of the commission in court as collateral has already called for something new in today's legislation that proposes the bill. I'm not going to read a few things for the MPs right now, but I'd like to pay attention to our listeners. What is proposed in the bill on the financing of our commission and the regulator for securities? Of course, we are in favour of paying the commission's employees a decent salary, for which there is an appropriate budget introduction, a proper procedure. But to raise money from the stock market as a contribution to regulation in size, as described in the law, is just a market robbery. Article 19. In the stock market, regulatory contributions are made in this size: investment firms – 0.3 per cent of the total income of transactions in 3 years; we understand turnover in 3 years; the regulated market operator – 3.5 per cent of the average turnover in 3 years; clearing activity – 5.5 per cent; the central securities depository – 5.5 per cent; the depositary – 0.035 per cent of the value, the nominal value of the securities placed in the depository; and asset management companies – one hundred per cent of the value of the assets of the investment companies. It's just a market robbery, you can't work with that kind of law. So I think that we will work with the committee, along with the market, on objective conditions, and then register a new law and work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u18	Thank you. Now, please give the floor to Mrs. Alexander Kugel of the Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u19	Thank you. In the continuation of the emphasis that our self-help colleagues have placed on self-help, I want to say and fully support that the title of the law does not correspond to its essence. Because that's what it's called "investor protection," and it's all written on investors' mugging and creating conditions for regulators' work. The other one. This is no longer a novelty for business to support state institutions. Such a law was voted by the Supreme Council for the audience. And so I'm not surprised to be able to regulate some area we're going to be taking extra money from business. What I'm trying to say is that there are, in addition, autonomous segments in the law of licensing professional activities in the securities market. I remind all authors that the problems of licensed activities are comprehensive in the Licensing Act. And only the Licensing Act can determine activities. I fully support the fact that the bill strengthens the financial burden on participants in the stock market and, in fact, for them to be regulated. The way in which the funds of this special fund are used to support the activities of the Naccomy is established by the Commission itself, which is contrary to the requirements of the Budget Code. The work of the competition commission, written in law, is provided by the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, but I remind you that the Supreme Council's mandate does not include the appointment of the members of this regulator as a result of the competition. In addition, an audit firm that conducts annual reports is also selected for the taste of the commission itself. We've already done this with the banks and our Naftogaz, when we were choosing friends who wrote the result for which we paid them separately. The Nazi Commission's decisions are not subject to public registration as to what I asked, the Ministry of Justice. Does Minister Petrenko know that we have not seen this before, and then we will read the novels, and who will go to trial? The Criminal Procedure Code - a very interesting one - is complemented by the provision for the mandatory involvement of a representative of Nazcomsia as a specialist in the investigation of a series of crimes and the mandatory use as evidence by a regulator of a test that this will not be considered to be an intervention in a pretrial investigation. It is considered to be a civilized country where there is law. The project needs substantial work and the Fatherland won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u20	Please make a statement from the Dust Block. Roman Romanyuk gives his word. That's how no one wants to go, our colleague went out. And he gives the word to Yuri Solovia, and I apologize. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u21	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! Is there a need for reinforcement today, an institutional strengthening of the national regulator in the stock market. Well, that's definitely true. Because the size of assets in many countries of the world under the supervision of similar regulators in some countries is even far superior. For example, like the size of the assets that are under the national bank regulator. And so it is clear that today we need to strengthen and create, in the shortest possible terms, such a legislative framework under the national regulatory authority of the stock market that. which would allow effective supervision and control of the stock market of securities and the stock market. But in addition to increasing the regulator's institutional capacity, we also need to do everything we can to actually fill the stock market and run this very important market in our country that needs to be spoken outspokenly today. The stock market itself can be one of the key elements and steps towards involving large-scale investments in the Ukrainian economy, and unfortunately today this stock market in Ukraine does not work. What could be the main internal driver to launch the stock market? Well, this is definitely the second level of the pension system, the mandatory accumulation of a pension system that we talk about a lot. But unfortunately, we still can't consider Bill 6677 in the Supreme Council, co-authorizing more than 60 people's deputies. Since this is the bill, it allows us to launch a stock market, it not only allows our pensioners to receive personal savings accounts, but allows these funds to invest in the Ukrainian economy, thereby giving up external lending. That is why I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, primarily in the shortest possible time, in parallel with the consideration of bills that reinforce the national regulator, to introduce and consider, as a minimum, the first reading in order to finalize the bill effectively, as well as the Law on the introduction of a mandatory cumulative pension system, Bill 6677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u22	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we're about to have a discussion with the deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. And that's what 9 minutes is for, according to the Rules. Please sign up for those who want to join the discussion. Please, Mrs. Belkova, I beg your pardon, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u23	Thank you very much, ma'am. I am grateful to the Committee on Banking for the fact that the Committee has tried to take into account all the positions that our committee has taken into account for the work of the Energy Regulator. It seems to me that it would be very right if all the regulators in the country were somehow created in a single image and similarity. Then I respect their decision that they decided on the committee to bring this bill back to work. And I propose to all of us in this room that we support this proposal. This will enable all deputies who today have warnings about a standard, to review them carefully, and to offer their suggestions to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Please, Gregory Sverk will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u25	Thank you. Please give the floor to my colleague, Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u26	Please, Mr. Demczak will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, we have, in fact, discussed this bill in detail in the committee and, in addition to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority had its own observations and we have also taken note of the comments from market representatives, the capital market, which have their main observations on the form of financing for a future independent, institutionally capable committee on securities and the stock market. We're ready to review, but in order for the bill not to be filmed at all, and for it to be included in the agenda, we still ask you to support your vote by returning to the committee. But using the moment to get the information, I want to say that we didn't even have an alternative to independence and institutional control. We're going to do all the work and work that we've done on the round tables with market representatives, and we're going to work on the bill, and we're going to take it back to the end of this session, and hopefully we're going to take it back to that session in the first reading. So all I'm asking is to support the return to committee by voting today to consolidate this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u28	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, the national MP, Juric, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u29	Please pass the word to Doubenko Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u31	Thank you, colleagues. No doubt I want to say that who doubts whether such a bill is needed, I will say that it is dedicated to the development of international cooperation in countering capital market abuse. The topic is very topical, important, and this is our international commitment. I want to say that we understand all the importance of this question, we understand how thin matter is. And that's why everyone on the committee has decided that we're going to go back and we're ready to rework it. So please, colleagues, let's not discuss this. I ask you to put it to the vote. I'd like everyone to support our proposal. And the committee assumes a voluntary commitment to work well and bring you a high - quality product, which we will then all vote on. Thank you. Support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u32	Thank you. And please, the People's Deputy is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u33	Thank you. Clearly, the bill is necessary and important. But I'm sure nobody needs these discussions today, because we're just wasting our time. I believe that when the committee asks for the bill to be returned, why these discussions? Let's get the bill back to the committee. The committee will work on and take another look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u34	Thank you. Please, Mr. Demczak, will you take the floor? Please, please. Guys, this is the last performance. There are no more willing to join the discussion. I ask you very much to return to the session room. Because so far there's no potential in the room, the potential is somewhere in the towers we're all focused on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the reform of the financial sector, the approvals of the Securities and Stock Markets Commission will be subject to the regulation of non-State pension funds in the near future, following the adoption of the Fraud Bill, the distribution of functions to the powers of the Commission. It's a big block of reform. And besides, the committee is now working on pension reform. And when we ensure the independence and institutional capacity of the Securities and Stock Markets Commission, including how the Commission can regulate and operate non-state pension funds. Which is a very important social aspect of saving the resources that our citizens will invest in pension funds into their individual savings accounts. This will enable the Stock Market Securities Commission to quickly address market challenges, including the conservation of these resources, the activities of financial market entities. Moreover, the Securities Commission, as an independent body, can effectively regulate the capital market as well. Market operators are also larger investment companies. And here independence is very important for early response. And some of the discussions we had came up with were whether we could allow the Commission on Securities in the Stock Market not to justify their normative acts. Nevertheless, we were able to make an alternative decision on the committee’s site, and the commission agreed. They're moving away from this position, even though the National Bank has such powers. So, as you can see, there's a constructive work going on, and today we're listening, including the representations of other factions, the Fatherland faction, including, I see that they have a position, and we'll take that into account in the drafting of the bill. So once again, I remind you that the committee is only asking to vote in favour of the decision to return the bill to the committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u36	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. I now ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, please invite the Secretary of the Supreme Council to the Chamber. And I'm going to put the committee's proposal to be the first to vote to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. To my conviction this is the right compromise position and I ask everyone to support the position of the committee, our colleagues, and I invite everyone to the hall, we move on to the decision-making process. Please come into the hall. Colleagues who are in beds and who vote in law, please return to the hall. Go back to the hall. So I put to the vote a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to protect investors from capital market abuse (No. 6303). The first suggestion of the committee is that they ask the room to send to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading for the drafting and improvement of the bill. I ask everyone to support the position of the committee and please vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the position of the committee. [[16:44:08]] For 190 190. In factions, please turn on. Block of Peter Poshenko – 74, National Front – 50, Opposition Block – 14, Self-help – 19, Radical Party – 14, Fatherskina – 1, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 3. Colleagues, I'll make an offer to return. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the voting and to enter the hall. If you'd like to invite the deputies to the hall, I'd like to make an offer to return to the vote. The committee has been preparing this bill for a long time, just like every bill. Working groups work and then such irresponsible voting. There are no political objections. Please take up jobs. Most factions support the proposal, just have to invite a colleague into the hall. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to protect investors from capital market abuse (6303). So please support the proposal to go back to the subject. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. Every voice. Vote. [[16:45:54]] For 212 It's just that Ivanchuk didn't make it. Colleagues, please. So please take up jobs. When I vote, don't go in the hall, don't have a discussion. Please don't leave the hall. I'm asking you to get ready. Please vote carefully and take your seats. Please, colleagues. It's a compromise proposal for a committee to work on. All factions will be able to participate in the work. I'm asking you all to support her, this proposal. So prepare for the vote. I would like to go back to the draft Law 6303. And I ask everyone to support this proposal and vote. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. So we vote. Please be supportive. We vote yes. Please be supportive. We'll support the committee. [[16:47:24]] For 216 Now I'm going to put a final vote on this one, final. Members of the committee still have a chance to convince a colleague or invite the factions to the hall, the heads of factions still have a chance to mobilize deputies, we're missing 10 votes, 10 votes. Support the committee, my friends, for the committee, it's a very important issue, and it's an opportunity, and a chance to reform the law. I'm asking for responsibilities from the national MPs. Please take your job and go back to work so you don't lose any votes. Please include the factions so that we can see where the potential is. "Peter Prashenko's Block", 79, I think we can do more, "The People's Front" 57, "The Opposition Block" 21, "The Self-Help" 20, "The Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" 16, "The Fatherland" 0, "The Will of the People" - 1, "The Rebirth Party" - 5. Colleagues, 10 votes. I'm asking you to mobilize now. Once I put the vote to a final vote, if this proposal does not pass, then I will put the bill on the basis and subject of the legislative initiative, if these decisions do not pass, the bill will be rejected. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to the Commission's proposal for a draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to protect investors from capital market abuse (No. 6303). And I ask everyone to take part in the vote, every vote matters, and everyone I ask to vote carefully, please support and please vote for the return, please vote carefully and support everyone. Vote, colleagues, vote, support, please support, vote. [[16:49:54]] For 239. Decision taken. And I'm putting bill 6303 on the committee, sending it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support the position of the committee. Please vote, vote. [[16:50:23]] For 236 Decision taken. Colleagues, while we have high mobilization, let's move on. The committee requests that the following Law 7092 be repealed. This allows us to move immediately to 4532: draft law on recognition of those who have lost their validity, some of the laws of Ukraine on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. In order for us to work effectively, I ask you to support the consideration of draft Law 4532 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[16:51:08]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy minister of agrarian politics and food, Mr. Kovalova Olen Victorovna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u37	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, your attention is now being drawn to the draft law, which is recognized as having become invalid, the two laws of the 99th year, which in fact put in a completely unequal, rigid administrative condition of the only APC branch, is the turquoise sector. The laws that are proposed that have become obsolete are the Act on State regulation of production and circulation of sugar. We have to set quotas for the production of beetroot, set annual quotas for the production of sugar, and every month we have to bring sugar to companies in the sugar sector, and we have to declare the surpluses and the presence of sugar in all businesses in this sector. In fact, the law doesn't work, it's actually an excessive state regulation. And the second law that is proposed to be accepted is that it has become invalid. This is also the 99th year Act, which proposes to set an exemption for sugar (quota "A") for domestic production. And allowing minimum prices to be set on a given product and restricting movement within the country. We would ask you to support this bill, it is supported by the National Sugar Association. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u38	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. No, I'm sorry, the committee first, then, but in a very concise way. Please, Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, the committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u39	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 5 July 2016 considered a bill on recognition of certain Ukrainian laws on State production regulation, the implementation of sugar (registration number 4532), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And he decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, registration number 4532, proposes that it be recognised that the Ukrainian Act "On State Production Regulation, Sugar Implementation" has become effective. Ukraine's Act on State Production Regulation, Sugar Implementation has undergone a number of changes, additions and exclusions since its adoption and has lost its complexity. The main scientific and expert office believes that a government bill resulting from the first reading may be accepted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Please support the committee's decision and adopt bill 4532 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Before you record for the discussion, I would like to inform you that there is now a delegation of the British Parliament present in Parliament. Deputies of the Scottish National Party leaving for Donbas tomorrow. And let's welcome them from the Ukrainian Parliament, they're in bed. Welcome! Thank you for your support. [[Applause]] Thank you for your solidarity and for our mutual victory over the aggressor. Colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. It's from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to say that the draft law that the deputy minister told us today really needs to be considered, and it needs to be adopted immediately in order to reverse a decision that has long since been in operation and does not represent anything in the sugar and sugar markets. Because we have more than a million tons of surplus sugar in the country today, which is located in warehouses in Ukraine and has no wholesale price, and sugar today is extremely stressful because the price of sugar today is within 10 dollars per kilogram. This price, of course, leads to the fact that sugar producers today do not have the ability to prepare effectively for the new season but, above all, to fund those who produce raw materials for the following year. I know these problems well, and so I ask my colleagues to support the bill and repeal the existing Sugar and Sugar Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u42	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u43	I'm talking to the government coalition and government officials. Disgusting Numbers: For the first time in five years, Ukraine has set a record of importing pork and other meat products into our country. Ukraine, which should feed itself we import, will soon see our children at the museum next to the dinosaur or in science textbooks. As a result of the policy of today’s authorities, the cattle are under 2 million. Imported daggers, digested people, and peasants are left without the ability to feed their families. Forty-two million tons of grains were removed from Ukraine last year, earning a meager 3 billion dollars instead of investing in agroprocessing, creating jobs in rural areas, developing farms, family farms, private households, and earning not $3 billion, and $30 billion and not having to go to the International Monetary Fund for credit or gas prices and selling land. Now what does the authorities want us to do? To move every Ukrainian pig is to sell the land. If there is a land market, it is said that three times the value of the land will be raised and people will be able to buy land. What kind of people buy the land? Ukrainians don't buy land because they don't have money. Glytas, latifundists, transnational corporations, that's who buys land, and Ukrainian peasants walk in bars. So I demand that Parliament support our changes to the Constitution on the basics of agarism in the country -- farming, supporting our grant initiatives, state support for the restoration of livestock and jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u44	From the "Fatherland" faction, Vlasenko Sergey is handing over to Yvchenkov Vadim. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u45	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like everyone to understand the essence of the bill. At the request of the World Trade Organization, we have to cancel the "A" quota. The "B" quota and the "C" quota have long been cancelled. What's the "A" quota? This is the supply of sugar in the internal market. That is, the Kabmin quotas every enterprise that supplies to the internal market. I want to tell you, plus in 2016, when sugar came down in the world, our sugars took a solid position in many of the world's markets. And of course, export prices were worthy to compensate for what they were selling in the internal market. What happened this year? More specifically, in the past marketing year, prices have actually dropped. And today, our domestic producers are forced to sell more in the internal market than they are exporting. How can this business be profitable under such conditions, and how can a manufacturer work under such conditions? Of course, we have to cancel. But at the same time, between the first and the second readings, we need to clearly work out the mechanisms so that there is no antimonopoly conspiracy. I'm saying that we have "Astarta" today, and today we have "Pfeifer" has 60 percent of the market. I'm not talking about other businesses or small factories in private, there's only 46 in Ukraine. So let's, let's vote, let's work first and second so that there's no conspiracy, so we don't increase the price, let's say it's artificial for the Ukrainians, and we will definitely support our manufacturer. "Paternality" is why we propose to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. All right. In two minutes we're going to the vote, and I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall, and now there's going to be a closing statement from Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich's rebirth party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill must be supported because we have long had to cancel the minimum prices for the implementation of sugar beet, according to quota "A". But I would like to point out that for the development of the sugar industry, the issue of eliminating existing customs duties on import equipment for sugar production is also of great importance. Today, Ukraine’s duty rate of duty and the full rate of such equipment for sugar production are set at 10 percent. The existence of bets also in no way contributes to the development of the sugar industry, and this is a huge problem for the industry. Ukraine does not yet have the ability to produce such high - tech equipment that there is, in fact, a huge problem in the field. Therefore, it is necessary to take these things into account for the second reading and to pay due attention to the fact that there is a customs office. The import of sugar equipment is a real obstacle to the development of the sugar industry. So we're going to support this bill for second reading, we're going to set the customs rates for the sugar industry equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u48	Thank you. So we've finished the discussion and we can move on to making the decision. I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for the vote, and we move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft law on recognition that some of Ukraine's laws on government regulation of production and implementation of sugar have been lost. ( No.4532) I'll wait another 10 seconds, please come in. Okay: with technical law, with the suggestions that Kulinich made for the committee to work on their second reading. So 4532 is the base. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:04:11]] For 242 242-yes. Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. We are next in line with the daily draft of the Act on Amendments to Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine, "On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Reduction of the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market" (8226). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:04:54]] For 184 184 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! As early as July 15th, you and I, with the aim of eliminating the trade deficit in the internal market, adopted a law that temporarily increased the export duty on scrap metal from 10 to 30 euros per tonne. The law worked very effectively, and in the first year alone 35,000 jobs were saved, over a billion dollars in foreign exchange. It's short-circuited a 40 percent metallurgy deficit. An increase in the rate of duty in the budget is threefold. Last year, you and I, in Parliament, also, at the initiative of the Radical Party, continued the operation of the metallurgical law for another year. The effect is very positive. The deficit has reduced pain more than twice. The country was given stability vaccination for the course of bracelets and for shop prices. But now the situation is getting worse. Metal scrapes in the world are becoming more expensive. And today's rate of export 30 euros per tonne ceases to function as a protective function. So the new metallurgical law, which you're proposing, number 8226, we're proposing to raise the export duty to 42 euros per tonne, to continue its operation for 3 years. This rate corresponds to an ad valorem rate of about 20 percent. For comparison. In China, 40 percent, more than 35 percent in India. I would like to stress that this law, just like the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", as well as the Law on the Moratorium for the Export of the Roundwood Forest, is fully in line with the exceptions provided for in our WTO Agreement and the Agreement with the European Union. The positive budgetary effect of this law is over a billion dollars a year. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u51	The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has considered this bill and is proposing to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a law with technical legal proceedings. Let's support the Ukrainian industry, the stability of the bracelet and the well-being of every Ukrainian. Arms armies, metalsmiths raw materials, Ukrainians work and wages. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u52	Thank you. Before I record, I want to report that I received a letter from Tetjana Donz’s national deputy that her credit card had not worked, and she voted in favour of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the protection of health and transplantation of organs and other anatomical materials. We can't change the site any changes, but we can say publicly that Tetian Donz, who made this law ready, voted for it, just didn't work. And now I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, we've been thinking for a long time about how to support this proposal, because we know that there are observations about this standard that works in our country. But still, to find compromises and take care of the development of the domestic sector. We support it if, in paragraph 2 of the first bill, the words "five calendar years" are replaced by "three calendar years." That is, the benefits will continue for another 1 year until September 14, 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u54	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u55	Oleg Lazko. On behalf of our iron team, I give a flaming welcome to Ukrainian metallurgists in Mariupol, Zaporozhye, Dniepri, Kamyanski, and all these famous heroic people, and let us thank the whole Parliament for their hard but necessary work for our country. This is an extremely important job to strengthen the Ukrainian economy, to increase the wealth of Ukrainian families. Sadly, today a man is undervalued. The government is trying to extend the Labour Code, which limits the rights of workers. The government is trying to trade raw materials instead of creating jobs inside the country. Not only do not every center learns about economists and lawyers. Soon we'll be moving people to work from abroad. My team policy is different. The restoration of vocational and technical education, the restoration of the prestige of a working man, the protection of the people of work, so that the man of work is in honor and at the centre of power. If the authorities do not hear this, we will make them hear the demands of the working people. And the requirement is simple: Every Ukrainian worker wants to see his children, his family, his loved ones, have a decent job in his home country, and get a decent salary for it. The Radical Party team is fighting to ensure that we do not take imports into Ukraine: neither imported coal nor imported metal, nor any other imported material. We have every opportunity to make our own. Our key task, my policy is to provide Ukrainians with jobs, return Ukrainians from earnings, raise wages, and, as a result, increase pensions. That's the goal that we're going with our iron team. Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u56	From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u57	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! The introduction of an export duty on scrap metal is an example of the really effective, effective influence of the Ukrainian Parliament. There's been a lot of talk here about export duties allowing for increased domestic supply of raw materials, increasing the value added, and that's good. I would also like to point out that after the introduction of a higher rate of duty, the exports of scrap metal from Ukraine did not drop but almost doubled, and in 2017 it reached almost 500,000 tons. And more than that, the government's revenue from a metal scrapper, grew fourfold and made half a billion dollars. It's already important and it's very important because unfortunately, metal scrapping exports are usually in the shade. By the way, there's a bill in the Supreme Council on the detinization of the metal market, and we hope that the situation will improve once it's adopted. But before that, export duty is an effective mechanism for securing the government's income. The question is, What is the reason why export duties should be increased? In fact, the prices for scrap metal two years ago amounted to about 150 dollars per tonne and now 300 dollars per tonne. And so the increase in the rate will also allow the state to get its fair share of the metallurgical transactions. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The law is really very short, there's only a few words. But there was a proposal from Southern Nina Petrovna to reduce from 5 years to 3 years. And I want to ask the committee. Will the committee accept this proposal as compromising so that we can get a positive vote? Please explain the position of the committee for one minute. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Okay. It'll be from the non-fractional and then the voting. Please, Halasyuk. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u59	Victor Halasyuk. Dear colleagues, in order to adopt this strategically important law for the Ukrainian industry and for every citizen, we are forced to take into account this amendment, which Nina Petrovna Jujanina has said. In part two of the first bill, replace the words "five calendar years" with "three calendar years." But this will allow the operation of the metallurgical law to continue, increase the export duty to 42 euros per tonne, give raw material to Ukrainian metallurgy, give work and pay to Ukrainians. So I urge, taking into account this clarification, to adopt the law now, in the first reading, and in general as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u60	Thank you. One more minute, from the non-fractional Jacob Bezbach from the rostrum. And I'm asking you to take your jobs, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't bother you very much with your speeches. But today I have to ask you to support the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on reducing the deficit of black metal scraps in the internal market. I have to tell you that metallurgy is the foundation, the fundamental sector of our economy. It provides part of Ukraine's total commercial exports, gives employment to 240 thousand citizens who are family members. More than 1 million Ukrainians. I have to tell you that the budget coming from the export of junk has tripled. Please support this bill. It's going to be reliability, it's going to be jobs, it's going to be wage growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u62	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to return from their beds to their places of employment. And I'll put it to a vote, with a proposal from Eugene. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter II, the Final and Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Reducing the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market (8226) with a proposal made by Eugene Nina Petrovna from the rostrum, from 5 to 3 years, on the basis of and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:17:19]] For 248 Decision taken. The next draft of Act 3131 amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. Colleagues, but yesterday's rating vote showed him no support. Come on, I'm asking you to do the rating vote now. Colleagues, I ask everyone to participate in the rating vote in support of draft Law 3131 on amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of National Property Objects in order to organize a procedure for alienating economic operators from the State sector of housing to their employees. Please support the rating vote, please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[17:18:23]] For 172 Colleagues, I'll re-establish the ratings, maybe not everyone understands. Colleagues, we can't bear anything right now, this law is next in line for the day. Just remembering that he did not take a vote yesterday in order not to put him at risk, I conduct a rating before the hearing. So I'm re-voting draft Law 3131, which is next. Is there support in the hall? Please vote and please support, colleagues, this is a rating vote, this is not a transfer. Please support, please vote, vote, please support. [[17:19:30.]] For 212 We can go in, I think we're picking people up. So I'm announcing the move to draft Law 3131 and I'm asking you to support the proposal for a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:19:58]] For-161 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Denisenko Anatolia Petrovich. Mr. Anatoly, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, today in our country, there has been a situation that employees of companies who live in a residential house that is on the balance sheet of an enterprise cannot own this apartment. And this does not apply to all state-owned enterprises, but only to those on the list that are not privatized and 100 percent of the shares owned by the State, other companies are able to own such housing. So, your honorary colleagues, so that our qualified personnel don't go abroad, we have to take a standard with you that allows the company to sell apartments to its employees. So once again, what I want to point out is that only companies that are listed that are not privatized, where 100 percent of the shares belong to the state, you can't alienate their employees. So I propose to supplement article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of State Property Objects with the rule that an authority of the management of households: the State Property Fund or the authorized authority of the administration will be able to decide on the alienation of housing for employees of such enterprises, this is not a novelty. This practice has been successful in some enterprises from 2004 to 2012, and it is regulated by Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.313. The cost of the apartments is taken according to an independent valuation of the value and is then in line with the Maintenance Fund. Dear colleagues, let's support it. So let's solve this problem and make sure that the workers who live in the apartments are able to buy them and solve their housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u64	Thank you. I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u65	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 3131 on amending the articles of the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property objects is brought to your attention. The bill proposes to allow state enterprises, organizations, companies, 100 percent of whose shares belong exclusively to the State, to carry out an order of deprivation of immovable property, namely housing, in the established legislation. You know that this project, it was born in collaboration with the state company Energoat, which in Soviet times, and this is a very large enterprise, and I'm just bringing it in as an example, a lot of housing around these big enterprises has been built and they're 100 percent state-owned, and they're keeping it today. But the problem is not even in restraint, the problem is that workers can't get this housing for themselves. And that's why I think it's a very nice legislative initiative. The Economic Policy Committee supported the bill and asks Parliament to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u66	Thank you. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support this bill because it's resourceful. A small example: the city of Novodnystrovsk, 204th constituency, Ukrhidroenergo, was built in the 1970s, when the largest hydroaccumulation station in Europe was built. House built, there live the energy. Ukrhidroenergo agrees to give them ownership and transfer them to Novodnystrovsk so that they can keep it, and the new builders can get their own housing. Without this bill, there is no procedure. So once again, please support both Novonistrovska energy and all Ukrainians, to whom the state and state-owned enterprises are willing to transfer the housing fund, they will become. Not together, they will own this property, and the utilities will maintain it properly. Thank you again. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u68	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Victoria Vojcitsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u69	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. I'll start with the main one. Colleagues, I urge all of you to unite around the voting for this bill. And I'll explain why. Because this is, in fact, a social, important bill. He'll finally let the employees of Energoat, Ukrenergo, privatize their housing in which they live. We're finally going to get justice, because at this point in time, the housing that people live in is being paid tariffs, as if they belong to enterprises, that is, companies that are a few times higher than they are. For industry, rather than for the population. That's the first one. The other one. People don't have the ability to create OSBBs and manage the property they live in together. So I ask you very much to support this bill and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u70	Thank you. And, fellows, we're about to make a closing statement. Accordingly, in two minutes there will be a vote because more than just from the Radical Party and no one else has volunteered. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. You've seen, we had a small number of votes per rating, and so I'm asking everyone to maximize their invitation to the Hall. And now two minutes from the Radical Party of Warm Wallery, and then we move on to making a decision. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u71	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the topic that the team of Oleg Láška's Radical Party struggles on every day: housing for the displaced. Nearly two million people in Ukraine lost their homes, lost their possessions, and lost their state support. These people are Ukrainians like us, and we have to help them. [[Applause]] We have to give them housing, we have to give them decent money compensation, we have to give them the opportunity to feel worthy citizens in our own country. I want to point out that there are a lot of pensioners among these people, older people who need decent medical care, who need affordable medicines that need the care of the state. I urge you to stop the abuse of these people, and I urge you to stop the humiliating and very offensive procedures for the verification of pensioners, and I urge you to pay them their pensions in time! But housing is a number one problem for every family, even where two parents work, it's very difficult to pay space rents. People are forced to make ends meet, they can't buy anything for their children, they can't feel worthy, they can't go on vacation. Let us show ourselves to be a worthy state. If we say we are a European state, let's be a real European state and give our citizens the right to a decent life in our own country. And the right to vote for the displaced, because without the right to vote, we cannot feel worthy of the constitutional right to vote. I am also a settler, like two million displaced persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u72	All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u73	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u74	The discussion is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. I'd like you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. I'll wait another 30 seconds, then I'll make a message, because I have two applications, and the authors insist that I make sure that they're sounded. One statement from the People’s Deputy of Chervakovi. She points out that during the vote, her vote was in favour of Bill 8226, and she actually voted against it. That's why I'm announcing this as a public position of the Red Keep that she voted "against" 8226. On the other hand, the national deputy Olga Belkova voted in favour of 8226, but the "Council" system obviously didn't work and her voice wasn't listed on the website. I'm making this public for both Redhead and Belkovy. I have statements that I am announcing, Mrs. Anna. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, and the rating vote has shown us a small advantage. And so it's very important, very important, maximum mobilization now. Come back, colleagues, from the rostrums of the bed, don't make me humiliate myself before every vote and remind you of it. So I'd like you to prepare. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects on the Ordering of the Procedure for Deprivation of Economic Economic Economics by Subjects No. 3131 to its Employees on the Basis Only. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully every voice, please support the basis. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:31:47]] For 244 Decision taken. No, BP's just on the ground. Colleagues, just like that? Is there a general objection? Can we do it in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no objection, is there? In general, there is no objection in the hall. I'm putting in draft Law 3131 as a whole, if there's any support for the hall, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:32:32]] For 209 209. No votes. Excuse me. So, colleagues, I would like to inform you that a decision has been drawn up that is very important and that is urgent for decisions to be taken this is the decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the current chairmanship of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and the parliaments of the OSCE participating States on the international observation of the OSCE in the election of the President of the Russian Federation in 2018. Colleagues, and it is very important that we accept it as soon as possible, that almost all the heads of factions are the authors. This decision is already given in the hall, there is a committee, and it's all received in the hall, it's given out. And that's why I have a big request that we immediately vote in favour of putting it into the agenda of the day session and consider now, and move on to its consideration. And I ask everyone to support the proposal, our delegation and the international position of Ukraine against the Russian aggressor. Got the position, didn't you? They're all co-authors. Can we vote? So I'm putting a motion to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and to move on to the current draft regulation 8365. Please vote and please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. Very important, every voice. [[17:34:11]] For 193 193. I'll do it again, colleagues. I want to emphasize that this is not the moment where we can involve political ambitions. This is the moment when we must unite in the common position of Parliament in condemning the elections in our occupied territory. So please enter the hall and take part in the vote. And during this vote, responsible and attentively, every vote. Ready? So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal so that we can get into the agenda and now move on to the draft regulation 8365. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to vote in favour of this proposal. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Vote. [[17:35:17]] For 205 205. Colleagues, this is not the time we can joke. This is the anniversary of the deportation of Crimean Tatars. And I ask the heads of factions now, now, all who are in the premises of the Supreme Council to bring them to the hall. I'm giving you one minute so the factions can mobilize MPs into the hall. One minute, please, Irina Heratchenko will explain the meaning of this decision once again. And I'm giving you a minute to get the deputies together. Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is important for us to vote on the decree today. First of all, it's symbolic that we have to accept her pre-year anniversary, the tragic anniversary of the deportation of Crimean Tatars, to honor the memory of the Crimean Tatars that were deported, on May 18th. And the second. There's a previous BDIPL/BSIE report that doesn't say a word about forged elections in Crimea. And this report, which is still posted on the BDIPL/OSCE site today, is going to be a permanent document in a few days. We must signal this organization to an internationally respected international organization that this is unacceptable. It's their second election report in the Russian Federation, where it's essentially happening, in their reports, the laudable legalization of the theft of our Crimea. So I'm asking everyone to come back from the towers right now and let us take this decision together. Obviously we have partners, allies, but there's just no necessary number of deputies right now. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u76	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to show by factions that we can see where mobilization is possible. Block of Peter Poshenko – 76, National Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 3. All right. Don't leave the hall, please. Return to the hall, who has left the hall. I will now put this proposal to the vote again and ask, carefully and responsibly, everyone to vote. So I'm putting a motion to vote that we now include in the agenda and move into the consideration of the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the current chairmanship of the OSCE and the parliaments of the OSCE member states on the international monitoring of the OSCE in the election of the President of the Russian Federation in 2018 (No.8365). Please vote and please support this proposal. Please vote, support, and be in the room when the discussion is under way. Please be supportive. Vote. Eugene, we're voting! It's all right. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:38:26]] For 212 212. I'll do it again. Igor, don't go, it's unfair, it's wrong, it's the authority of the state. Please, don't leave the hall, please. Colleagues, one more time in factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 58, "self-help" – 17, "Radical Party" – 17, "Fathership" – 11, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party Rebirth" – 2. I'm asking you, colleagues, I see more MPs from the Rebirth Party. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. I ask the "will of the people" who have entered, I see that Eugene Ribczynski has entered, please support. I'm asking for all non-fractionals, please support. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote again, and I'm going to ask everyone to vote carefully. I'm putting to the vote the proposal that draft Decree 8365 be incorporated into the agenda of the day session and moved to its consideration now. I ask everyone to support and please vote, colleagues, every vote please support, please vote, vote, please support, vote. [[17:40:01]] For 215 11 votes. We'll wait, we'll wait for the votes. Colleagues, I have the right to make this proposal, it's not limited, as much as I can put it. I was told that the committee was now sitting. Let's exchange thoughts, I see, are willing to make a statement and I'll put this proposal to the vote again. So, I'll give you right now, raises Igor Šurm, one minute. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! Today, the great religious festival is still a great obligation for people to come to work and work. I have a question, so how does that work? In the morning, when the embroidery day was to be photographed, there were 325 deputies. And when you have to vote for an important bill, there is no one. This is the first one. This is the first one. And secondly, I'll tell you one thing, today you are, after all, a coalition, capable of showing that you are or are you not? Why do you raise a matter of general importance to the Chief of the Supreme Council, from his point of view, and not vote? It's a disgrace. People are analyzing what is happening in the Supreme Council and you are unable to vote without a button. You're embarrassed, and thank him for doing his job.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u78	Please, one minute of Chubarov. Let's do it, one minute Chubarov, one minute Burbak and we'll vote. The committee, 17 people have returned, and that's why there are voices. Please, Chubarov from the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! First of all, from a completely different point of view, I would very much like us Ukrainians to go every day in these embroidery. We simply emphasize how worthy we are of the nation. Now I want to say about our statement, we have to accept this statement, the statement of the previous International Observation Mission of the OSCE Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights, if we leave it unresponsive -- it's an attempt, you see, it's an attempt to put a sign of equality between Russia's illegal efforts as an aggressor state and the efforts of the entire OSCE community. We have to say very clearly that the Office of Human Rights Democracy, a more faithful mission is being observed, has made a big mistake, and it has to fix it. We have to go everywhere systematically and consistently and demand that all the international sites of Russia be evaluated exclusively as an aggressor who is to leave the Ukrainian lands to leave Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u80	So, colleagues, this is the final statement of communication and we're voting. In a minute, I ask you to be, in one minute, in one minute, I'll put this motion to the vote again. One minute, Maxim Burbak and ask everyone to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, here one of the speakers spoke of the festivals today. But now I would like to remind him that at such a great festival and religious, there is no need to be wicked, he tells us that there is a vote in this room. Instead, this thief’s block, which greets King Putin’s reassignment in Russia, gives no voice. So you're talking about patriots now, are you sitting here waiting for Putin to get here? Don't wait. Then I can say again that we must now vote on the decree. But the position of the People's Front is that it should be more severe because the People's Front thinks that these were illegal elections of the President of Russia and he's an illegal president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u82	So, my colleagues, I'm asking you to take care of your jobs, and the people's deputies from the committee who were sitting on the third floor have returned. Don't leave the hall, don't leave the hall, help me, what are you guys doing? Go back to the hall now. And I'm putting once again on the vote the proposal that we include the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the current chairmanship of the OSCE (number 8365) in the agenda of the day session and move on to the consideration of this decree now. Please vote and please support. Each voice, we vote carefully and in a coordinated and responsible manner. Please support, we vote. [[17:45:12]] For 225 We didn't make it. Once again, I'm putting a motion for a vote. Don't leave the hall, Andrew, we have one voice, one voice. I'm once again proposing to include the agenda of the day session and now to consider 8365. Please vote, please support. And keep awake, and keep awake every voice. Please support, we vote. [[17:45:47.]] For 241 It's on. And now, colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote for the short cut. [[17:46:10]] For 210 Decision taken. I invite Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna to report. Please have a brief discussion. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u83	My fellow Members, I would like to thank the Parliament, which in March adopted an extremely important appeal to our colleagues from the European parliaments regarding the threats posed by President Putin's election to the Crimea. And it was, including, that Parliament's statement became a factor that was adopted against the organizers of these elections. Unfortunately, however, the organisation that monitors the elections, the OSCE, the BDIPL/OSCE are already giving their second report without indicating that Crimea is Ukrainian, referring to the fact that there is no consensus among the OSCE participating countries on the status of the territory. Although it is clear that there is only one country involved. And that's why we have an address statement to send to this organization right now. And this statement with you will be the basis, including for our parliamentary delegation, which will work at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Berlin in July, where they will raise this issue, will require a report from both the OSCE and on this subject, and on the work of the OSCE. Last thing I want to say is, on the occasion that our Ukrainian delegation raised a question in Minsk yesterday, and the need for the OSCE's SMS to provide information on why Wagner was on Donbassa on May 9. And we require our OSCE partners to be honest with Ukraine, to point out these facts, but also to establish that Crimea is Ukrainian, and these elections have been falsified. I thank all my colleagues for signing this statement. I agree that it should be more rigid. But the main thing is that you and I have to react very hard, especially on the eve of the year of the deportation of the Crimean Tatars, our Ukrainian brothers. We're going to give you a huge one. The words of Baloohu Volodymyr, all the criminals who are now suffering from the occupation regime, and we have no right to forget them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u84	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u85	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, this is a very important reference, because it is by this appeal that the Supreme Council will demonstrate its principle of position with regard to the illegal organization and the holding by the occupying Russian administration of the election of the President of the Russian Federation and the voting in the illegally occupied territory of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the city of Sevastopol. And it is here that we want the OSCE/BDIPL to ensure that the final report is consistent with the principles of objectivity, independence, impartiality and the widest possible international election monitoring, without allowing the same international standards to be discredited. We also want the final report to have a full and objective assessment of the illegal organization of the electoral process and the vote in the territories temporarily occupied by the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol during the election of the President of the Russian Federation on 18 March 2018 and their impact on the results of the vote in general in the Russian Federation. That is why we demand to develop clear standards for electoral assessment, response to challenges and threats to international standards for democratic elections in cases involving the occupation of the territory of the OSCE member states as a result of armed aggression and violation of their territorial responsibility. We also urge that there should be no double standards that the mission statement should mention the fact that Crimea and Sevastopol are illegally occupied by the Russian Federation. And given the situation that is currently taking place, we see in the European Union, when the principle of their acceptance of European aspirations is applied to the Western Balkans, to Ukraine -- no; on the North Stream, we see the double standards of our key partners. That's why I think that our principle position of the Supreme Council should strengthen Ukrainian diplomacy in support of our national interests. I ask all those in favor of the interests of the State to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u86	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Chubarov, Petra Dustenka Block. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u87	I will be very brief to proceed immediately to the vote. Actually, a statement could be more harsh, but it's the next time. Now we have to vote, let's support this statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u88	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, once again, I appeal to all that we must unanimously support this decision, and I appeal to our Western colleagues from the OSCE. The report on the monitoring of elections, the so-called elections in Russia, should be in one sentence: "These elections are illegal." Because they were conducted illegally in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine in Crimea, they were carried out with numerous forgeries, intimidation of our Ukrainian citizens, and inciting them to vote in favour of an illegal president. And this report should be based on the expansion and introduction of new sectoral sanctions against Russia for holding such so-called elections by the kings of Russia, for building the Kerchen Bridge illegally, for arresting our fishermen in the Azov Sea, for building the "North Stream - 2" and trying to put Europe in a gas storm. For all of this, it must be the hard reaction of our Western partners all over the world, the full sanctions against Russia in order for everyone to understand is an aggressor country that cannot be negotiated with. So thank you. And once again, I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, so now there's going to be a closing statement. So in two minutes, there's going to be a vote. I'm asking the heads of all the factions that support this bill, for those two minutes, everyone who came out came out of the hall now, to return to the hall. I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to report that in two minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. And I ask you carefully to mobilize every national MP of all factions. It's a closing statement from Fatherland, Sergey Vlasenko. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u91	Fatherland supports this decision. Please join us. Let's go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m1.u92	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Look who's not around to call and please take all the jobs. Come into the hall! Come in, colleagues, into the hall! Okay, with the committee's editorials. So can I bet already? Is everyone in place? I bet I'm going to vote and I'm putting to a vote the draft decree to turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine into an active vote in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the parliaments of the OSCE member states on the international observation of the OSCE in the election of the President of the Russian Federation in 2018 (number 8365) on the basis of and as a whole of the technical and legal rights of the committee that were adopted on the committee. Please vote, and I ask your support, colleagues, in agreement, each vote, please support, I ask you to vote with responsibility. So we vote, we support, colleagues, this is the international authority of our country, we support, we vote in favour. [[17:54:55]] For 228 228 - for. Decision taken. Decisions accepted, colleagues. We've had a very difficult emotional, full day, but I think we've finished today on a very good note -- embroidery day. I thank everyone once again for the good mood, for having adopted many laws, for working effectively and in harmony today. And since the time has come for us to consider the bills, I announce that the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. And I remind you that tomorrow we will begin our work with an hour of questions to the government. Thank you, everyone. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
