ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats in the hall. Please take your seats in the hall. Guys, we have a lot of invitees. See where there's free space, fellows. Choose just where you want to go, and take your seats in the hall. I think, colleagues, I'll go to the apparatus. I think you can get into bed. And in the government's bed, you can go in, and in the guest bed, colleagues, there's still room. Yes, and there are two rows! Therefore, colleagues who have no place to sit for the moment, I ask you, take your place in the bed, both in one bed and in the other. Look, there's a west and there's a west, colleagues. I recommend not to stand there, but rather take your seats while they are there. And, representatives of the Secretariat, please help me show you how to get into bed. Please come in. Good day, honourable colleagues, distinguished national MPs1 In a meeting devoted to honouring the memory of the victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Affairs, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna, Presidents of Churches and Religious Unions of Ukraine. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Representatives of governments and parliaments of the world, representatives of the diplomatic corps, public organizations, and the media are present. Honourable National MPs, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a meeting dedicated to honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u3	Dear participants in our meeting! Our land and our people have suffered many calamities over the past millennium from various conquerors and captives. But throughout the thousand - year history, the greatest tragedy for the Ukrainian nation has been the planned and accomplished by the communist Soviet authorities, Holodomor. And the symbolic and very important words for us Ukrainians are the words of his recent address to His Holiness, Patriarch Bartholomew, concerning the 85th year of Holodomor, in which he notes in particular that "the historic and suffering Constantinople Mother Church communicates with all of you with the burden on your hearts, in prayer, recalling the Holocaust of the Ukrainian people, a tragic and inhuman event of 32-33 years when countless people died of deliberate and cruel hunger." According to the organizers of the Holodomor, the physical destruction of a large part of the nation, as well as mental changes in the character of the Ukrainians as a result of suffering, would be to humiliate the Ukrainian free spirit, to keep it in the territorial frontiers of the empire and in the spiritual cartel of the "Russian world". In the Kremlin, the liberation of the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1920 was well remembered, for it resulted in the formation of the Ukrainian State and the unification of all Ukrainian lands, from Galicina and Carpathian to Cuba and Slobojanska, from Crimea and the Black Sea to Polissia and Severščina, into a whole single organism. And only the disagreement between the Ukrainian leaders and the very many social oppositions imposed on us from the outside failed to allow us to maintain Ukrainian statehood, and it did not allow us to complete the eternal dreams of generations of Ukrainians. In the early 1920 ’ s, it seemed that the new Bolshevik authorities, established in the Russian Empire solely because of terror, needed no more casualties, but the Bolsheviks prepared a new outpouring of repression. And the first victim, even before mass shootings and Gulagas, was a Ukrainian peasant. At first, Ukrainian peasants took land and personal belongings. By the end of 1927, the Soviet authorities had approved decisions on the collectiveization of agriculture. And in January 1928, violent farming began, while destroying wealthy farms, which the Communist regime called "Kurkul". By 1931, more than 352,000 such farms had been destroyed in Ukraine and some one and a half million people were literally robbed. Prior to the day, the pressure on intellectuals and clergy grew. As always, they tried to destroy intelligence. The authorities then saw a threat to the Communist regime. An antireligious attack was part of the destruction of the traditional Ukrainian peasant system. The total destruction of the Ukrainian Church took place: the temples were destroyed and the priests were sent to Siberia. The Ukrainian autocathal church was eliminated, and its clergy were reprised. The collectivization planted by the Communists was exposed to strong opposition from Ukrainian peasants, for whom land and generation - bound private property were the foundation of their decent lives. In February and March 1930, the rural unrest, which was mostly peaceful, covered almost the entire territory of sub-Sradan Ukraine, for a time Stalin even had to stop the collectiveization, but in the fall of 1930 he returned to it. The Ukrainians still remembered the events of the Ukrainian revolution and the times of the Ukrainian People’s Republic and the Ukrainian State as an alternative to the Bolshevik dictatorship. To solve the problems faced by the Communist regime in Ukraine, the Bolshevik call decided to destroy the Ukrainians in a mass way, and the Holocaust was the result of a planned Kremlin policy that has not yet been seen by the people of mass execution. In July 1933, Ukraine from Moscow was forced into a well - knownly unrealistic scheme. On July 7, 1932, the SSR CTC Regulation on the Protection of Property of State Enterprises, Colosses and Cooperatives and the Strengthening of Social Social Property, which was given the sad title of the 5-Colossus Act, was adopted. A secret instruction on the application of the original signature of the cat Stalin is now displayed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second - floor towers. The decree was directed against peasants who, in saving their children from starving to death, had to carry home a kilogram or 2 grains, which they grew. According to this document, about 150,000 people were sentenced to mid - 1933. On January 22, 1932, Stalin’s directive banned peasants from starving areas of Ukraine and Cuba, mostly Ukrainians. They were relocated to other parts of Ukraine. The exit was blocked, and those who were able to leave were arrested and returned to starve to death. The information component of the genocide was the deliberate blocking of any information about the famine that was in Ukraine. Those who kept the logbooks of Holodomor as Alexander Radchenko or photographed as MikolaBokan were condemned and sent to the camps. You can also see the archiving materials on them at our exhibition in the second floor towers. In the U.S.S.R., the theme of the Holocaust has been banned for more than 50 years. Even in the Western world, only individual journalists, such as Garrett Jones, dared to write openly about the crime of artificial hunger committed by the Communist regime. The Ukrainians are eternally grateful to the scientists Robert Conquest, James Mace, who devoted much of their lives to the study of the Holocaust. A great deal of thanks to the Ukrainian diaspora in the free world, which pierced the walls of deliberate silence, lies, and indifference, provided wide publicity to the subject of the Holocaust in the world. The writers Vasil Bark, UlasSamchuk, and others in their works gave a masterful word to the world about the tragedy that the Ukrainians experienced. Dear friends, these days of the 85th anniversary of the disaster, I would like to pay particular tribute to the parliaments and governments of all the countries that have officially declared the Holocaust to be a genocide of the Ukrainian people. The reminder of this tragedy is an essential part of all my international travels and all my international contacts. And today I want to thank our Polish colleagues very much. I would like to inform you that yesterday, November 21, 18th, the Senate of the Republic of Poland unanimously passed a decree in the year of the Holodomor in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Today, this decision has been handed over to me, and it states, "We believe that the spread of knowledge of this great tragedy in Europe will contribute to a better understanding of the consequences of communist ideology and totalitarianism." And it is emphasized that as early as 2006, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, in a special determination, recognized the Ukrainian assessment of these events as a crime of genocide. And, importantly, in the Polish Seima, this approval was unanimously supported by all the parties and all the political forces that are in the Seima. Thank you, our friends! [[Applause]] We must remember what the inhumans, who planned and ruthlessly carried out the Holocaust, did. As a result of the genocide, millions of Ukrainians have died and millions have left their homes. In some villages, the traditional way of life was completely destroyed, and a private initiative was destroyed. And in addition to the horrendous crime of mass murder, a sneaky attempt has been made to break the Ukrainian national character with inhuman shocks and suffering. I remember that well, my grandmother, from Babai near Kharkiv, had, until the last days of her life, only one goal — to feed us, little grandchildren. They all had a massive internal breakdown after the tragedy, when loved and loved ones, survivors of the Holocaust, died. But the main goal for Bolsheviks was Ukrainian children. The school had an end-of-kraination policy, says Mikola Petrenko, and he writes, "For me, first-grader, it was very strange. In the spring of 33, our teacher, Tamara Mikolayevna, enters the classroom, and in her arms is a knot with pieces of beaten glass. I gave each one a slice, and we scratched the letter "g" hooks out of the letter. It was then that the letter was canceled as too Ukrainian. The Bolsheviks worked hard to bring back to the Ukrainians the historical memory, the desire to be masters of their land and property, the desire to turn them into disorderly cosmopolitans, without history, without genealogy, without language, without faith. But they failed to destroy Ukraine. Despite millions of sacrifices, the Ukrainian people found the will and the power to reborn and break free from the Russian yoke. Today we have chosen and created an independent Ukrainian state. Here in this room, we have legally established decommunization, condemned and banned anti-human, Nazi and Communist ideology. And the Ukrainian people in the villages and cities eradicated mentions of the kats of Ukraine, all over Ukraine, from west to east. Today, like 85 years ago, we have the same enemy, because only names change: "King's Russia", "The Soviet Union", "The Russian Federation" is the same thing as the Russian Empire with its complexes and its aggression. And just as then, the enemy wants not only to kill the Ukrainians physically on the front but, above all, to destroy our Ukrainian spirit, the Ukrainian Church, and the Ukrainian language. But we Ukrainians will never again allow ourselves to be destroyed and despised. We will not allow the future to be taken away from Ukraine. We don't forget anything and we don't forget it. The enemy will pay for everything. Today our answer, the Ukrainian answer, to the angry Moscow: the independent Ukrainian European state -- to be the Ukrainian local Orthodox Church -- is to be. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian language law is to be. [[Applause]] Of the millions of lit candles, a candle of memory, will be born, an incendiary enemy, a flame of Ukrainian victory. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I offer to honor the moment of silence for the memory of all the victims of the 1932 and 1933 famines in Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, as the Head of the Supreme Council returns to his place. Those who are still standing in the doorway, I ask you very much, you can take your seats, there's plenty of room in the hall. Please go either to the hall or to a bed where you can sit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, with great respect, I give the floor to Patriarch Kyiv and all of Russia-Ukraine to Filaret. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u6	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, Head of the Supreme Council, Honourable Deputies, National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Representatives of the Ukrainian Authority, Dear Ukrainians! I am speaking out of this important rostrum of Ukraine not only as the chairman of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, but as one of the last witnesses of Holodomor, because I was four years old in 1932-1933, and I remember well these years that happened, except I didn't understand then what purpose and who govern it, and what was the reason that, as parents said, the harvest was great in 1932 and there was no bread. Where did the bread go? - We're out of here. – Why were they taken out? And that's what I realized when I started looking into the causes of the famine. And the reason for Holodomor is that the census of the population of Ukraine, not Ukraine at all, but the Soviet Union, showed that the Ukrainians in the Soviet Union were 85 million and the Russians were 65. So the godless Soviet leadership in Moscow decided to destroy the Ukrainians so that they would not prevail over the Russian people. This is one reason, since the 1939 census showed that the Ukrainians had become 65 million and there were 85 and the Russians had become more. The second reason is that Buharin said, "Whoever owns the bread has the authority." And the Ukrainians owned the bread, so they actually had authority, according to Buharin. And so a collective process began to pass the bread to the Soviet authorities, and Ukrainian peasants did not want to go to Colombia. And that was the second reason for the destruction of the Ukrainians: to take possession of the bread. The fact that it was a purposeful Dutchman for the destruction of the Ukrainians and for the destruction of the Ukrainian farmer, there is no objection, for my father worked at a factory, a cement plant near the village, and was not given bread to the workers of this plant. Why not? And because they're peasants, they're out of the village, and they had to be destroyed. As a result, Father and his family moved to the mine, and the Russians were mostly employed, so the Russians were given little bread, and the workers were given 400 grams, and the family members were given 200 grams of bread. And so, like my brothers, I was given 200 grams of bread, and my grandfather was not given because he was a peasant. And that's why Grandpa died of hunger because there was no bread. That is why this truth should be known not only by us but by the whole world. And we are glad that the world supports us, supports the truth: the famine was not a famine, and it was the destruction of the Ukrainian people, the destruction of the Ukrainian farmer, to rule. And we are very grateful to all those nations that have recognized the Holodomor in 1932-1933 as genocide. I think in time the whole world admits that it is indeed a genocide, not a simple hunger. And that is that we, the Ukrainians, are recognized as a people who have survived this genocide, are being confirmed by our Ukrainian state. And that's why they're talking about Ukrainian genocide around the world right now with other genocides. And the Ukrainian people are being strengthened, strengthened. The apostle Paul said of Christians that “we are being killed and we are alive. ” So we Ukrainians can say: We have been destroyed, and we are alive! And not only are they alive, but we're being confirmed because we have a Ukrainian state that's going through a test right now. A test of whether we deserve to have a state or not? And our people said that we are worthy to have our own state. For we have a rich story, and we are an ancient nation. Hence, it is no coincidence that young people go east voluntarily to protect their land. They go voluntarily not only for the first time, but after being injured, they return. What does this indicate? This shows great love for his native land, which he prefers for his people to be free, free, and free from slavery. And that's why we sing, "Let's lay down our soul and body for our freedom." And it is true that not only do we sing, that we lay down our soul, but we lay our soul for our freedom, for we do not want to live in slavery, nor will we ever live! [[Applause]] And I would like to point out that in this process of fighting for the approval of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate plays a major role, as do other Christian Orthodox and non- Orthodox churches, who are actively involved in protecting our native Ukrainian land. And now we're expecting from the Universal Patriarch Warfolomy the recognition of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church by the autocephal church, an independent church not only from Moscow, but also from Constantinople itself. We're going to be independent of all the centers and we're going to get Tomos. So not only does this idea confirm us, but it causes us to tremble, literally in Moscow's tremor, because if the Ukrainian Church became recognized as autocephalic, it means that Moscow will not be in Ukraine. [[Applause]] There will be no Moscow spirit, but Ukraine will prevail. We also honor the Russians who live in Moscow, but we honor them when they love the land that feeds them, who accepts them. And if they don't love the earth, they don't take us. We should love this land and thank it for feeding them. And we believe, believe and believe that the only Ukrainian church will be in Ukraine, and that the Ukrainian state will not be destroyed by any enemy force, the more Russian forces. I want us Ukrainians to be united first, for in unity our strength is ours. And all the trouble that the Ukrainian people have suffered for a thousand years of history, the reason for it is our disunity. And that's why we say in prayer, "God, give us unity." And when there is the only Ukrainian Orthodox Church, along with other Christian churches and representatives of other religions who love the land on which they live, we will build a strong Ukrainian state that will be the foundation of peace not only in Europe but also in the world. Praise Jesus Christ! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u7	Heroic glory! I have the honour to invite the head and father of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of the Blessed Rev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u8	Your Holiness! The High Priests! Holy Fathers! Dignified Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Representatives of the Ukrainian State! Our precious world Ukraine, which is here! Decent representatives of the diplomatic corps! Dear guests! Praise Jesus Christ! In these days we mention the victims of the great tragedy, the crime against mankind. A wound not only to the body of the Ukrainian people but to all mankind, known under the word Hullodomor. Today, before our Lord and Savior, we want to mention all the sacrifices, for not we, but he knows the name of everyone, the name that is written in him on the heavenly tablets. But with this tragedy in mind, I would like to mention today the heroic pages of these novels. All those who tried to be the voice of those to whom the voice was taken; those who saved the victims of this great tragedy. I would like to mention today my great forerunner, righteous Metropolitan Adrej Šeptick, who first among all the leaders of the world thought, and perhaps the first among the church leaders, along with his Galician Bishop, raised his voice in defense of the dying Ukrainians in the Great, as it was said at that time, Ukraine. On July 24, 33rd, our princes sent a historic letter to the world community called Ukraine in the pre-mortal cadavers. In that letter there are these words: "The blood of the workers that have been plowing in hunger in the black country of Ukraine calls for vengeance to heaven! All Christians throughout the world, all who believe in God, and in particular all workers and peasants, especially all our countrymen, are asked to join this voice of protest and pain and spread it to the farthest countries of the world." It was from the initiative of Andrey Sheptick in Lviv that a National Rescue Committee was established, which was then supported by the Orthodox clergy of Poland, and then distributed to all countries of Europe and the world: Canada and North America. Our rulers were not only the first to speak the truth. For all the world, they began to deliver brothers and sisters from the famine of the congregation in an active way. In all our parishes, all our communities began to collect funds, and then food. This is strange, but money and food came to those who needed them. We don't know how much we were able to collect, but in those Polish zlotys there were tens of thousands. In fact, the Ukrainians themselves were not very rich at the time, after years of war. Thanks to the work of the Ukrainian community around the world, the voice of the dying superniprian was heard in the world and other representatives of other churches, other nations, joined us. Today, I would like everyone who lives on a beneficial Ukrainian earth to hear the sound of blood that cries out to heaven today. I would like everyone who comes to this fertile land and every honest person in the world to listen to that voice in these days. Today, we pray for all the victims of the Holocaust and ask the Lord to accept the children of the Ukrainian land in his arms. But today we too want to remember with appreciation all those who saved those victims. Our everlasting memory of our brothers and sisters who were artificially starved in Ukraine. But eternal glory and gratitude to all those who have saved even one Ukrainian soul. For, as ancient wisdom says, "He who saved even one man saved the whole world." Praise Jesus Christ! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u9	Heroic glory! Before I give my word to the next speaker, I want to say that there is an interpreter in every job, because I hear that some translate. And you can use the translator, which is the headphone, to do that. On the first channel, you will be able to obtain a translation during the hearing of the talks. And, honourable colleagues, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador, an expert in international law, a doctor of law, Professor Vladimir Vasilko, is invited to the floor. [[Applause]] Translation on channel two, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u10	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable participants in the session! Hunger is a terrible word and a murderous phenomenon. Hunger can result in a person’s loss of life under certain circumstances. For thousands of years, in numerous wars, nations have occasionally used hunger as a means of forcing the defenders of the enthroned fortresses to stop their resistance. It's cruel and it's antihuman. However, the besieged always had a choice — either to die a hungry death, or to give up and remain alive. Hunger as a weapon has never been used against its own population, but it is in peacetime. In 1932-1933, under conditions of peace, the Lenin-Stalin Communist regime, under which the specter of Russian imperialism was hidden, deliberately used hunger in Ukraine as the harshest, absolute weapon of mass destruction, leaving millions of Ukrainians with no chance of escape. With this devilish weapon, the Ukrainian nation was apocalyptic in its scale and impact. But the nation survived, and thanks to the tireless efforts of its better sons and daughters, the nation was restored and restored to Ukraine’s independent state. We live in it today and honor the memory of millions of Ukrainians who have been killed by famine. Today, Russian imperialism has once again challenged us with a deadly challenge, triggering armed aggression against Ukraine. Its purpose, in principle, is not different from that of the Holocaust: the destruction of the Ukrainian nation and its statehood. The best monument to the victims of Holodomor and all who gave their lives for the will of Ukraine will be victory in Ukraine’s war, and it will surely be behind us. Artificially organized in Ukraine, which is now known as the Holodomor, the world’s largest crime in the Bolshevik robes of Russian imperialism against the Ukrainian nation, the crime of genocide. The Marxist dogma operation of Lenin-Stalin doctrine came from a bizarre prospect of building a single world proletarian state. Its system was to be formed by Bolshevik Russia. There was no place for agriculture or individual nations in that country. In organizing an artificial famine in Ukraine, the totalitarian Communist regime sought to exterminate Ukrainian peasants, who were part of the Ukrainian nation, and who did not accept the Communist idea and authority, stubbornly resisted attempts to deprive them of their private property to land and establish a land system in Ukraine that contradicted the world’s values and centuries - old traditions of Ukrainians. The Ukrainian nation was always viewed as a corrupting factor and as a potential threat to their integrity and to their very existence. The genocidal destruction of Ukrainian agriculture by famine has become a component of a multi-track and multi-purpose preventive punitive operation directed against the Ukrainian nation as such. At that time, most of the villagers were Ukrainians, and most of the Ukrainians were peasants. Among the rural population, Ukrainians accounted for the vast majority, and in some areas they accounted for more than 90 percent. So the regime destroyed the Ukrainians because they were peasants and the peasants because they were Ukrainians. Used as a weapon to subdue Ukraine, Holodomor became a means of finalizing the land issue in a Communist way. Today, certain business and dependent policy circles in Ukraine want to solve the issue in an oligarchic way. In recent years, Ukraine has been promoting such a “free” market model that can lead to the creation of giant land latifunds and bring about a new catastrophe that is no less destructive to the entire nation than the Holocaust. [[Applause]] The best respect for the memory of the victims of Holodomor would be to establish in the Constitution the standard of the principle: "The foundation of the land system of Ukraine is the agricultural private farm of the family type". [[Applause]] In order to implement this principle, it is necessary to draft and adopt a detailed bill, and in accordance with article 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to call it the Ukrainian Law on the Protection and Conservation of Land as National Riches. [[Applause]] The law should provide for the introduction of a civil market in Ukraine on the basis of the rejection of primitive treatment of it as a normal commodity. The legal conditions governing the sale of land should exclude the possibility of looting and destruction both by their own oligarchs and by foreign capital. We have to assume that the land is a product of a particular kind and a strategic national resource that depends on the preservation of the well-being and security of the entire Ukrainian nation, and ultimately on the existence of Ukrainian nationality of the Ukrainian type. Respectable Society! The famine has become a brutal means of war against the Ukrainian language, a key sign of the identity of the Ukrainian nation, its integral integrity and unity. The power of the White Empire has fought against the Ukrainian language through all its limitations, and the power of the Red Empire has resorted to far more radical, rather criminal acts. By starving millions of Ukrainian farmers, the Communist regime physically destroyed the carriers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u11	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u12	The famine resulted in a significant decrease in the number of Ukrainian speakers. In times of famine and woe, Ukrainian villages have been silenced by a Ukrainian song that has always been a reliable preserve of the Ukrainian language. Instead, in 1934, some 500 new songs by Russian composers were recommended by the Communist authorities. The Communist regime used Holodomor as a reason to turn Ukraine into a country. And ever since then, the waves of the Russians of Ukraine have begun. Already, in an independent Ukraine, there has been a displacement of Ukrainian language from many important spheres of social life. The top of cynicism was the announcement by the owners of radio and television channels of the Ukrainian song, not in format, but in fact its ban. Today's the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u13	Please add one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u14	It's kind of stopped. Mainly because of the bitter lessons of Russian armed aggression, Ukraine lost parts of its territory, where the efforts of the local government, with the silent consent of the central government, resulted in the cleansing of everything Ukrainian and the free operation of the adepts and agents of the Russian world. So I was very pleased to hear the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council to adopt the Ukrainian Language Act as a national law at this session of the Supreme Council. In the face of opposition from the Russian aggression, anything directed against Ukraine’s Ukrainian language, social and national unity should become the norm. It is vital that we bring the truth about Holodomor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u15	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u16	For a whole set of reasons, the problem of the recognition of Holodomor, which has two dimensions, is still unresolved: national and international. According to sociological surveys, there has been a steady increase in the number of citizens surveyed in Ukraine, up to 80 percent who recognize the Holocaust as a crime of genocide. But a significant number, order 15? 20 percent, they don't agree with it or they don't. At the international level, the crime of genocide has been acknowledged by the legislature of more than 20 nations. Despite the importance of international recognition of the Holocaust as a crime of genocide against the Ukrainian nation, it is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u17	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u18	The genocidal nature of Holodomor, their understanding of the real causes and consequences of our national tragedy, will only under these conditions bring the truth and memory of the Holocaust to the morale of Ukrainian society and strengthen political unity in the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u19	Heroim Slava! The head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished participants in the Memorial Meeting of the Victims of the Holocaust. Destroying Ukrainians as a nation is the goal of the organizers of the Holodomor. The final elimination of language, culture, history is all that made us unique in this world. Thus, the scale of the crime is so great that millions of people have been killed. But his victims were also those who survived in 1932-1933, because they were to forget who they were, who their ancestors were, who were to save their descendants for the world, to forget who and what killed them for. Death and oblivion are the goal of Stalin and his supporters for the Ukrainians. It has not been achieved: the Ukrainians have survived and have not forgotten, we exist and we remember, we exist, because we remember, we remember, we remember, we remember, we remember, we remember, we remember. We remember how internal disputes helped our external enemy, and we remember what happens to those who lose their freedom, those who change it to bread, and those who lose it for freedom. We remember how expensive it is to have faith in attractive slogans, when "The Land of Villagers" became "the land of peasants". But we also remember the Ukrainians who went up to the insurgency, who, by their insurgency, caused the communist regime of torture, made it weaker, unable to repeat, somewhere else, the crimes on the scale of the Ice Age in Europe. We remember those Ukrainians who shared the last loaves of bread, who, weakened by hunger, showed to the world their humanity, the power of this humanity. We remember the revenge of a young Ukrainian man in Lviv for the murder of millions of his brothers and sisters, who were shown national dignity. We remember those Ukrainians who remembered what they had been through, even though they paid for it with their will and sometimes even with their lives. We also remember those who did not have the strength to tell the truth even when no one wanted to hear it. This memory is our rematch for millions of people who have been killed. It makes us stronger, for in memory they come to life, standing next to us in our present struggle. Thus, the heirs of the then killers still want to erase this memory. They tried to copy our history textbooks, they closed archives here, spread lies about the Holocaust in the world. But the truth has proved to be stronger, the memory insurmountable, and so has made us. The hands of a child who lit a candle for the first time 20 years ago have now become the hands of a soldier who holds a machine and protects his parents. The eyes, which were then washed with tears from Grandma's story of the 32rd to 33rd years, are now confidently looking at the enemy through a target. A nation united in a moment of veneration of the dead from hunger in the past has today united to protect its future and formed a powerful army. Grief for our dead ancestors gives us the strength to protect ourselves and our offspring. We remember that we are strong!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u21	Thank you. We have representatives of the parliaments of our partner countries present today. And now I have the great pleasure of inviting the head of the Friendship Group "Ukraine-Portugal" of the Portuguese Assembly, Ricardo Beshig. You can also use headphones that need translation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u22	Honorable Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable Members of the Government of Ukraine! Your Honor! Dear friends! On behalf of the Government of Portugal and the President of the Portuguese Republic, I would like to thank you for inviting you to participate in this international forum that commemorates the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine and the act of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. I want to express solidarity and respect from the Parliament and the people of Portugal with the Ukrainians who suffered one of the worst tragedies that occurred in 1932-1933. Many millions died as a result of the economic and ideological program of the Soviet State. And the efforts of the international community were aimed at supporting them, while the Soviet government stopped caring for the lives of its own citizens. This was not only a crime against the Ukrainians but also against humanity. Today, we honor those who died as a result of this barbaric policy, and we also honor those who tried to oppose those actions of the then Soviet government. To remember the history of the political and ideological models that encouraged war, oppression, violence, and deep scars of human consciousness. Today, we ask ourselves how human history, which has so many acts of violence against the defenseless population, has been the result of ideology, has it not been directed or used as a means of retaining power. And that is why we call for respect for international norms and urge governments not to be guided by linguistic, cultural or ethnic principles in their policies. I mean, since 1945, more than 20 million people have been killed in various conflicts around the world in many countries, or around the world. After World War II, most societies gave up political models that led to such events and moved on. or embraced the principle of humanism, human rights. And I want to mention in this connection that in 1945 the United Nations Charter was adopted, in 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in the 1950s, the Declaration on the Prevention of Acts of Genocide. I think these documents have become a guarantee of peace and prosperity. And now we're looking at what the future holds. There are crises in many parts of the world, but we believe that respect for the law, human rights -- they must prevail over the Makiavellian principles of establishing power, retaining power and prevailing national interests. But we can say that now the policy of occupied territories is coming back and this is the result of the activities of those in power. We believe that the use of supernational instruments should be used to promote peace and peace in the world. During the last century, not only brutal acts of Stalin’s authority against the Ukrainian people but also other violations, gross violations, and international law have taken place for many years. Thus, acts and policies directed or which have caused such harm to the Ukrainian people have also been practically directed against international law and the interests of the entire world community. We know that Portugal supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and condemns the transition of Crimea to the Russian Federation and considers it. Portugal considers that this is not compatible with international law. So I have this message to this forum. We do. We are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people in honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor, we are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people for their protection. its independence and territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State, as well as the Ukrainian people's expectations of becoming part of the European community and their adherence to the principles of democracy, the rule of law and prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u23	Thank you for your support. [[Applause]] The next reporter is a great friend of Ukraine, a congressman of the United States, the founder and co-chair of the U.S. Congressional Congressional Congressional Congress, the author of a law establishing a monument for the victims of the Holocaust in Washington, D.C., Sander Levin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u24	Thank you. I prepared my speech. But I want to start by saying that my impression of today's event, they're just increasing my conviction that the Ukrainian people are making an effort to choose democracy. I hope I don't break the time limit in my speech. Many decades ago, when I was in college, I read a book about the Soviet Union. I took this book as an attempt to fully justify the absence of democracy in the Soviet Union and the embrace of authoritarianism in it. What literally jumped from the pages of this book to my consciousness is to try to soften the new subject for me -- hunger in 1932-1933 in Ukraine. The author claimed that the stories of hunger had been greatly exaggerated and that many fewer millions had died than previously suggested. This dangerous, unworthy, and insensitive language has been in my memory for many years. I can say that these reasonings also persecuted me when I, as a congressman, visited Sarajevo, Serbia, and Croatia, met with President Slobodan Milosovic, and then I urged President Clinton not to forget Bosnia. In 1992, my constituency in the election to Congress included an area with a large Ukrainian - American community. My relationship with Ukrainian friends and the discussions of the wide range of issues in which I had been involved for two decades were vital to my work in Congress. As a result, in 1997 the official support group of Ukraine in the United States Congress was formed. This allowed members of Congress from all over the country, who were particularly interested in Ukraine, in the relationship between Ukraine and the United States, to unite and work together to build these relationships. I remember joining the protest at the Embassy of Ukraine in Washington during the Orange Revolution when the then Ukrainian government in Kiev forged a democratic vote. Another memorable experience for me was to join the protest at the Ukrainian Cultural Center in Warren, Michigan, during the Dignity Revolution, the fifth anniversary of which is celebrated in these days. All these concerns, as well as many others that I have shared with the Ukrainian - American community over the past 40 years, have inspired me to present a resolution in Congress that, after a long time, allowed me to build an impressive monument in Washington to the victims of the Holocaust. This touching monument, well located near the Capitol in Washington, D.C., is an important testimony to this terrible stain in world history and a vital experience for the learning of future generations. The famine is a reminder of the value of democracy and the activities of the totalitarian Soviet regime and its suppression of democracy. Now there are fewer barriers to the way of truth and the achievement of the truth by people, their consciousness. Thus, honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor is a sign or an act of fighting against attempts to suppress democracy. As Winston Churchill once said, no one expects democracy to be the most perfect or all-embracing. He said democracy could be very dirty, but its purpose could be much better than any other form of government. Ukraine is now trying to fight or resist aggression, and Holodomor was the weapon used by the dictator against the Ukrainian people. This tragedy should deepen our determination to fight for freedom and democracy and not make dictatorial heroes. Ukraine itself has survived and has a testimony to the totalitarian regime, so overcoming threats to democracy, such as injustice and corruption, remains at the centre of the effort. The United States should support Ukraine in its efforts. It hurt me, but it was important to read the documentary testimony from Annie Applebaum's new book "Red Hunger. Stalin's war against Ukraine." And she told me how Ukrainian peasants were forced to make choices. And there's this very touching quote from "mothers with children in their hands" -- it made the most powerful impression. "I remember seeing one such mother who looked more like a shadow than a man, she stood by the road and held in her hands practically the bones of her child, and instead of sucking the empty breasts of his mother, he sucked his little joints." I don't know how unhappy that woman was. I was similarly concerned when I had to read about what people saw when they went to work, bodies lying along roads, bodies of people who died of hunger. So genocide, unless it is clearly stated that it is genocide, can make possible future acts of genocide. Boris Potapenko of Michigan is a good friend of mine. I'm afraid I don't speak Ukrainian, but I want to testify that we're going to mention the victims of the Holocaust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u25	Heads of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, Yonas Lesis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, ministers, honourable ambassadors, guests, let me read the words of the Head of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania and thank you personally for inviting us to this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we celebrate the 85th anniversary of one of the most tragic pages of the history of the Ukrainian people, the Holodomor. The magnitude of this tragedy, which has resulted in millions of casualties, is incomprehensible. In two years, between 1932 and 1933, up to 10 million people died. Famine did not come from natural disasters, droughts, or crop failures. This was the result of a targeted policy of Stalin’s power. The totalitarian system, by forcing food to be taken away, surrounded by the blockade of the village and even the areas, created conditions for the Ukrainians that they could not survive. Entire generations of Ukrainian farmers have been destroyed, national self-awareness and national identity have been suppressed, and the state has remained divided socially and economically. As early as 2005, Lithuania recognized the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. In October 2018 the United States Senate also unanimously adopted such a resolution. Remember, for crimes against mankind, there is no time limit, so let us support Ukraine’s desire to consolidate this painful historical experience on an international scale. Remembering the planned destruction of Ukrainians by the occupying Soviet authorities — the great Holocaust in Ukraine, we honor the memory of innocent victims, let us preserve history in memory of future generations and remember the warning of the future that independence is not available, must be built, defended and developed. Lithuania and Ukraine are united in a special friendly relationship between countries and people: both nations have been through a long and complex struggle for their freedom and security. We sincerely support you, we want to never lose responsibility for the people of our people, and we want to build a single democratic and prosperous state. I pay you my respects. Head of the Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania Viktoras Prunketis
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u27	Thank you, both Seima and Seima's Head, our great friends from Lithuania. And I, my colleagues, invite the Head of the International Coordinating Committee in the matter of Holodomor, Secretary-General of the World Congress of Ukrainians Stefan Romanov. Mr. Stefan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u28	Praise Jesus Christ! "When society celebrates the tragic dates of its history, it undergoes the cleansing of the truth of the past and the responsibility for the future of the country. We have not yet done all we can to honor millions of people who are starved by their fellow countrymen," wrote Valentina Borisenko in the book The Candle of Memory. More than 300 delegates and guests from 29 countries from the Ukrainian World Congress came to Kiev today before the 85th anniversary. We came here to honor the memory of the millions of victims of the Holocaust and join in the production of further cooperation from the international recognition of the Holocaust by genocide. Introducing at this meeting the Ukrainian World Congress, which is the voice of more than 20 million Ukrainian diaspora, I want to present, as far as possible, our enormous ongoing work on the world's Holocaust and its recognition of genocide at a global level. Despite a total denial by Soviet authorities and journalists such as Duranti in Ukraine by the Ukrainian press Canada and the United States in 32-33, they wrote a series of articles, such as "Moscow Rejects Hunger in Ukraine" ("Freedom", August 20, 33). By the year 33, the U.S. Union had already sent parcels of aid. In 1948, the central administration of the Ukrainian Youth Association in Germany organized its first demonstration. Memorandums on Holodomor in Ukraine, with proclamations, statements, memorial demonstrations, annual public service and church missions, conferences, monuments are only a short list of the enormous work of the Ukrainian diaspora. There is no doubt that step by step such work of our predecessors opened the world’s eyes to the planned action of the Soviet regime, which for the first time characterized genocide by the famous Polish, Jewish origin, Rafael Lemkin. He himself pointed out that it was not just a mass murder, it was an act of genocide, not just of humans, but of cultures and nations as a whole. It's important to remember that in the 1980s, the World Congress of Free Ukrainians collected and documented numerous evidence and memories of the eyewitnesses of the Holocaust, and in the 84th year, it initiated the establishment of the International Commission to investigate the Holocaust in Ukraine for 32-33 years. In the 10th year, this commission, on its final report, made a historical statement that Holodomor was an artificial famine and that Soviet authority should be strongly condemned for this. We have to celebrate the great efforts of the American Ukrainian community to create a U.S. Congressional Commission, which in the year 88 clearly stated that Joseph Stalin and his supporters committed genocide against the Ukrainians in 32-33 years. In 2008-2009, cooperation with the highest authorities in Ukraine, including the implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation, was a significant step forward. In 2008 the World Congress of Ukrainians founded the International Coordinating Committee for the cause of Holodomor, which, in cooperation with the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, conducted an international action called the Ungasima candle, which was launched in Australia and ended in Kiev. It has been successful in 33 countries around the world. And in 2010, the World Congress of Ukrainians organized an international campaign called "The Candle of Prayer" under the slogan "We Can't Put Out the Flash of Memory". This year, on the occasion of the 85th anniversary of the Holocaust, the World Congress of Ukrainians, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Institute of National Memory and the National Museum of the Memorial of the Victims of Holodomor, launched an international event called Lights of Memory, which visited the various cities of the world for 80 days, and tomorrow, here in Kiev. So today, Ukraine’s diaspora are more united with our people than ever before. This year the World Congress of Ukrainians initiated a collection of data from the descendants of the victims of the Holocaust worldwide to share the story of the Holocaust with them in the future. Nevertheless, our work has produced significant results, including resolutions on the recognition of the Holocaust by the genocide of the Ukrainian people at the level of 17 nations in the world. I finish with the words I started with. We haven't done all we can to honor the millions of Dutch-dominated compatriots, so let's continue to work under our motto, "Ukraine remembers, the world recognizes." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u29	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u30	Your Holiness, Your Grace, the Reverend Lords, Reverend Fathers, representatives of churches and religious organizations! Mr. President, Mr. Head, distinguished members of the government, dear guests! After 85 years of tragic events in 1932-1933, the world comes to realize that Stalin and his followers committed a crime of genocide against the Ukrainian people. Hunger was artificial, directed against Ukrainian agriculture and the entire Ukrainian people. In addition to the extermination of peasants, Ukrainian intelligence was destroyed and the policies of the Ukrainian people in all the areas where the Ukrainians lived, and in the Soviet Union, and in Cuba, in the Green Klin, in Kazakhstan, wherever the Ukrainians lived. As representatives of the Ukrainian State, we can say that this part of our debt is owed to innocently murdered millions of our countrymen and ancestors. The world is learning more about and remembering the tragedy of Ukraine. And efforts in this direction must continue. At the same time, Ukrainian historians, historians from other nations, and politicians need to think and work on the answer to other questions. Why in the 32rd and 33rd years did the world and Europe keep quiet about the Holocaust? Although all the states that had their diplomatic representation in the Soviet Union, particularly in the U.S.R., knew of the artificial character of the Great Hunger, just as they understood that Stalin’s goal was the extermination of the Ukrainian nation. Moreover, they had no problem with the magnitude of the tragedy, and their approximate figures ranged between 4 and 7 million victims. At the League of Nations Forum, however, only a few states, such as the Scandinavian countries and the Norwegian Prime Minister Johan Ludwig Movinkel personally, supported the condemnation of the crimes of the Russian Communist regime. The world, including the diplomatic major states: Britain, France, the United States -- were already preparing to join Stalin in the great world, almost a Democrat, sometimes ironically added. Olgerd-Ipolit Bockowski, a brilliant Ukrainian sociologist and head of the Committee of Assistance to the Starving in Czechoslovakia, described the disease of Europe at the time in an article entitled "Invertebrate Europe", in a distinctive Ukrainian voice, the ethical decline of Europe at that time, and the consequences that this has brought to the entire continent. "Fineer," he said, "Europe responded to what happened and how it happened, and now it's interested in where and where it happened. Depending on that, she is either silent or reacting. Crime ceases to be a crime, injustice, oppression, violence — whether committed in Moscow or Berlin — on the one hand or on the other. It's not too late to protest Bolshevik terror. Europe must make up for what has so far been a crime. In protesting Hitler’s dictatorship, he must also protest Stalin’s dictatorship. Only then will her protest not be conjunctural, but she will achieve it."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u31	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u32	".. The moral patho of humanity and the condemnation of violence in general." These words are very relevant. And today in Europe there are a lot of forces trying to justify Russian aggression and Russian crime. Europe’s irreversibility with regard to the Holodomor eventually led to the conspiracy of Hitler and Stalin, who set fire to World War II. And those who justify Kremlin politics are now leading Europe into a new tragedy. And that's why it's such an important task to remind Europe and the whole world of the Ukrainian Holocaust. Remembering the sacrifices of the Holocaust, we should also remember those who tried to help. The Ukrainians outside the Soviet Union opened up a major relief campaign for the hungry brothers and informed the world’s public opinion as they could. At the call of Greek-Catholic Metropolitan Andria Shepticko, Vienna Catholic Cardinal TheodoreInnitzer created the International Interfaith Relief Committee, organized by committees from Europe, the United States and Canada. Let us keep them in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u33	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u34	Because in a bad hour, they gave a beautiful testimony to humanity on high moral and ethical standards, and without them, politics always becomes "fights without rules" and "right of power." Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u35	Heroic glory! The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u36	Praise Jesus Christ! In fact, when those millions of Ukrainians starved to death, did they imagine that 85 years later there would be such an important association in the session room of an independent Ukraine? Did they then think that by starving Ukrainians, the goal of the Stalin regime was to kill Ukraine? And I wanted to thank all those who came from different parts of the world today to share with us the innocent ones and to thank with us those who then helped Ukraine to rise up and light up the world of truth. I am convinced that in order to centralize full power in Stalin's hands, it was necessary to destroy the second Soviet republic, and so to destroy Ukrainian agriculture, Ukrainian intelligence, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history in the sense of the people, to destroy Ukraine as such. The calculation was very simple and very primitive: there is no people, and so there is no country, and as a result there is no problem. Such a policy in the classical sense of the word means genocide. These are the words and the understanding of the greatest crime in the 20th century against Ukraine in the book described James Mays, a book called "Your Dead Chosen Me." And we thank James Mace for being the author of the newspaper "Day," for revealing the truth to the world, for learning Ukrainian. And there are so many who have come. who fell in love with Ukraine and understood the tragedy of our people, but in power, not in grief, but in the power of our nation. And so, colleagues, today I would like to say to others, don't be afraid. Those nations of the world that have not yet recognized the Holocaust as genocide, and some of them are afraid to do so because they do not want to spoil their relationship with the Kremlin, I urge you as in the Bible: do not be afraid, for the truth of this world is no more necessary than the truth that is needed for us. Indeed, the most important confession and condemnation of genocide is a safeguard for its recurrence in the future, and Russia’s successor to the Soviet Union did not recognize the Holocaust as genocide by concealing key documents against the crime of communism. And today, colleagues, when we mention here, we say we're strong. Yes, Ukraine is now opposed to the Kremlin, the Ukrainian army is one of the most powerful in Europe. We're cutting back, we've become a European security contractor. And so, colleagues, I would like to say that Ukraine has endured and endures, thanks to your support in particular. And that's why I believe that one day in Red Square, just like in 1991, when the empire of evil ended, there was a Ukrainian flag in Moscow, one day instead of buried Lenin, this idol of Satanism, and so on, there's going to be a monument in Moscow to the victims of the Holocaust, because it's going to be a strong Ukraine. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine! We believe that one day those millions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u37	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u38	That the millions who have died from heaven are helping us not only to see Ukraine strong, but also to see justice in Russia through the successful Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u39	Thank you. And thank you, Mrs. Hanni, as an inspiration to our meeting today. Thank you, Mrs. Anna. And I invite you to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u40	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a famine. "The Harvest of Scorbotti." Many people in this room today have talked about this terrible event in the history of Ukraine, in the history of all mankind. The Holy Patriarch Philaret shared memories of his childhood in Donbas. Like him, I was born and raised on Donbasa. I am sure that many people in and outside this room have relatives who have not survived the genocide, and so we must not only keep in mind this truth, but we must bring it to everyone in and out of the country. I want to. Congressman Levin quoted documentary testimony from one of the recently published books. I also want to read the testimony of the Holocaust in the city of Anakiyeva. A city that is now in an area that is not controlled by Ukrainian authorities. These are memories from a book called "Freedom and Terror in Donbassa." "There's a woman under the fence. Dead. We're on our way. And there's a baby next to her. And the woman is dead and the child is alive. And it's like that, up to one year. And it got my mother's breasts out and sucked. My mother's dead. So my brother and I stood there crying. And here comes the ambulance that picks these corpses. And they went there all the time because there were so many bodies lying there. And they grab, and then they jump two men up there, by the legs of that woman up there, that kid where the dead are lying. They took a name and a woman and a child to the cemetery." Thousands of such testimony, from which tears flow! But when we talk about a terrible tragedy, we also have to say that tragedies are not random or selective. When we think of the tragedy of Ukraine, we must also remember that during the famine, many of the national minorities — Germans, Poles, Bulgarians, Jews, many of those who also lived in Donbassa — were killed. We have to mention this because Ukraine is diverse, but Ukraine must be the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u41	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u42	who admitted her to her Fatherland. And at the end of this book there are these words, I want to quote them as well. "Stalinian terror was the execution of consciousness. Donbas was a refuge for all who fled the law. And that's why Stalin had every reason to think that everything could go out there. The dictator terrorized Donbas because this region symbolized freedom." Now I'm terrorizing all of Ukraine because Ukraine symbolizes freedom. I think that's the kind of lesson we need to learn. And learning lessons means that we are all responsible for Ukraine being free to breathe in Ukraine not only now but also in the future. I want to thank all our foreign guests for their support and solidarity with Ukraine in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u43	Thank you. We invite the co-chair of the civil committee to honor the memory of the victims of Holodomor-genocide in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, Ivan Vasjunik. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u44	Remarkable members of the sitting! On November 28, 2006, an event took place in this Hall, which is in keeping with the proclamation of the Ukrainian Independence Act. After the restoration of independence, Ukraine lost many fronts: it gave way to a spiritual one – until then our divided church, gave up information space, entered the economic cabal, squeezing the gas needle of Russia. And it's only after the Dignity Revolution that we're gradually restoring positions. But the recognition by the Ukrainian Parliament of the Holodomor of 1932-1933 by the genocide of the Ukrainian people marked whether or not our only victory at that time in the hybrid war of the Putinian Russia against Ukraine. It was a victory over fear, as though it were not against our people's fear, that the Kremlin would try to cross our memory and warn other nations, that they would not hide from the national memory at that time, and that our own statesmen would not be afraid of the word "genocide" by officials and partyists. Before the vote, I met with the deputies in the hall’s towers. A member of the faction of the region with tears in his eyes said that Holodomor had killed almost his entire family, but he could not go against the faction's decision and would not vote on the bill. How much fear and treachery are still in this room when it comes to the issues of war and peace, the occupation by Russia of Ukrainian territories, and more than that. Why? Maybe it's because after the Dignity Revolution, we didn't have a picture of the political class. [[Congrats]] at least by the sign of a vote in favour of dictatorial laws on January 14, 2014. Since then, famine has entered the world’s dictionary, the fabric of human memory. In these days the memory of the victims of Holodomor honors the Ukrainian people, honors people and governments around the world. The scale of memory is us. The extent of memory can be small -- that's how the people will be, and the scale of memory can be eternal. History has come to the point that the scale of memory -- one and a half more minutes, please -- of Holodomor is for us, Ukrainian citizens, the standard and national integrity of human beings. The restored memory of the past was an important factor in the creation of a new Ukrainian nation. This is not just a memory of our past, it is a way to understand our trials today and to create our future. But the preservation of memory and the building up of the Ukrainian State require great effort, so for the time being, we will enjoy and be at peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u45	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u46	We need to learn to complete our national affairs. I urge you to resume full - scale work on the National Book of Memory. We must finally pass a law establishing criminal responsibility for denying the Holocaust. The megatask of the Ukrainian and the world's public is the organization of a court of communism. Ukraine must become the initiator and the center of its implementation, and no one will do that for us. And to the end. In 2010, Januković’s regime halted the building of the Holodomor Memorial Complex. Two years ago, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, supported the appeal of the public committee and the World Congress of Ukrainians to rebuild the building, and already in April 2018, Prime Minister Vladimir Groisman put the capsule into construction, and First Vice-Prime Minister Stepan Kubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u48	The relevant government committee has taken on a leading role in the implementation of the project. We've been through some very important changes, swings. (I'll be done in half a minute.) A joint team of Ukrainian and Polish architects developed a project by a museum. Starting Saturday, you can read about this project in the Memorial Hall. It symbolizes the truth that breaks through many years of bans.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u49	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u50	In the world, such museums build state and business partnerships. The World Congress of Ukrainians, the Civil Committee and the Memorial set up the International Charity Foundation for the Development of the Memorial. The fundraiser began. I think entrepreneurs and Ukrainian politicians will become the first contributors to this fund. Next, each Ukrainian family can light its symbolic candle in memory of the more than 7 million Ukrainians who have been killed during these years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u51	Thank you. And now the closing statement by the Ukrainian National MP, the head of the working group for the preparation and holding of Victor Yelensky's meeting, who was the organizer of the event with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u52	Your Holiness, Your Grace, Your Holiness, Fathers! Our honourable ambassadors, ministers, representatives of the parliaments of the world! Thank you for being with us today. I can look for hours at pictures of Ukrainian agriculture taken before the world's worst tragedy of agriculture. The beautiful, proud faces, the embroidery, the necklace, the hands worked, the children strung on their knees, the whole of Atlantis, the whole world is looking at us, Atlantis, which will soon go into the ocean of tears and blood. These people were killed and prevented from being rescued, and those who had escaped were not allowed to mourn their murderers. Under the stone crevices that were erected to honor murderers and executioners, surviving whispers told children and grandchildren the terrible story of this tragedy. And the fourth generation has been plagued by the question, How could this happen, and why did this happen? This is a question that has hit hearts and brains and intellectuals with the world’s name, philosophers, historians, and people of all ages who have been unable to live peacefully the mortal pain of starvation. One of them, a very old man, once told me how his father starved to death under Borispol in the year 33. On the threshold of death, Father kept coming back to the 20th year, 1920. To the Borispol Rebellion, which exploded in Borispol and in nearby villages against the Chequests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u53	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u54	And against the entourages. In the churches, men were beaten and called on to engage in arms. "I didn't go,--remembered dying,--in me had just given birth a wife, I couldn't. If I had left, I would have died as a warrior, not a stink of hunger right now," he said. "And if all those who stayed in the houses then went away, we wouldn't know such torments now." This suffering person, who stood on the threshold of eternity 85 years ago, would have had a warning right if we were then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u55	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u56	If only we were strong. The right to be single and strong, to be a state of Ukraine, is given a gift. She paid full and paid for it. Eternal glory to the fallen! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u57	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m1.u58	The massive tragedy of Holodomor, 85 years ago, is forever embedded in the history and memory of the Ukrainian people. Ukrainian society, politicians, all of us must learn deeply the tragic lessons of our history so that they will never happen again. Looking back on the disaster of Holodomor, I ask everyone tomorrow on Saturday, November 24th, to remember the victims of the famine at 16 o’clock in Kiev’s time to light the candles of memory and to honor all the Ukrainians who were destroyed by the totalitarian communist colonial regime. I want to thank all those who participated in our meeting, the national deputies, the members of the government, the foreign guests, the fathers. And, dear colleagues, I want to assure you that our memory of these events should give us the strength to keep this tragedy from ever happening again. A meeting dedicated to honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, declared closed. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
