ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please enable the registration system. [[10:03:07]] 329 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Mr. Sergei, welcome! [[Applause]] And I'll remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes for the national MPs to make proposals, statements and messages. And I'm asking the National MPs to record the performance. Please hold the recording. Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich is invited to attend. Gives the floor to Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency. Poltation. As a Marjorie MP, he worked practically all August in the district. And one of the main problems that we have today is the problem of roads. If the roads of international, national and regional importance are more or less repaired, the roads of territorial importance are in the air. Three of these roads in my district were transferred to the balance sheet without a single penny of funding. This is road T-1706 Zynkow-Gajdach, T-1725 Gadjak-Comishna-Mirgorod, T-1718 Dikankka-Szetylovka. Now we've found a small resource in the area to at least sort of put these roads in order and make them travel, but that doesn't solve the issue in a complex way. Therefore, on January 1, 2019, it is imperative that money be made available for repairs to the Poltava region. With regard to public roads that have moved to the balance sheet of district government administrations, they, like public roads, are financed by the cost of a road fund at 35 to the utility station, 60 to the state. Therefore, it is necessary to anticipate in the 2019 budget that the fullness of the road fund should be 75 percent of the excise duty on oil products, not 50 percent, as it is now. A larger amount will go to repair the utility roads. I want to say that no reform will work without quality roads — neither education reform nor medical reform. Like taking a sick person to a hospital district when there's no road, like the Mirgrod-Cincipality road that I've talked about before. How can you take a child or children to a support facility when there are no roads? There are many examples. For example, the Homutec, the support facility, there is no road to the Homutec. Zynkovsky district, the Widow-Zenk road is gone. And so many examples. I'm not talking about the lack of communication between the district centers and the district center, it's Gaddach-Zyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy. It is therefore essential to provide for both communal and territorial roads to be repaired. Of course we're doing something, but that's very, very little. Another huge problem that exists today is the breakdown of tender procedures. What are we talking about? Nonconformity companies are involved in the tenders, not in repairing roads, but in delaying and disrupting the process. Now the Antimonopoly Committee is crawling with complaints from such companies all over the country. And that's why the robots are blocked. These companies are blocking these jobs. So many examples, this is the Poltava region, this is the Dnipropetrov region, for example, the district of my colleague, Andria Shipka, Nicopol. So I'm addressing the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Jury Terentiev, demanding that we take this matter under personal control and finally unlock the repairs of the roads of all categories throughout the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Briginian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we have recently heard a great deal about the ecological catastrophe that has taken place at the border with the occupied Crimea. And I would very much like to know more about this catastrophe. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian media talk very little about the situation that happened, and I would very much like that on Friday, when we have a "government hour" so that the minister of ecology can tell us about the situation that happened in Crimea, because the environmental disaster that is taking place in Ukrainian territory, regardless of whether the territory is occupied or unoccupied, cannot stand outside, away from our concerns and our interests. So again, I ask that, as my deputy's appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers on Friday to report on the situation that is taking place, including in the Hersonian region, regarding the environmental disaster at the border between the occupied Crimea and the Hersonian region. The second thing I'd like to say. Yesterday, we all witnessed a number of our distinguished colleagues on this rostrum who spoke about the Russian propaganda channels with which to end them. Among those who spoke on this rostrum in support of the fight against propagandists were respected colleagues from the Fatherland faction. But unfortunately, I was surprised to see these same colleagues tonight on the NewsOne channel, which is known to be officially controlled by Portnow. I was very surprised at the situation. I hope colleagues will join us in blocking this channel by their absence. I urge you as well as the representatives of our faction not to go to this channel. One more question. Yesterday, we heard that relatives of Julius Volodymyryn often fly to Moscow. Hopefully that's not true, and hopefully we'll get a formal denial of the faction that it's impossible and it's never been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u5	Thank you. I'll put my word on the line. Please. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kota, "Peter Prashenko's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Andrew Keith, Stryshtyn, Jewish, Strike Group. I want to remind everyone that almost a year ago, we will soon arrive a year ago, in Lviv there was a outgoing meeting of the Ukrainian agrarian committee, at which we decided to set up a forest fund in Ukraine and a corresponding bill to preserve and strengthen forest protection. Unfortunately, of the four bills 8238, 8239, 8240, and 8246, only Bill 8238 has been passed. Bills relating to the Committee on Budgets have not been considered and bills relating to the Tax Committee have not been considered. I understand how acute the forest situation is right now. Maybe you don't notice and you don't see the dry forest trees in Žitomirsk, in Polissa, in Carpathians, you don't see the absence of forests and soil erosion in the south of Ukraine, and you don't understand how serious this can turn out to be, and what an ecological disaster it can turn out to be for Ukraine at all, but I think that idleness in this case is actually equal to crime. So I think we need to look at these changes quickly that we need in the Tax Code. On the tax committee, on the budget committee. At that session, the adoption of a package of bills that will allow the Forest Farms Fund to work will allow for the redistribution of funds and the restoration of forests, especially in the southern part of Ukraine. I want to emphasize that forests are our future, our lungs are our children. And I very much ask that everyone, knowingly and seriously, address this issue. Once again, I would like to ask the Committee on Budgets to consider these two issues immediately. And I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to include them in the agenda so that we can end the question of creating a forest fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u7	Thank you. I'm inviting you to the words of the Shurma People's Deputy, right? Who will act? I invite you to speak to the People’s Deputy Mantis. Shipko and Galchenko were given the word, and it took six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Yesterday a meeting of the Health Committee took place, and most of the national deputies decided to come forward today with a statement of excruciating injustice, a total of cynical actions by the heads of the Ministry of Health, claiming to be a crime. Yesterday the national deputies voted in favour: Oleg Musei, Andrew Shipko, Sergei Melniczuk, Mr. Kirichenko, Billowol, Shipko, Bahechev, the Mantis, and Igor Shurma. For the third week in a row under the walls of the Ministry of Health, there is an untimely protest against those who suffer from cancer. Parents of oncological children, their mothers, and their parents require the Ministry of Health to solve their problems and rescue their children, demanding that their children be sent abroad. At the same time, the Ministry of Health did not meet with patients; it did not solve the problem in three weeks. People continue, people yesterday came under the walls of Parliament and to the Health Committee with a request and appeal to all the national MPs to give them one chance at life. People don't understand why they have to wait for months to deal with their cases with the appropriate ILO commission to charge them and turn them in for treatment abroad, why don't they have any answers, whether they've been taken into account by the Ministry of Health, or whether they'll be paid for their treatment or not? Why do the sick die without waiting for the aid guaranteed by the State? Since 2016, 38 Ukrainians have died without waiting for the funds and meetings of the appropriate commission. The Ministry of Health’s response to these questions did not come to us or to representatives of the patient’s organizations. As members of the Health Committee, we are outraged by the cynicism and inaction of the officials of the WHO in solving the issues that affect the lives and health of the people. Two years ago, the Health Committee initiated a review and analysis of the work of the Ministry of Health in treating people abroad, and there is a report of the Court of Auditors. In two years none of the requirements of the Court of Auditors have been met. Things got worse, not better. Despite the Ministry of Finance’s clarification on the possibility of using the 112 million dollars budgeted by the Ministry of Health, which according to current legislation were to be redistributed and aimed at saving the lives of those who are ill, for whom there is no chance of survival in Ukraine. In order to implement this transplant pilot project, which the MoH cannot implement this year, no measures have been taken by the Ministry’s management to redistribute these expenses to treatment abroad. The MOH does not have information about the remaining funds in the accounts. Today, there are Ukrainian state funds in Belarus, and patients cannot be sent there because the Ministry has failed to channel these funds according to needs. MOH does not take effective measures to develop an existing medical and clinical base in Ukraine for the transplantation of bone marrow organs, which would significantly reduce costs. Only in Belarus last year did we pay $7 million for those. For those operations that could have been performed in Ukraine. The only document missing, developed by the Ministry, is the order of cross-section by donor cells in the border of Ukraine. At the same cost in Ukraine, three times as many operations could be done. We wouldn't have had a turn, we wouldn't have children who were sick and we wouldn't have adults who were sick. We, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Health Committee, consider the management of the Ministry of Health to be criminal and demand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine be released from office: the acting Minister of Health of Uljana Suprun and Deputy Minister Alexander Linchevski, responsible for this direction of work, for the inaction and inability to arrange for the proper performance of their duties and to take steps to bring them to justice, to ensure the restoration of the work of the Children's Oncohematology Centre, the transplantation of the Bone Brain of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT Ukraine and the renewal of the positions of dismissed professionals. Provide funding for a budget program for the treatment of citizens abroad according to the real need and redistribute the funds available in the accounts and save the lives of those who have spent three weeks under the Ministry of Health. We require the government to take urgent steps to ensure that Ukraine has a transplant that will allow us to eliminate all the queues that will allow us in Ukraine to rescue our children and patients. A proper request for crimes committed by officials against those who are ill, including children, will be addressed by the committee to the National Police of Ukraine. Thank you all for your attention, thank you to the members of the Health Committee, who, regardless of their political preferences, the political forces for today stand for one single value: the preservation of Ukraine's human potential. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u9	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kulichenko. Ah, may I have the floor of the People's Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On the background of daily arrests, searches in the houses of Crimea Tatars and Ukrainians in the temporarily occupied Crimea, new repressions already being carried out against women (Yesterday, the mother and daughter of Zar and Ryan Kulametov, as well as the head of their family Zekki Kulametov, were arrested) there is an ecological catastrophe on Crimean soil in areas belonging to the Krymsky Titan factory. These lands are on both sides of the administrative line temporarily established as a result of the Russian occupation of Crimea. On both sides of the administrative line, tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens live. Air and soil measurements on the part of mainland Ukraine so far show acceptable standards. But there is a question about how the situation will continue. In the temporarily occupied Crimea from yesterday, the evacuation of children from the city of Armenia and other populated sites belonging to the Krymsk Titan factory began. The problem is that there is absolutely no confidence in the information provided by the Russian occupation authorities. Some experts believe that the cause of the ecological disaster that began on the Crimean Peninsula may be the loss of control by the Russian army over the weapons of poisoning that they can store in the Crimean Titan factory. In this situation, it would be considered necessary to refer the Ukrainian State, including the Ministry of Defense, to the Chemical Weapons Organization to monitor the situation in the area around the Krymian Titan factory. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the actions and those that are going to be carried out in order to eliminate the consequences of this disaster are now planned to be conducted by a water supply from the Gulf of Carcintine. In Crimea, an ecocidal is being carried out by Russia. This is all about forcing Ukrainian citizens to leave their lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u11	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u12	The Ukrainian State must do everything in this situation to stop the activity, to create conditions for the complete cessation of the activities of the Crimean Titan. It's a disgrace and a shame to all of us that, in this situation, an almenite from Ukrainian territory, from the Žitomir region, is going to the Turkish ports, and from there is going back to Crimea. And this almenite.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u14	Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriot Union - UKROP. I thank the People's Deputy Dmitri Dobrodomov, the leader of the People's Control for the right to speak out of the rostrum on a matter that concerns all society and this entire hall. Colleagues, last November, as you know, there was a sensation in this session room, without exaggeration. You and I adopted a draft of the new Electoral Code on the first reading. It was really a surprise, pleasant to the Ukrainians, but it was extremely unpleasant for the active authorities. The codex should introduce a proportional system, open regional election lists in parliamentary races. The government is afraid of it as if it were a fire, because it would be possible to forget about the hand parliament forever, because in the Supreme Council it would be possible to pass independent, real and educated patriots with fresh ideas who proved their particulars worthy of it, not "money bags", who would buy passable seats on the electoral lists. The current authorities will do their utmost to ensure that the 2019 parliamentary elections are held under the law of Yanukovic. For the President and the ruling parties, it's the only chance to win the election and preserve themselves in power. Clearly, then, the authorities will not give up without a fight. Even if the failed MPs are not ordered to crash the bill from above, even if they are not motivated to vote in a material way, the new Electoral Code will still be distorted by rights. We understand that through open lists in Parliament, virtually all existing interests in Ukraine will be represented. Intraparty competition is in place, as it is possible to get to the top of the party lists only through dedicated and hard work for the benefit of the people, not the size of a wallet. Parties will be required to represent in all regions, since a party that cannot work everywhere is unable to protect the interests of all Ukrainians. The new Electoral Code is what the public wants. For his approval, he would be rallying and rallying in various regions of Ukraine. The appeal for support of the Code for Initiatives of our U.K.R.P. Party has already been approved by dozens of councils of different levels, including district councils. I am convinced, colleagues, that tomorrow we should, most of us, the progressive part of Parliament, the 6th number under the parliamentary wall to come to the planned all-U.S. campaign for electoral reform to say, "No, the election under the law of Yanukovic!" UKROP is among the organizers of this campaign and calls on all political parties that want to break the system of corruption and pressure in Ukraine to come and support open lists. Dear colleagues, we should finally think not of ourselves, not of our future, but of the whole country. As long as they don't. We're ruled by kleptocrats who bought jobs, they'll never get out, Ukraine, from a locked circle of miserable life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Korchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u16	Praise Jesus Christ! I'm addressing you as the head of the National Children's Hospital's Board of Trustees and Volunteers. Now that part of the Supreme Health Council Committee, which most of them spoke out of the rostrum and behind them, deconstructed society, and unfortunately, the corrupt doctors who were with them, OHMATDIT, said that, as if in OHMATDIT, there were closed wards that were treated in oncohematology. It's a complete lie. All departments are in full-time operation. Of the 103 employees in the four wards that treat cancer and haematological children, 97 are currently working. Even with those people who want to, the average medical staff and the six doctors, to leave OHMADIT, that's going to be 93 instead of 103 right now. These people are all working, except for two supervisors, six doctors, and four nurses — that is, in this case, the laboratories — in their places, performing their duties daily. No compartment is closed. The lab's working. Yeah, it's not gonna be easy. Because, unfortunately, lab workers, who are very professional and honest managers and employees, are blackmailed. They're blackmailing this document. Mrs. Donska, I want to show you. Because of the laboratory, 146 vials of 10,000 bracelets of Neulastim were written off for a million four hundred in two days. This is a drug that would provide 146 cancerous children with a living cell factor, a factor in the growth of living cells. That's 146 blocks. And they're being blackmailed by that number. Here is Mrs. Donsky's signature, which, unfortunately, is now being protected by the Mantis and unfortunately is protecting the committee. This is the number of the State Audit Service. When they calculated how much this team of corrupt doctors spent government and official charity money on one transplant, it's the last 16 transplants. For one transplant, donors paid 3 million, or 120,000, euros! Europe, Poland takes less than these "honorable" doctors have allowed themselves in "OHMATDIT." At the same time, when the poor parents of our children were buying a physique that was in the warehouse, the albumin that was in the warehouse. They were issued with drug lists, 17-18 positions, at least 12 of which were in stock at this point. They did not even feel ashamed to hide these drugs in their offices. When the Advisory Commission of the MoH came in, they found advanced drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u17	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u18	Thank you. They found expired drugs right in the cabinets, they were medicines purchased by their parents, they didn't go through any warehouses. I'm asking you very much to help the OHMATDl National Hospital with your solidarity. Please come to the National Hospital OHMATDIT, we'll show you everything. The hospital is changing. We want to teach young doctors and young nurses, laboratories to European standards. We're going to do a non-family transplant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u19	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Lušnjak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u20	Dear Ukrainian people, Madam Chairman, fellow national MPs! Mikola Lušnjak, 166 district, strike group, block of Petra Prashenka. The economy of the state of Ukraine consists of many parts: metallurgy, agriculture, maintenance, small, large enterprises that are made up of puzzles into a state called Ukraine, which is now a major player in the international arena. But when there are government officials in Ukraine, such as the PAT Operations Director "Urzalzliznica" Jerómin Vjačeslav Volodymyrovich, who announced the closure of railway stations throughout Ukraine. Where are the elevators? The investor invested money, developed an agro-industrial complex, a metallurgy, and decided to shut down these railway stations. And this puzzle of the economy of Ukraine to break up. I declare: the city of Butac, the town of Monastirs, the budget-making enterprises, the Pat "Korrowska Career", the DP "Kovalivska Spitzadvod", the "Bucagrohlibprom" last year invested in their logistics for many millions of dollars. There was an agreement with the manager, the head of the cruiser government, that there would be a rapid shipment at the station, that is, routes that would unload the grain. And the manager held back his word, the routes went, the grain was unloaded, and Pat "Carry Career" started unloading on the metallurgical factories of their production, and D.D. "Ukrispirt" started unloading the product for export. This year, however, the leadership led by Jeromin Vjacheslav Volodymyrovic decided that it was not appropriate for the Butch station to unload routes to ports, others to do so and to cancel the full shipping of the stations. For the sake of understanding. Buchagrohlibprom is the main taxpayer in the region, DP Kovalivska Spirtzavod pays $600 million in local budgets, DP "Korsovski koreer", and 30 percent of the Monastery region today is the budget manager of these companies. And thanks to the decisions made by Jeromin Viacheslav Volodymyrovich, we are breaking the Ukrainian economy today. Last year we reduced the land tax for Pat's Cruise Station, which was supposed to modernize our businesses. Instead, they started effectively destroying our Ukrainian economy. I appeal to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine to hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u21	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u22	To conduct a service investigation into the position of head Jeromin Viacheslav Volodymyrovich and to remove him from office for the period of investigation. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u23	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u24	Fellow citizens of Ukraine, first of all, I am addressing you, because this hall doesn't want to hear us, in principle, it doesn't hear us. There are so many expressions about the destruction of the Ukrainian economy, and the Ukrainian economy is being destroyed immediately for internal, external enemies, the fifth column. And who is destroying it? Recall the events of the 14th year when the treaty was signed, the coalition agreement between the factions, except for the Opposition Block, all five factions signed the treaty, establishing the main positions of the country's development. Already on the threshold of 2018. What do we have? And we have a broken economy in Ukraine because the path that was chosen at first is probably wrong, because that policy and those quasi-reforms that were carried out by all factions and then the remaining factions, the largest two factions, are wrong. Now I want to focus on the citizens of Ukraine, maybe here these numbers that I'm going to say are very interesting. You may find it very difficult to listen to Ukrainian citizens, but these figures are the result of a policy that will reflect on you in the future that will affect your property. In particular, I want to point out that there's no reference to the fact that the amount of government debt has already exceeded 2 trillion dollars. Two trillion dollars is more than 75 percent of the gross domestic product. Here, Mr. Groissman spoke on the grounds that it was not his government that took those debts and accordingly blamed the predecessors, and accordingly he was making a titanic effort to level the situation. But the question is, why did the adoption of the budget for this year increase to 100 billion dollars, the national and state-guaranteed debt? Does anyone force him to do so? So I want to point out that every year we spend more than 320 billion dollars to pay off both the loan body and the interest on the loan. It's worth about $10 billion, our budget is $35 billion. A third, 30 percent of the government budget, goes to public debt. Next. In 2019-2020, we owe more than $20 billion. Since 2019, we will be obliged to pay more than $1 billion for government derivatives, in addition to the sums of $10-12 billion. This is Mrs. Jaresko and Yatzenyuk, which is very few people are talking about. Accordingly, all policies of the State are designed to meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. And as a result, dear Ukrainian citizens, the result is an inconsolable increase in gas prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u25	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u26	It's very embarrassing news, it's very painful for me, because we realize that the state to which the citizens of Ukraine proved themselves, the state of poverty does not allow us to bear this additional burden. Unfortunately, however, this authority can do nothing but live in debt and raise tariffs to meet IMF requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u27	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak on the line from the "Fatherland" faction. Then please, Mrs. Mantis, a replica. A minute for a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, my last name was mentioned in connection with corruption. I would like to say that, unfortunately, society is being manipulated today. And what's going on is completely criminal under the leadership and cover-up of the Ministry of Health at OHMATDIT is a crime in front of the state. This crime against the State must be brought to an end, and those who take advantage of it today must be held criminally accountable. That's why I'm asking Mr. Kubov, Mr. Groysman, to create a commission to verify all the facts of corruption related to the work of OHMATDIT and those leaders who are unjustifiably releasing doctors, accusing them of the absence of drugs that are not available because international organizations are starting to place them in 18 months, and on the quarantine zone millions of dollars are being kept those drugs that will never be used that will be thrown into the trash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u29	Thank you. I invite you to the word of National Deputy Krulka, who has the right to a replica, and also has the consent of two factions on. an application for a recess, which is requested to be replaced by a statement. So the general statement is 4 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u30	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In this room today and yesterday, these pesos who were given the Dark Ones from the Bank ran out to spread absolute lies against Julia Timoshenko and her family. I think the presidential campaign that just started is over the red lines. No one went down to speculate on children and families during an electoral campaign, without any evidence of outright lies. Do you want us to have the same rhetoric? You want us to talk about a daughter-in-law who is a citizen of Russia -- about the daughter-in-law of Peter Poroshenko, or about the Swats who are Russian citizens, or about a son who, in a London school with the inscription "Russia" and the coat of arms, comes up with a two-headed eagle, walks with the children of the oligarchs, takes pictures? Is this supposed to be an election campaign? You'll get it, my friends! But you have to understand that this is low, and this is a disgrace! It's already below any plentuse! But I don't even want to talk to you about it, I'd like to go to my fellow journalists. Dear friends, remember how freedom of speech was repeatedly destroyed in Ukraine! It's the same thing now: you're being divorced, you're being used. Yesterday this false information for money was distributed to all the websites, to all the channels. Some have refused, and some journalists, and I'm going to talk about it separately, not because of the experts who paid for the dungeons, but because they personally started spreading this lie on the TV channels. Where is your solidarity? Where's your journalistic honor? Remember this, or we will have no freedom of speech and no one will protect you. And that was on that day, when instead of protecting your colleague Sedlecka, who was given the wire yesterday, all of her records were sanctioned, all the phones that warm up corruption and expose it show corruption, instead you spread lies against Julia Timoshenko's family. So I would like to say one key thing today. Dear friends, that's how we can play, and that's how we can invade the country. But the dirtiest thing in all of this history is that the channel that was distributed yesterday is purchased from Janukovic's son in all sanctions, international sanctions, Ukrainian sanctions. And by whom? It's from Mr. Dustenk. And it's this channel today that's engaged in an informational, dirty attack. You're going to ask us, "Fatherland," will we or won't we go to the canals? So I want to tell you that we're going to go to the canals, even on this channel that's bought into Janukovich's son to go around all the international sanctions, and now he's serving as an information tool to kill political opponents, because we don't have oligarchs in Fatherland and we don't have our channels to go to. Therefore, we will bring the truth to all the methods and possibilities that exist. And this channel, including I would like to say, works in the interests of the Kremlin and spreads through the Russian adepts that work there, procremlical information, yes, in an obfuscated form, but it exists there. So you know what? Come on, I'm talking to everybody here because there are presidential candidates here, so let's stop speculating on the topics that they're discussing. Breaking up Ukraine, let's stop lying against each other and against each other, the main thing is against children and family members, because it's low and it's unacceptable. And to those who distribute it, to those dogs, it's a shame and you'll regret it. Because you're defectors from Fatherland, and now you've gone there and you're serving as a new host.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u31	Thank you. And I invite you now, we still have two applications. A statement from two factions is asked to be replaced by a statement from the BPP and the People's Front, to be replaced by a speech by the Burbak People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, welcome. At the end of July in Chernobyl, city council deputies removed the city’s elected head, Alexia Kaspruk, who was elected by the community. I have repeatedly warned from this rostrum that Janukovich’s regionalities in the Cherniewec City Council are preparing their rematch. Repeatedly from this rostrum, I called for a meeting and a decree to be passed and dissolved by the Montenegrin City Council. Now we have a turn of the regionals at a Ukrainian district center in the west of Ukraine, and I'm stressing in the west of Ukraine. I would like to point out that Mayor Alexia Kastruka chose an absolute majority of voters, and they took out 29 deputies who received a total of less than twice the votes. And it wasn't because the electorate demanded it, but because the city's head, Alexei Kaspruk, was blocking the property of the community and was not giving in to the city's salesmen, controlled by the oligarch Firtash. Now they are also building an organizational network for Medvedchuk in Cherniv. The same gang of Firtas-Borissov in the same way, at the age of 11, took away the blacks of the legally elected city's head, Mikola Fedoruk. He's a fellow national MP, he'll tell you. And then they took down the city and the utility property. For example, the gasogine was donated at more than twenty-three million dollars to the private company Chernivziobgas, because it was controlled by the gas oligarch Firtash and the head of the Crushing Company of the time Borisov. By the way, the Henprocurator's investigation has now been recognized as a member of the criminal group Yanukovich of the same Borisov. I want to remind you, it was recently prescribed in the same apartment as Vasile Sold, who became the next secretary. Now they're going back to counterattack, these regions that want to return the rematch. It's a coup d'état in local self-government, it's the formation of a powerful network of national channels to broadcast hostile propaganda. With the Kremlin, they're rolling all the way up here in our backs. What city is next on this list? What head chosen by the people will be removed from office by tens of the same sellers? Lviv? Kiev? What other cities are waiting for this? By the way, along with the former regions of the Montenegrin City Council, some representatives of the factions of the democratic camp, represented here, in Parliament, are cooperating and voting. I have in my hands the appeal, that's part of it, to the head of Parliament and the national MPs from the nuns who don't want to accept what they're saying, they're ignoring their choices. People are demanding the release of land and new elections. Elections and city council heads and deputies. They demand that the Black City Council be freed from the Firtash gang. The Montenegrins refer to the Ukrainian Parliament as a higher legislature for protection not only of their will but also of the city and its inhabitants from the theft of property. Parliament has been registered for over a year with the Order for the dissolution of the Montenegrin City Council. Together with the Chernivs, we demand that it be put to the vote and dissolved by the city council, which is actually serving Furtash and Medvedchuku. Let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u33	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u34	That is how the higher legislative body of Ukraine should react to a quiet rematch in one separate district center. By the way, this is where the community handed over the newspaper. Look, these are 29 salesmen who took off the legally elected city head Alexia Kaspruk. And we must restore justice in the Black people. The elections in Chernobyl! Get out of here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u35	Thank you. We still have statements from factions. Please, from two factions, the statement that they are asking for a recess, which is requested to be replaced by a speech by the national deputy, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues and MPs, many of you have rested during your summer vacations and have apparently failed to appeal to the very important decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which, on behalf of one of Ukraine’s citizens, has recognized as a violation of human rights, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. This ruling by the European Court of Justice is in fact an argument for authority to start selling land in Ukraine, which they refer to as a land market. For power, for international glytes and latifundists, Ukrainian land is the most desirable commodity that is worth nothing today. For them it is a commodity, and for us it is a land covered with the blood of our ancestors; for us it is a land to feed the Ukrainian people and future generations of Ukrainians. The government, whether through the demands of the International Monetary Fund in exchange for another loan, or using the European Court of Human Rights ruling, will try to extend the land market in any way. What Is the Land Market for Ukraine? This is the landing of the peasants. During the summer, I met dozens of farmers all over the country. None of them said that they support the sale of land because people have no money to buy land. People were led to poverty, cut off circulation, and have access to affordable loans. Not that the land can't buy, there's no money for fuel-oil materials, there's no chemical import. Ukraine is a huge European state, instead of having a powerful chemical industry, we're bringing imported kegs from abroad, resulting in bees, cattle and humans being killed. And that's why the Radical Party team is offering an alternative to this policy of landing peasants, which is run by the government. In 2017, in March, we registered changes to the Constitution, 186 people's deputies signed up for agriculture, agrarian farming, a one-person wager, a farmer, a small family farm, not latifundists and transnational corporations. Six huge oligarchs over the past year nearly doubled the size of the land bank, which under various corrupt schemes was taken into rural areas. And the goal is to get the land market, and then take the money away from people and sell it for billions. Our second requirement for government. Restoration of specific VAT on peasants. In this year's budget, over 6 billion dollars to support the agricultural industry, I didn't see any farmers or peasants get that support. All this money goes to latifundists in manual mode through corruption schemes. Therefore, the return of VAT to a specific person will be an honest support to the national farmer and Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u37	Thank you. And we have another statement from two groups, an application for a break that is ready to be replaced, two groups for a performance, a statement by the People's Deputy Shippek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u38	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol city, Pochrov city, Nicopolsk district, 35 constituency district Dear colleagues, today we are in the performances of my colleague, Mr. Kulinić, who was talking about building roads in Ukraine. And I understand that this is a question that concerns every person who is present in the room today. Because you and I moved away from the scene for the first time in Ukraine. We passed the Road Fund Laws, and first we see that the government is spending money on building and building roads in Ukraine. What do we see with you? We see that there are non-lethal companies that are involved in supporting the Antimonopoly Committee and blocking road construction tenders in Ukraine, half-Ukraine is blocked by tenders. Today I have personal pain, I have the cost of building the Nicaraguan road, it's actually the "road of life", which connects 325,000 people to the Dnipro district center, where people can get social services, and quality health care 3-4 levels. They cannot reach the district center because there is such a firm that blocked the tenders, went to the Antimonopoly Committee, agreed with Mr. Terentiy and all. The Antimonopoly Committee supported - and what? Money is, time is passed, and roads are not built. I mean, dear colleagues, I call on all of you today, we have the support of the committee today, we have the support of Ukraine. Today, we are joined by deputies from various factions and political factions and groups. Today we are registering a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the responsibility of unscrupulous subcontractors in the road sector. And I ask that we all support this bill. And I ask you personally, Sir Andrew, that this bill be introduced and circulated in the next few days in the session room. Don't let those companies go. So that road construction in Ukraine would continue. To be honest, transparent and clear to all -- both the population, and the inhabitants of villages, cities, and the government, and to us, the national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u39	Thank you. So the colleagues, all the speeches by both the deputies and the factions have been completed. We're moving to the agenda. And I want to point out that today we have an important draft decision on the implementation of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet Alliance on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the West Ukrainian People's Republic Act, as well as the ratification bloc. And the apparatus picked them up in such a way as to find the most compromising and unifying ratifications. So I ask everyone to adjust to active work. The first question is the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings. And the second question is already the draft decree on the implementation of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet of Unity. So, colleagues, we move on to the first question of order of the day. This is a bill for parliamentary hearings on "Education and science to ensure balanced development of human capital in Ukraine" (No. 8598). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:55:12]] For-125 I'll do it again, colleagues. So I'm re-voting the proposal for a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Education and Science to ensure a balanced development of human capital in Ukraine, so that we can look at it in a simplified way. Please vote. Vote. [[10:55:51]] For-143 Okay. I'll bet. If there are no votes, we will proceed to the full procedure. So once again, I propose that we consider draft Decree 8598 on the conduct of parliamentary hearings a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:56:27]] For a hundred and Several deputies have not made it. Okay, I'm going to re-supply the reduced procedure to Project Regulation 8598. Please vote. [[10:57:08]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u40	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, it was just the moment that I had been for the extended procedure. And I'll explain. Dear colleagues, they will draw attention to the name of this decree -- the balanced development of human capital. To all of us, we need to consider the profound questions: Why do young people go abroad? We need to consider the question: Why don't we have a balanced development of human capital? If there are slides, show me, I asked. 51 percent of the government's order for the model that now exists. Look, she went to three cities in Ukraine. Do we have that Ukraine is three cities? If it's not a problem, let's do it. See, 28 percent of the government’s order went to the city of Kiev. It's a big trend, it's a big challenge for Ukraine. If we keep doing that, we're going to have a big problem. Next slide, please. Take a look at the distribution of the situation in the NEOs in the regions. We see that we are actually forming an uneducated part of the population in southern Ukraine. Zaporozhye, look, the Herson region, the Mikolai district, etc. What are we preparing these territories for? The gap is up to 12-14 percent. And if we keep this trend, in 5-7 years, we're going to have a big problem. Dear colleagues, next. Look what happens to us on a government order for teachers. 112 landscaping for physics teachers, 353 for math teachers, is for 16,000 schools in Ukraine, 208 for chemistry teachers. If we keep this trend, dear colleagues, this is the end for Ukraine to have any chance at all of building an innovative economy and having some chance of going to the top-country. Therefore, these parliamentary hearings are primarily devoted. Just look, this is where the slides show everything. Today, on the committee, we will discuss this issue. But, dear fellows, it's not a personalization problem, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u41	Please add 2 minutes, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we have unfortunately launched these trends in the 14th year with the adoption of the so-called Higher Education Act. If they're setting us all up, please let's say that Ukraine is 3 places, that Ukraine will have 112 physics teachers, 208 chemistry, 353 mathematics. Although we do realize that only a third of us will go to school after completing their pedagogical training. What's going on? We should not create a model of Ukraine in which we have such a distinction between territories, we should find tools that are clear, we should form a state policy that would ensure the even development of all areas of Ukraine, if not, we would have great risks, because ignorance is not an immune system to fight zombies. Dear colleagues, this is a great challenge for Ukraine. We need to hold parliamentary hearings, hear people tell you what's going on. I see in my Herson area, two years ago, only 25.6 percent of the children remained after school. If this trend happens, we'll have big problems. Therefore, honourable colleagues, such parliamentary hearings are held for the first time. We're looking at education and science. Unfortunately, this is not our committee profile. We don't look at the economy, we don't look at pension insurance, we don't look at social issues. But through education and science, we will try to see what needs to be done to balance the development of human capital, stop the migration of children abroad, balance the development of education between regions and ensure the balanced development of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please vote and welcome, if we vote, December 5th to participate in these hearings, because we must understand, a strong Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u43	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u44	I want to thank you, and I hope for an honest professional discussion so that we can find tools to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, Taras Kremen, Mikolai. I'm asking you to support a draft decision that we've prepared with our committee. At our meeting, we supported him unanimously. But I would like to take a few important points. What does the development of human capital really mean today? This is not just a redistribution of government procurement to train higher education professionals, it is an increase in funding from local budgets to train specialists who will go to Ukrainian schools in Nikolayevska and Hersonian, who will provide health care facilities to young professionals who will provide the social sector with suitable qualified professionals who will not go abroad, but who will stay behind where they are needed in the first place. When it comes to global things, it's a question of the human capital development index and the annual reports at the Davo Global Forum just say that Ukraine has an extremely high potential, it's increasing the length of learning throughout life itself, but unfortunately, there are too many factors, such as health care, such as investment in science and education, such as supporting educational reforms, still needs to be adjusted accordingly. And the third, very important principle: we have to do an audit not only of the system of national universities, but also of the amount of attention that there is. We started a new Ukrainian school, and today there's a big problem with how to get the necessary levels to. The quality of each Ukrainian village. But at the same time, we need to understand that we need to work as hard as we can to get these hearings through, so we can put them in place and implement them according to the concept by 2030. I hope that the session hall will unite and help Ukraine reboot the system of human capital recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u49	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Halasyuk Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u50	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, human capital is the most expensive capital in any country in the world today. Regrettably, Ukraine today is rapidly losing human capital in the sense of that word. Yesterday, Foreign Minister Klimkin said that about a million citizens are emigrating from Ukraine each year. Imagine a million a year losing our country! Formerly Minister of Social Policy Reva said that about 8-9 million Ukrainians live and work abroad. In fact, most of them are forced wage earners who were forced to leave their families to go and make a few hundred euros abroad to feed their families. This is totally unacceptable in today’s world! Imagine, workers are almost 50 percent of the economically active population of Ukraine. This is the scale of the national disaster. Labour transfers form almost 10 percent of the country’s economy. There's almost no such thing in any country in the world that has a more or less decent economy. This is a sign of a lack of economic policy and a flawed economic model. This is totally unacceptable when transfers by employees are five times higher than foreign direct investment in the country. This means that Ukraine has been made a donor of people, raw materials and money to other industrialized economies. That's why we need to radically, radically change economic policy, and that's the importance of a new economic course, a new economic policy declared by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Luck. And it's not just words, it's a concrete plan for the development of the Ukrainian economy: cheaper loans, tax incentives for the country's production, free networking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u51	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u52	Removing barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy is biting out new markets for Ukrainian producers and inside the country through "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" and outside through the Export Credit Agency. Then Ukraine will cease to be a donor for the economic development of its neighbours, and it will become a powerful, modern European player in the global arena, where human capital is stored and multiplied.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u53	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Suggests a word for the speaker. Excuse me? That's what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u54	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, our faction of Fatherland and its leader have supported all legislative initiatives involving education. I want to say that the only reform we supported was educational reform. And we, when we had the opportunity over the last two months, who wanted to see how the classes were being reformed, how the classrooms were being updated in the new Ukrainian school. I want to say that the fatherland leader Julia Timoshenko and the faction, we're making an intellectual bet. So even when you're listening to Minister Klimkin, who says that from the land of Prashenka he's going to a million students abroad, it's an absolutely evocative situation. So I'd like to say that maybe things aren't so good at our new Ukrainian school, because I went to classes, talked to teachers who have just met the early kids. There are no textbooks, but I think literally a month or two or three of these textbooks will appear for our first-class students. I also want to say that it can't be in the state that, for example, the Naftogazu Prizes make up billions of dollars, but unfortunately our teachers don't have the same twenty percent for prestige or class. I can tell you that not only in the general education system are there problems. We also need to pay attention to preschool education, and we need to pay attention to higher education. So our task is to support this decision, and now the "Fatherland" faction will support this in order to open the debate, to give the education community the opportunity to express what they are in pain and what needs to be done in the walls of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u55	Please, you're done, aren't you? Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u56	Dear national deputies, the cosmonauts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what are you talking about? We have to have 3-4 specific practical priorities today. The first is the subsidy. 6 million of our fellow countrymen, people who barely survive, including through the shameful budget adopted in 2018, through totally antisocial, anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional policies in our country, need support, need the backs of government and coalition, and opposition. Because once again, there can be no opposition to Ukraine and the common people. The average wage is 6 percent of the cost of production in Ukraine. Nowhere in the world, even in the occupation that you and I are criticizing, is 20 percent. This is the use of the slave labor of ordinary Ukrainians. Third. We don't have a decent pension today. Did they not earn a decent pension by building factories, factories, and factories? Next. I don't understand why rhetoric and opposition and coalitions are so pompous. Why don't you do specific things? Why we're talking about a new course and blockers today, and in Poltava we're covering the corrupt bastard Mamay, serving a three-billion-billion-dollar sink, and I'm addressing Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Every morning, I will turn from this rostrum. Take your faction away from the coalition with Mama, who publicly bribed the judge, and tried to bribe Judge Golnik. Prove you're a new course, not some totally mythical new pianist idea. This is a new course, this is a test, a bill to the Ukrainian people! Everything else is bullshit!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u57	So, colleagues, now there's going to be two speeches from Self-Help and the Opposition Block, as I promised. That means there'll be a vote in five minutes. I therefore, colleagues, address all the heads of factions, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, to invite deputies to the Hall. After two performances, we will move on to making a decision. It's 2 minutes, Oleg Berezuk. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This is the moment when physical abuse of students, teachers, and parents of the Loutov School in the district of Lviv is taking place. When physically, needlessly, in violation of the masses of laws, teachers are released and a violently good school is closed, bullying students, parents, and a village that protects their right to have a school in their village because there is no way to go to the next school. Because there's no need to close it. The government, led by the Prime Minister, led by the Minister of Education, is physically harassing the governor for what? Saving a few thousand dollars? Close the customs office. Shut down the gas leaks in Skrnaft, hundreds of thousands of cubic metres a day, and make money for the state. Don't make fun of the schools. Do not abuse those who care for their school, teach their children, and love their teachers. I am now addressing the Minister of Education of Ukraine. Immediately, at this moment, note the unprincipled conduct of the Lvivsky district administration regarding the school in Lviv district of Lviv. And stop persecuting those who maintain education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u59	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I emphasize once again that we need to go into the hall, and in two minutes we're moving on to the decision-making process. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Heads of factions, look who's gone, and invite us to the hall. From the Opposition Block to the word, Natalia Kraljevska is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will not support this decision. And our decision is clear. Because we think that today's educational reform needs to be reversed, not listened to and told stories to each other. It was never like that that on September 1, our children would go to school without textbooks, so that there would be no party in many schools, and parents would look for parties, soaps, beauty, and put them back in school in a few days. We have not seen that before, when some schools today have made very expensive repairs, they are shown throughout the country, and other schools are now closing down. It has not been seen that today in the schools of the red zone, where billions of dollars were allocated for the restoration of Donbas, today all repairs are done at the expense of charities. And in many schools there's no roof over the head, there's no dining room, there's no kids to study, there's no school bus. And this cynicism is where billions of dollars were allocated for reform, when you promised that every school, a new Ukrainian school would be repaired today, and we saw it all, unfortunately, the other way around. That is why we demand and we have appealed to the Constitutional Court to declare this reform unconstitutional, to abolish it. And we don't need to be complaining about each other for this reform. That's the first one. The other one. We demand that today we increase grants and provide teachers first so that they have a salary and a salary raise. And the third. We demand the adoption of laws to support childhood and motherhood. So that moms can see the future in their kids today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u61	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. I remind you, we have the next draft of the decree to execute the All-Ukrainian Estaphetha Unite to the 100th anniversary of the Declaration of the Zluca Act. And I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to the vote and to make decisions. Everyone, please take your seats, get ready for the vote. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Education and science to ensure balanced development of human capital in Ukraine" (No. 8598). Please vote and please support. Let us support education, support our committee. Vote. [[11:17:42]] For 197 We're not there. I'll wait a minute, 197. So, colleagues, I'll read the factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, 82. People's Front - 53, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 16, Radical Party - 12, Fatherland - 10, People's Will - 1, Rebirth Party - 2. Colleagues, now I'm going to make an offer to return and I'm asking you to support everyone. Please take up jobs. So I was asked to wait literally 30 seconds. Please come in. I would like to point out that I will now make an offer to return to the ruling. And the next decision will be very important and symbolic for our Parliament. So I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall, to see who's not here. So the first vote will be for the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Education and Science to ensure a balanced development of human capital in Ukraine (8598). Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:20:05]] For 205 We're not back yet. Colleagues, if there are no votes, I'm going to have to rule out. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see but. Look who's not around, call, especially the members of the Education Committee. Show the factions, please, once again, so that the heads of the factions are oriented. Peter Poshenko's Block – 85, People's Front – 57, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 13, Father's Party – 11, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 2 and non-fractional – 20. So let's go to the vote. People's deputies have come in, and I am voting once again to return to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Education and Science to ensure balanced development of human capital in Ukraine. And, colleagues, it's just the parliamentary hearings that are in the hall, support. This is a parliamentary hearing. Support the committee. That'll be fair and fair. I'm asking you to return to the hall. So please support the proposal to return to the draft regulation 8598. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:22:15]] For 213 None. I'm going to put the third time again. Please, I think there's potential, we just have to check who's not here and invite them. Be a good girl, come into the hall. I, my colleagues, encourage you to examine who is not here and invite you. I'll do it. They're going to the Chamber. So please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal. Okay, I'll wait 10 seconds. It's just that, colleagues, you have to understand, then there will be your laws and there will be no people, and so will someone who cares about it, whose law it is. If you don't have general respect and solidarity with the committee, with Parliament, with each other, we won't be able to work effectively. So I would like to support the proposal to go back to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Education and Science to ensure balanced development of human capital in Ukraine. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice. The vote is taken into account and agreed upon. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:24:08]] For 219 Seven votes. High potential. All right, I'm going to put the faction back on offer, I'm going to put it again. Please take up jobs. I'll put it to the vote again. And don't leave the hall, on the contrary, invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, please take your seats. I'll do it now. We're seven votes short. It is important that everyone carefully participates in the vote and supports it. And I would like to ask the committee members to facilitate the general mobilization. So seven votes. I'm voting on the proposal to return to Project Order 8598. Please carefully take part in the vote, and please support. Please vote. Vote. [[11:25:32]] For 214 No votes, no co-workers, no ruling rejected. But right now, colleagues, I'm going to put on a rating vote a draft decree for the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet Union on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of the Ukrainian People's Republic of Ukraine and the Western Ukrainian People's Republic Act. I ask you, colleagues, all to take part in this decision now. I'm putting her on a rating vote and I'm asking everyone to support and vote. Please support the draft decree of 8088. Please vote and please support. Vote, rating vote. [[11:26:28]] For 210 I think we can go in, 210 votes. I think there's going to be mobilization, but since we have half an hour left, I'm asking you to vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:26:59]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Vladimir. And I ask everyone to return to the hall 12 hours ago. At 11:50, everyone, please return to the hall. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u62	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft decree is the result of the common political position of all, I stress, of all political factions and MPs of the Supreme Council, so I'm just going to give a little bit of historical evidence. On December 1, 1918, a preliminary agreement was signed at the Fastow Railway Station on the conflict between the Ukrainian People’s Republic and the West Ukrainian People’s Republic into a single congregational state. On January 3, 1919, the Ukrainian National Council declared in Stanislav the approval of the Treaty of Festus and ratified the act of interstate union. On January 22, 1919, a treaty was solemnly announced in Kiev, Sofia Square, with foreign delegations, the clergy, and representatives of the public. Today this day in our country is celebrated as the Day of Assembly of Ukraine. At the same time, respected colleagues, political events in Ukraine testify to the fact that politicians, especially with the start of political campaigns, speak mainly of what divides, dispels the Ukrainian people, not of what unites and consolidates us. Obviously, this legislative initiative is called upon to demonstrate the unity of the Ukrainian people if the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes the right decision. At the same time, I see, my dear colleagues, that this decision will not be made. Of course, it's going to be a blow to the Supreme Council, all the more so that it's a completely non-political document, and this is a document, if you want, of great national democratic content that should demonstrate that, despite all the differences in Ukraine, it's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u63	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u64	to demonstrate that Ukraine should be a whole, congregated state with the name "Ukraine" proud. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Please refer to the report of the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the People’s Deputy Victor Yelensky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, at the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, on April 4, 2018, a draft decree was considered, and after a sufficiently intense discussion, most members of the committee supported it. She supported this issue with great importance and as one that unites the Ukrainian community and strengthens our statehood. At the same time, it should be noted that the text of the draft regulation requires technical and legal editing. In this regard, the committee makes proposals that I ask to take into account. First. The name of the draft Order is edited: the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of the Ukrainian People's Republic of Ukraine and the Western Ukrainian People's Republic Act and the holding of the All-Ukrainian Estapheta United. The other one. In the preamble to the draft, the words "taking into account the address of the Association of Ukrainian Cities" are deleted. Third. In paragraph 1 at the beginning of the sentence, add the phrase "in January 2019." Four. In paragraph 3, replace the word "preparation" with "preparation plan." Fifth. In paragraphs 3, 4 5, 6, 7 and 8, add the word "recommend". Six. In paragraph 9 at the beginning of the sentence add the word "proposal." And the seventh. Paragraph 2 of paragraph 9 is replaced by the following: public.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u67	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u68	To the public stock company Krašta to issue a series of postage stamps for Soborna Ukraine. As a result of the review, the committee recommends that the draft decree be based on the Committee’s proposals as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. People's deputies would like to prepare themselves for a brief discussion: two in, two in, and two in, against. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u70	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will certainly support this decision, for the words of wickedness and complicity are key to the Ukrainian state and to the Ukrainian state. At the same time, we would like to encourage colleagues of national MPs, government officials, Ukrainian politicians to analyze the Ukrainian history of the century. You can go to the cinema, today's premiere screening of the film "The Secret Diary of Petlura" begins, and you can see how the Ukrainian State ended up with the weak politics a hundred years ago. So we suggest that, in order for the contestation not to remain simply words that politicians use for pianists before elections, make real steps that will make the Ukrainian state strong. Our leader, Oleg Lasko, has proposed changes to the Constitution, which envision the abolition of the Prime Minister's post, the reduction of ministers twice, the reduction of national deputies to two hundred men, a strong parliament with control functions under a strong President who is responsible for executive power. It's the American model. This, we believe, will save the Ukrainian statehood, will enable us to bring about an iron order, overcome chaos, poverty and make Ukraine a truly Ukrainian self-congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u71	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krulka. Please. From the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u72	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, for this draft decree on the conduct of an action such as the All-Ukrainian Estaphet Alliance on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the UN-UNR Zluka Act and the ZUNR, it is certain that such a draft decision will be voted on and supported by the Fatherland Decision. But I would like to remind you of some of the historical shades and shadows of that historical era. Because at the time that the historical document on the Zluka Act was actually signed on the Sofia field, politics in Kiev could not agree with each other on the key development issues of the Ukrainian state. Some said that Ukraine needed an army, others said, "The army must be disbanded." Some said, "We need alliances with Europe." Others ran to Moscow. And as a result of this spring, on the inside, signing the right documents, Ukraine lost its statehood and independence. An army of Muraviov, made up of 5,000 alcoholics, sailors, who took their clothes and boots in battle and captured Ukraine. Because there was no unity in the soul and in the hearts of politicians, whose history then gave the opportunity to start building a new Ukrainian state. Now I'd like to say that we're also at a historic stage. A very complicated, very dirty and cynical election season begins. And so listen, the honourable politicians who are in this room, to the initiative that Julia Timoshenko announced from this rostrum -- to sign a memorandum on issues that cannot be the subject of speculation during the election campaign. This is our course on the European Union and NATO, membership in these organizations. This is a question that concerns recognition of Russia as an aggressor. This is a question that concerns the Ukrainian army. But most importantly, so that these issues are not the subject of corruption in Ukrainian politics, then we will preserve and strengthen the Ukrainian state. And no matter who becomes Ukraine’s next president, Julia Timoshenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u73	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u74	This course for EU and NATO membership and for the Ukrainian victory over the Russian occupation will be carried out, and we will all do it together. This document must be voted on, bearing in mind the complex lessons of the century. And then, indeed, Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u75	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u76	The gathering in Ukraine and in any country in the world is impossible among the poor, the disadvantaged, the socially vulnerable and the power left by the free. There should be three pillars in the congregation as a united state institution of unifying state matter: a decent salary, a decent pension. The congregation should have a reputation, respect for the State, for the common man. Competitiveness, unity, a strong independent sovereign state, a competitive state with a competitive humanitarian sector, an economy is only possible under one exclusive condition: when everyone in Parliament, everyone in the President's Administration, starting from the top floor to the bottom, everyone in any administration on the ground will work hard every day, stitching up the country, sticking to the poles, solving specific issues. And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament today, yesterday, tomorrow would have exactly the specific issue of social protection, finding formulas for saving Ukraine, Ukrainians from a poor salary, a poor pension, a lack of social protection, this particular order of day, we should devote time to working from morning to late night, like when we take a budget when there are tens, hundreds of billions of dollars. I am today, dedicated to this subject, to this vote, and I am addressing, in particular, the Committee of Socialists, the Cabinet. Today, we have a huge number of our children who live with us who cannot join Ukrainian higher education institutions. Because they can't give up the D.N.A. because the teacher of biology and physics is gone. And they're going to DNR and LNR. Start with specific questions. Ukraine begins with specific questions and our joint professional and meaningful consolidation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u77	Thank you. We finished the speeches and discussions from the MPs. And before we move on to the decision-making process, I invite you to the closing statement. You will? You want out of the place, don't you? People's MP Litwin. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! I listened here to the speech, the patheticness of the election, not the content of the question, and realized that there would be no positive decision. I think the offer will be right for the Supreme Council not to be disgraced. Either take that question off or move it on. And I'm talking to my colleagues. Some, when they go to screaming, I have to say that a politician who feels his power, he speaks in a normal voice to be heard and listened to. And you don't need to act on the principle that the arguments are weak -- you need to raise your voice. Let's focus on specific issues. I'm absolutely calling and calling and saying. So you're a coalition, so listen to the government, make the right decision. To whom do you appeal, to whom do you appeal?Oh, my God! Over the last four years, you've buried the country, and now you're distributing pathetic. Back up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u79	I'm sorry, Mr. Litwin. Do you support the editorial that was proposed by the committee? If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u80	I totally support it. But at the same time, well, obviously it's a sensitive issue on a political scale and it's not really about the political mood in the country, it's going to go far beyond the country. So the decision, I don't see what's going to be positive. Although the signatures of all the factions and MPs are there. It's a completely apolitical document. We need to talk about what makes us the only thing that unites us. And here I've listened to all the speeches and they say how we're going to win, so we're going to give you the unity of the Ukrainian people. But there will be no one with whom, and no one else to provide for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u81	Thank you. And I ask of the committee, please, from the place also the national deputy of Yelen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u82	I am very glad that everyone supports this decision, that everyone is supporting the drafting of our committee. And I want to stress once again that the nation is united, not by language, not by territory, not by political order, but by the desire and desire of people to be together. Therefore, we must all vote and support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u83	Thank you. In a few minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I appeal to the National Deputies, and I also address the heads of factions to invite the National Deputies to the decision-making room. It's a really important decision, all the more that it's going to be incomprehensible to people, why this decision didn't get enough votes. We'll wait a few minutes. Please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u84	So the discussion is over. I ask all the factions to see who is not in the hall. and invite you to the hall. I also ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that we are moving on to the decision-making process. These are the votes on which they will be asked, including all the deputies, and the majority, where they were during the vote, as in general, where they were in Parliament. So I ask everyone to get to the hall as much as possible, leave the beds, take up jobs. And look who's in the towers and invite you to the hall. I'm asked to wait 30 seconds, and I'll wait 30 seconds. Give a signal through your liaisons so that everyone will arrive in the voting room. Please come in, take your places. So, colleagues, everyone understands the importance of giving the Act of Zluga of the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Western Ukrainian People's Republic. I'm sure in most of our families there were people who fought for Ukrainian independence at the time, and the Zluca Act was an important symbolic act that Ukraine, which was divided between the two empires, declared not only its independence but its compatriot. And the independent constituency became a symbol of the reborn and modern - day Ukrainian state. So I ask everyone to maximize their mobility to support this decision. So please take up jobs. Colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? I was asked to wait. Look at the clocks, yeah. So everybody in the workplace. And we're moving on to making a decision. Please come in, take your places. So let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the implementation of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet Union on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of the Act of the Zluca of the Ukrainian People's Republic and of the West Ukrainian People's Republic (No.8088) as proposed by the Committee, the draft decision is proposed as a basis and as a whole. So, colleagues, please vote and please support. Every voice. We're voting carefully. Vote, colleagues, 8088 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Vote. Please, everyone, back up the hall. [[11:49:33]] For 217 A few votes. We'll be waiting. Please turn on the factions. And invite you to the hall, colleagues. Look who's gone, and invite me to the hall. The factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 82, National Front – 61, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 17, Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka – 16, Parenthood – 12, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 2, non-factional – 24. 24 – non-fractional. So now I'm going to put you back on the job, please. I'll remind you, I'm going to put a verdict to the vote with the committee's proposals. The first vote will be in return, and then the decision will be taken again. Please take up jobs, colleagues, you see, every voice has a weight. Ready to vote? So the first vote will be the return. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft decree on the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet union on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of the Zluca Act. Please vote in favour of the return to the ruling. Please vote, please support. Careful, every voice! Please support, we vote hard, we vote hard, we vote hard, we vote back, we vote hard. [[11:51:47]] For 228 So we're back. Now I ask everyone to remain seated, prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Estaphet Alliance on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian People's Republic and West Ukrainian People's Republic Act (8088) with proposals by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We'll support the Zluka Act, we'll support the verdict! Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Everyone has a responsible vote. Please be supportive. [[11:52:40]] For 233 It's been decided. Colleagues, stay put. Now I want to make a signal vote on ratifications so I don't put them at risk. So we have the first – the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments. Colleagues, we have voices in the room. Let's do a rating not supported. Please vote, please support. This is a rating vote, please support. [[11:53:29]] For 199 Unfortunately, 199. Next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Economic Cooperation, Ratification No. 0187. And I'm betting on a rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:54:01]] For a hundred and And, colleagues, I'm going to place another ratification of the rating vote, this is the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation on the readmission of persons (number 0192). It's a rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:54:37]] For-183 The ratings vote showed that ratifications. We don't have the potential, I'm not putting them at risk. So I would like, colleagues, to announce that after lunch we are going to go to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The Ukrainian State Environmental Policy: Status and Perspectives." And now I want to read another announcement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional inter-fractional "For Language" union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich has been elected head of this association. ” Now, colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, I ask everyone to return to the hall. I remind you, we're going to go to Project 8624. And I'm asking Fishman John Petrovich to be in the hall at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u85	Hence, respectable colleagues, the time taken for a break, is exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Is our reporter Rybak present? Ribak Ivan Petrovich. The reporter is Rybak Ivan Petrovich. I'm asking my colleagues at the faction to help find a reporter for the following decision by Ribak Ivan Petrovich and ask everyone to come into the hall. I'd like to inform you that a message has been sent to the Presidency. First, he asks Ishchikin to count his vote under Decree 0192 because his card did not work. And also from Gorbunov, he also asks that his vote under Decree 0192 be counted in connection with the fact that the card did not work. I would like to remind you that we no longer have the right to participate in the Supreme Council programme, but we can announce publicly that there is general information about the position of the People's Deputy on the decision. Fellow members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster! Is there anyone on the committee? So, colleagues, we have a final question of the agenda -- this is a draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Ordinance on "The Ukrainian National Environmental Protection Policy: Status and Perspectives of Development." And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, a respected Ukrainian people! Paul Djublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Well, first of all, we see all of us, we don't need to tell anyone about the environmental problems that exist in almost every region of our Ukraine and in terms of protection and forests and lakes and all the other things that we have. The 5th is proposed, the committee proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on 5 December 2018 on "The Ukrainian State Environmental Policy: State and Development Outlook". Unfortunately, it's important to note that all of our conservation policy is that we view nature as a means to raise funds, and we always, that is, we use nature as a resource. As a result, we take it, we destroy it, here. Generally speaking, we take the same region of Zitomir. Today, construction is under way, you know, everyone who is now building the northern bypass, that is, the road that is being built at the expense of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As a result, in order to build this road, you have to find a lot of, very little, order of 3 million cubic meters of soil that would be used as a base. As a result. For example, since so far there is no career in the Zitomir region that is legal in terms of mining, direct soil, and sand, there is no land on the road again, let us say, not entirely legal careers, which once again brings great damage to the environment. So we have to look at all of this and still accept the only document that would show again to our entire country, where we're moving in the direction of environmental legislation. Thank you. So I'd like to ask you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Please. Thank you. Now come out of the factions. I ask the factions who intend to participate in the discussion to record a statement. So please sign up. From the "Fatherland" faction, Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u88	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Colleagues, environmental issues and environmental protection are a very important issue. And we realize that in a warring country, there are more pressing questions, people are going to put these questions on the second scale. Yet for the State, the issue of quality of life, for the State, the issue of environmental protection and the question of the future generation, is a unique question that even in wartime should not be. They should not be ignored. We are now living with you in the concept of the whole world and the reports of the Roman Club. If we used to be in the concept of an empty world, that is, there were a lot of resources, there were a lot of land, there were a lot of different things that a person could use, now that we're almost 7 billion, we live, we have to live differently, and we have to enter into other relationships with nature. Other relationships are ecosystem partnerships. If man was, you know, afraid of nature, nature dominated man, now man thinks he's the master of nature. So we have to become partners with nature, and relationships have to go on a partnership basis. We have a big problem -- it's a matter of climate change. And we had just recently parliamentary hearings, the first parliamentary hearings on this subject, there was, unfortunately, not a very large number of fellow MPs. Yet, resource constraints and environmental problems, the problems of climate change that will affect everyone, are the most important challenges in the world. And every developed country, when a sociological survey is being conducted in developed countries, for example, in the United States, the first problem that frightens Americans is global terrorism, the second problem is climate change and environmental protection. We should also have a great deal to do with this. But with weak power, we're going to see that there's going to be a problem of amber, there's going to be a problem of carpathian cutting, there's going to be a problem of mining, there, I don't know, sand from Dniepra, there's going to be a problem of digging. When there is a weak central authority that allows local princes to cut down forests and do this ecological disaster, we will have a bad environment. How many problems do we now have with agricultural enterprises that ignore environmental standards? But they're not aliens, they're not aliens, they're Ukrainians. And the regional authorities see it, the central authorities see it. So we need to hold these public hearings, parliamentary hearings, to decide what to do about the protection of the environment. And that's what will be dedicated, including the fourth block of the partnership ecosystem in the new course of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, to be presented in November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u89	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. From Peter Dustenk's Block, Sergey Kaplin. Please turn on the Caplin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I am perhaps all of our fellow countrymen who are now watching the television channel "The Council" is depressed, shocked by the absence of national MPs who would have this extremely relevant and serious problem to discuss. Now, this discussion is unfortunately a joke from individual factions of the coalition, and as a result of these environmental problems, the absence of strategies, projects, environmental challenges, the response to environmental challenges are the diseases of our fellow countrymen. In Ukraine, 1 million oncophagus. Ukraine has no medical, methodological prescriptions to meet this absolutely catastrophic challenge for a simple human being. Under conditions of poverty, the plight of an ordinary Ukrainian, low income, and lack of attention on the part of the State, no Ukrainian family can cope, a mere Ukrainian family cannot cope. We're talking to the Ministry of Social Policy. Minister, we appeal to the government, in the same way that we conduct appropriate hearings at our committee level, with a proposal, and then with the requirement that families of onc sick be given the right to a grant, regardless of who is prescribed, who is owed, what is required of them. Well, make a perfectly normal gesture for these people. To people who live through the last months of their lives. Prove that you are a state, a social state that you are concerned about. Take responsibility for 27 years leading ecology in the country to the level that led to, well, actually genocide against ordinary people. Zero answer. Zero. Just smiles and irony, just avoiding any conversation. When I say that tomorrow these people will come to the Ministry of Social Policy, the deputy minister of social policy, I have a record of the conversation, and he says, "Let them come, I need a ticket to pick up the cruisers." And yesterday, the neighborhoods were freed. Come here. What do you think would be in a normal country, in a civilized country where European ideals, European values with such a deputy minister? And would the minister resign? No reaction from the Prime Minister or from the Deputy Prime Minister or from the Minister of Social Policy. So today on the committee at 2:30 p.m., I invite the media to discuss the issue of the resignation of the Minister of Social Policy. And we will fight for cleansing in the government of people who hate the common people, and we will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u91	Thank you. So there's no one from the factions who want to speak anymore, is there? And let's move on to the speeches from the national MPs. I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies. Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u92	There's a criticism here about what I'm about to say for the common people, for the common peasants, for the workers, for those who work hard, for those who create a gross domestic product, from which people's deputies pay their wages, the light here in the day doesn't go out and across all the corridors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A few billion dollars for a totally thoughtless, unsuspecting job is spent in the pockets of ordinary people. Similarly, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is funded by a simple person. So I'm going to keep speaking on behalf of millions of ordinary people here. And I believe that, Andrew Volodymyrovich, we have to open a discussion that you started at the Conciliation Council on the responsibility of the deputies for the visit. One billion dollars, that's what the cancer needs. One billion dollars needed today by local councils to build new FAPs, to rebuild hospitals, to carry out full medical reform, not the campaign that is currently taking place. One billion dollars, which is needed on Ukrainian roads, is now being eaten by factions in the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who spend these costs, financing NewsOne, the pro-Russian NewsOne, the pro-Russian 112 and other pro-Russian TV channels, buying political advertising, telling how cool today is a better Ukrainian living, what prospects it has, what will guarantee peace in the future, and what powerful leaders we have that will lead to a better bright future for our country today. I think that all today's political forces have to refuse, definitely refuse to take money from ordinary people's pockets to organize this advertising populism propaganda, and I think that these funds should be directed to just Ukrainian peasants, to a simple Ukrainian schoolboy, to protect our borders, to develop the real economy. We have to cut the cost of retaining power significantly today. These excesses for the maintenance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where 60-70 deputies are in the hall. Imagine a Ukrainian farm, a Ukrainian enterprise, where only a third of people would voluntarily come to work, and they would systematically receive monthly wages. Similarly, we must open up other important social debates in our country. There can be no such thing that a simple worker pays a tax on the income of a natural person on an equal footing with a prosecutor, a judge who receives hundreds of thousands of wages, a manager of Naftogazu. This autumn's agenda should be clear, it should be social, it should be aimed exclusively at protecting the interests of the common man, his pensions, his jobs, creating new jobs, fighting for the rights of ordinary people. That's what Parliament should do in full. and rehabilitate to ordinary Ukrainians for their inaction, for their anti-Ukrainian activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u93	Thank you. I encourage all the reporters to speak on the subject of the decision that is under discussion. I would like to remind you of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The National Environmental Protection Policy of Ukraine: Status and Perspectives of Development". And I invite you to say, Krulko John is giving Rybka the word for the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I fully agree with you that we need to speak on the subject under consideration. The theme is the state of conservation. However, we have a ministry called: The Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, and very much in the history of the past, this ministry was seen as a ministry of natural resources and a large number of permits were issued for nadra, and they were embezzled. And unfortunately, the current authorities continue to view environmental protection as a resource asset. The Supreme Council has adopted a large number of bills, which I, including my colleagues from the Ecology Committee, from other political powers, have been co-authors, this is also about the ODS – on environmental impact assessment, the strategic environmental assessment that must now be implemented to improve the situation on the ground. However, what we see in the state of control of natural resources is simply a horror. Well, just think of two very simple examples. A state company called Crushing, which is supposed to grow gas production, and they have a 20/20 program, which is an increase in the level of gas production to 20 billion cubic meters. Unfortunately, it can't be executed because licenses for new areas, they don't go to a state company, they're going to be given to the guardians of the past government, which is now very well-arranged and adapted to today's government. And we see that both in the Poltava region and in the Kharkiv region, and in other areas, licenses are passed on. They don't win on auctions, and they don't pay the right rent and they don't pay the right taxes on the state budget, which then should go on, I don't know, on the pension, on the payoff to teachers, etc. We see the same situation with the hopes of lithium. This is actually the future of Ukraine, the future industry, which is also related to electric cars, and with, I don't know, batteries for mobile phones, to create green jobs and to create a lot of industries. It is also in an opaque way, through very questionable testing procedures, that these nadars were handed over to the protagonists of the active authorities, who are now trying to understand that they have only six months left in power, while the President-in-Office is in power, that they should be able to adapt as quickly as possible, but not in order to build factories, factories, create jobs, they are not taking gas deposits -- in order to extract more gas, so that the population can get Ukrainian gas at normal prices or sell it abroad, and they have earned income to the state. No, they're robbing it to sit on these sleepy licenses to complete the paperwork and then resell it, waiting for some mythical foreign investors. Knowing the nature of foreign investment, I can tell you that normal investors don't come to this. Cyprus's one-day offshores are coming, and they don't add value or improve the situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u95	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u96	So it's also along with law enforcement, where there's a lot of problems from, I don't know, dumping in Mariupola that's not being resolved, in Zaporozhye, Nicopoli, etc., before deforestation in Carpathians and amber in Polissa, the very issue of resources should also be addressed by the Supreme Council and appropriate decisions taken, including personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Solovai Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u99	Please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u100	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, first of all, I would like to address you because today's debate once again shaves off, seriously exposes the problem of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. We're mimicking work in the hope that people will see it, but I think Ukrainian society today is enough at another stage of its development to not understand it. And we cannot achieve the results of Ukraine's development until the work of the Ukrainian Parliament is effective. And today, in our agenda, I've listened to you and listened to the speaker, the Prime Minister, we have many important questions: both the CBC, and the Electoral Code and the budget. But for some reason, I didn't hear questions that actually relate to optimizing the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. We had a Cox mission. Very good drafts have been drafted, I know, by your authorship. A great deal of legislation has already been passed in the first reading. Well, let's say, maybe even though Parliament is calling this, well, let's spend one day on regulatory issues, let's clear up the problems that are in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, let's speak frankly and frankly about them. Otherwise we won't do anything. We need to understand that clearly. And that's why I'm talking to you as a speaker anyway, well, let's go somewhere soon. And there's no problem, even if they don't find consensus. Let us take them to the hall and let the Ukrainian society see how one behaves on these issues. Because I believe that if we want to make progress in the development of our state, the progress in adopting legislative acts and so forth, without optimizing the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, without exposing the problematic issues that are at work, without taking responsibility for the non-visiting of Parliament, without stopping the legislative spam and so on, we will not be able to make progress in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking you to raise again the issue of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make a decision and to spend one day exclusively to optimize the work, the Supreme Council Rules, and still at least a little bit to make decisions that would allow us to work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u101	Thank you. As far as the address was concerned, I will answer because this is also true of the urgent problem. You may have listened carelessly, both on the Conciliation Council, and speaking here from the high rostrum, speaking about the autumn plans, I noted as a separate cluster of questions on reform of parliament. And among them I noted that these are the two bills that have already passed the first reading. This is about the distribution of committees based on the D’Ondt principle and the number of committees. Now I'm waiting for the committee's decision, and these questions will soon become a day's work. And I also called the issue of creating the TSC as a mechanism for active parliamentary control functions and, by the way, I also called an important initiative, which I plan to register, which concerns another issue of the current parliament, which is legislative spam. My idea was that when the author registers the bill, they will place their signatures under it as a minimum of 18 members of the smallest faction, so that the bill will not be used as a form of pyar for a single day appearance on the site. And I look forward to supporting those initiatives in the hall. And I also want to let you know that in our discussions with the factions' heads, we talked in detail about making decisions in the hall by a common majority, which would be a big answer to the challenges that stand. But I want to point out and point out the complexity of that question. The Constitution states that the law must finally be adopted by 226 in general. So the idea was that the first reading could be accepted by the general majority. And I'm going to say that in the previous conversation, in fact, none of the heads of factions had supported this idea before, considering and calling many risks. By the way, one of the risks that we're going to have a huge accumulation of the laws of first reading, and the second reading is going to be very difficult to accept. And these questions remain in my control. And I think it should be a common, common ambition for us to maximize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you, by the way, for many years Wednesday, no drafts were adopted at all. Such a reserve and terrarium were made when bills were called oppositions that were not likely to pass. Now with fights, but we accept. We made an important decision today. And this has to become a tradition. And all these years we've been making decisions. And I'm doing my best, but it can't be done without the consolidation of everyone's efforts, without constant factions talking to the factions, in persuading the factions of their fellow MPs. It'll be necessary, I'll do public service again, publish in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" who is missing. And of course, I'm going to make the most of it so that we can make positive decisions. It is simply an answer and an appeal to all that the initiatives relating to parliamentary reform should be redesigned and supported as much as possible. Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, three minutes. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u102	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I wanted to speak now according to the subject matter of the ruling that is now being discussed, which is called the "State Environmental Policy of Ukraine: Status and Perspectives of Development," right? Draft Resolution on Parliamentary hearings on this subject. But given that the individual people's deputies and the Head of the Supreme Council are also talking about the reform of Parliament so-called, I would still like to start with this issue and point out that the reform of Parliament is primarily in two respects, a real reform of Parliament. This is, first of all, that there should be in this Parliament the majority of the people's deputies who represent the interests of most of the Ukrainian people. Not as now, when 90 percent of the national MPs represent the interests of 1 percent of Ukrainian citizens. This is the first time. Secondly, after such a majority has finally emerged, Ukraine's Act "On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" will be implemented. I stress the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's all, that's all. If there were two of these issues, then Parliament would still be working as a real representative body of the Ukrainian people, not as an oligarchic adaptable chamber, as it is now working. Well, it's about Parliament reform. As far as this decision and the state-of-the-art environmental policy and the state and prospects of its development are concerned, I would like to take the lead in speaking now as a mayor in Kiev City, yes, elected in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv, 223 district. Unfortunately, we've seen in recent years, it's not just in this mayor Klitschka, but in his spiritual mentor and second Chernevski it's still started, well, and Klitschko it continues, we see total destruction of green areas in Kiev, we see total destruction of squares and parks. Yes, periodically they open up under fanfare after tens of millions of dollars stolen, and some restored parks open. But if we look at Kiev as a whole, we see Dnipra's shore being built by a friend of Klitschka, MP of the Mikitasem Supreme Council, who bought documents and called Dnipro a middle river, a river of medium importance, and destroyed the banks of Dnipra. We see storied trees chopping up all over Kiev to trick another TRC or another cloud. It's actually happening all over Kiev, yes. And if the Supreme Council were truly representative, then the Supreme Council would, in the framework of environmental protection, probably still, for example, adopt, continue the law that once did, on the moratorium on green plantings in the capital. This law was relatively recent in its history. Regrettably, there are representatives of the forgetful mafia in the Supreme Council. Please add 20 seconds, please, as everyone else has been added.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u103	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Unfortunately, in the Supreme Council, instead of adopting laws such as the moratorium on green planting, members of the restorative mafia are adopting absolutely terrible changes to the City Activity Regulation Act, pushing absolutely terrible changes to state building standards and thus continuing the destruction of Kiev and other major cities of the country. So I hope that you will invite real environmentalists to these hearings, not manual so-called experts, who will tell you from this rostrum how to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u106	Aresonkov, 64 constituency. It's vitality. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, indeed, I also associate myself with the thoughts of all those who have expressed great regret that today we have only one very important decision to make, because this one we are talking about now, most of all, also has no chance of adopting, because there is not enough basic vote. The topic is as important as the first decision on education for young people in the future, the training of specialists in different directions and sectors, so important that I will certainly insist that we consider these two decisions on the day that there will be a full quorum in the decision-making room. With regard to public policy in the environmental field, the prospects I'll tell you only one thing: that's one of the last protest actions under the Supreme Council of citizens who came, the vast majority of them were in one way or another related to the negative state of the environment with what's happening in the state in our forests, in our rivers and in our air condition, that's the question of the environment of the future of our country, well, as a result, probably the absence of a strong state policy in this direction. I could also give many examples of native Lifetime, for example, where the forests are now being destroyed by whole forest arrays, in this case, say pines, other species of trees under different circumstances and natural conditions, and diseases, and so on. Today, like everyone else, I express my concern about the disappearance of not only small rivers. Look at the state today of Dnipro, the water level has completely fallen, it's blooming, it's growing and so forth. So it is absolutely right that experts who say that future major wars in the world, future major disasters, will be associated with the fight for natural resources, including water, forests, and so forth. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to hold full parliamentary hearings on this subject, where representatives of the government are heard and heard, to insist that a clear, transparent state strategy is adopted in all directions and, of course, must not be forgotten about people, for yesterday’s action by the Chernobylites under the Supreme Council, including how we mistreat nature and which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u107	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u108	And to what tragic consequences, I mean the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Chernobyl AES accident could lead to human activity. So, of course, I urge everyone to insist that this decision be adopted and considered in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u109	Thank you. Two final performances: Halasyuk and Rybak. Please. And that concludes the discussion. Please, Mr. Victor, from the rostrum. And then the closing act is Ivan Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u110	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. State economic policy must be aimed at raising the real income of the citizens of the country, not at destroying them, but at preserving Ukrainian nature. Sadly, the opposite is true today. Ukraine has been artificially transformed into a raw supplement to successful industrialized economies and a donor of talented engineers and workers for other countries. It's totally unacceptable. The Radical Party team offers a fundamentally different policy. Saving natural resources, increasing Ukraine's natural resources, and enriching the Ukrainian people, not a bunch of people who earn raw exports. You'll see what's going on in the key areas. Lis. Until recently, Ukraine has been one of the largest suppliers of roundwood forests to other countries, especially in Europe, where from our forest our fellow Ukrainians, forced to work, are making ready products that cost 10 times more than a forest round. I am very grateful to all colleagues in Parliament who have supported Oleg Lashk and the Radical Party team to fight for the introduction of a moratorium on the exports of roundwood that we have adopted for 10 years, banning the export of unprocessed wood. The moratorium works hard. Investments in woodworking have more than doubled. By 4 billion dollars a year, exports of finished processed products increased, half a billion additional incomes to the budget, tens of thousands of jobs, and dozens of new productions created throughout Ukraine. This is an example of industrial development in the protection of national interests. But you know what shameful smuggling of roundwood, unfortunately, happens illegally, artificially weakening the moratorium. We compared the data of Ukrainian and European customs and saw that 500,000 tons of Ukrainian roundwood were exported in the form of wood. That's why the Radical Party team led by Oleg Lashk initiated Parliament, and I thank you for adopting this Act on the Criminalization of the Smuggling of Wooden Rounds and the Prohibition of the Export of Wood from Ukraine. And it's very sad that the President of Ukraine has made a commitment to banning the export of wood. In fact, it helps smugglers rob Ukraine and make Ukrainians poor. This is definitely unacceptable. We have to pursue the opposite policy, the policy of protecting national interests, the policy of economic development and the preservation of the natural environment. The situation in the agricultural sector is similar. Look, in the last seven years, the export of grains from Ukraine has tripled. But the simple question is, did Ukrainian peasants get to live three times better?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u111	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u112	Answer: No, no, not again. Rural infrastructure is worn out, obsolete, minimal investment, raw agricultural barons exporting raw materials abroad are booming. The Radical Party team has introduced to Parliament a bill on an agrarian-orphan assembly, which will give each farmer at least 5,000 dollars for each cow he holds. This is real support for animals, Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian farmers, and agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u113	Thank you. And the closing statement is Ribak Ivan Petrovich, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u114	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. The technological catastrophes, the terrible droughts, the floods in Western Ukraine in 2008-2010 are the result of the neglect of the environment. Unfortunately, today, when we consider the proposal of the environmental committee of the Ukrainian Parliament to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings on the state of the environment in Ukraine, we have a new technological catastrophe in Ukraine. It was tonight that there was a waste of harmful substances in an area beyond the control of the Ukrainian authorities, in Crimea, on the Crimean Titan, of harmful substances into the air. The authorities of the occupied Crimea do not respond to these things. So far, environmental inspections have gone to Herson to conduct appropriate laboratory studies on the impact of the appropriate technological accident in the Hersonian region. In the near future, we will learn the consequences, but unfortunately, Ukrainian authority is not allowed in Crimea. We have similar situations in the territory of the occupied Donbas, where environmental disasters take on more and more shifts every day. But neither the Ukrainian authorities, nor representatives of environmental inspection, nor representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Policy of Ukraine, nor international representatives of the Minsk Humanitarian Group are allowed to enter the mines that are currently being flooded. They are flooded in Donbasa and have a serious impact on the environment not only in the Donetsk region but also in Ukraine as a whole. That is why the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Disaster Management adopted a decision, and in the order of the legislative initiative for the consideration of the Supreme Council was introduced into the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State Environmental Protection Policy of Ukraine: Status and Perspectives for Development", which is proposed to be held on 5 December 2018. Unfortunately, Mr. Andrey, I don't know if Parliament is going to make the right decision today, but I think that we will again, even if we fail to make the right decision today, there will be no positive decision, we will soon, our committee will make such a draft decree again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-05-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Thank you for raising a very important question, and we were able to discuss it from the high parliamentary rostrum. And you've rightly pointed out that if we don't support it now, it's easy to move the decision and accept it any day. And so that the members of the committee don't consider it a problem -- the rejection of the decision. And I'm asking my fellow national MPs, we're done here. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on the subject of "National Environmental Protection Policy of Ukraine: Status and Perspectives of Development" (No. 8624). I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the environmental committee and to support this decision. Please take up your jobs. So please vote and please support, we vote. [[13:25:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. But as we have spoken to the head of the committee with Mr. John, you will pass the verdict, and we will be able to examine it. After all, we have discussed it fully. We will be able to conduct a brief discussion and support it. So, colleagues, we've exhausted the order of the day. I want to remind you that tomorrow is a very important block of national security and defense. In particular, tomorrow we plan if there's a committee decision, and consider the changes to the Statute, which envisions a military welcome: "Glory to Ukraine!".. And yet another important point to be made in military titles is the phrase "sir," "mister colonel," as in the ancient Ukrainian tradition. And so I urge everyone tomorrow at 10 o'clock to come to the hall to continue our work. And today, everyone has a successful and fruitful work on the committees. We need to work on a lot of drafts. My special request for the day order for the entire session to be worked out. And I remind you, the committee heads are meeting tonight. I'm inviting all the committee heads to a committee meeting to plan work for the fall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall.
