ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u1	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. All national deputies please return to the Hall. You're ready, aren't you? So, honourable national deputies, please register to attend the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:05:24]] 359 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to inform you that there was a working meeting during the break. And before the opening of the session, Alekseiev Sergey Olegovich informed me that the compromise proposals on the final vote of the law had been agreed. As I understand it, it will be suggested to go back to the line. But in order for us to have a successful vote, we need Alexeiev Sergey Olegovich to make the subject and the essence of the vote very clear to the people’s deputies. And it's also very important that everyone in this room be ready to vote. Convinced, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court is the most important decision we have to make today. It is vital that we reconcile positions and make a united decision, colleagues. So I want everyone's attention, and I'm also asking everyone for a high level of discipline in the hall. Now I'm giving five minutes to represent the vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Alexei Sergey Olegovich. After his report, we will consult, perhaps exchange our thoughts, and go to the vote, or we may proceed immediately to the vote. Please, Sergey Olegovich, make a thorough explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u2	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, today we have been looking at all of the amendments to one of the most important bills in fact on the final day of the session, which is final, as I said, for the establishment of an anti-corruption court. And it is very important for us that this bill meets all the best standards of justice so that it meets the vision of our foreign partners, which we have repeatedly expressed. Also during the consideration of the bill, a number of rights that were taken into account by the committee were put in place to confirm, but they did not find confirmation. Now during the meeting that took place on the lunch break, from 2 to 4, between the representatives of the committee, the factions, we agreed on the question that we are going back to the vote on almost all rights, except for one moment, this is related to the order of automatic redistribution of cases if the court is alone. The legal person is the court, but the courtroom is at a great distance, it could be an interdisciplinary court. And this is the only way we're not going to bring them back, because we're not going to make it uncomfortable for citizens not to go to court for 100-120 kilometers. What's important is the rights that apply to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The point is that there is a letter from the International Monetary Fund that was suggested to return to the first. Before the first reading of the Presidential Bill. It's a 168. This wording corresponds to what the International Monetary Fund requires. It's also number 160, it's changing to the Final Orders on the validity of the bill, and it's more technical. And now, I see that all the deputies are already coming together, and I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to place all these approvals, and we will continue to consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u3	Sergey Olegovich, I ask you clearly under the stenogram to repeat the lines to which you propose to return. Under the stenogram, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u4	Yeah. I. Now I propose to return to the rights that have been taken into account by the committee, and I now name their numbers and ask you to support their vote. This is number 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 57, 59, 60, 176, 177, 178, 188, 182, 183, 186, 188, 191, 194, 195, 197, 198, 199, and 200. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u5	And about the right hand side of the next one. What do you propose to put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u6	Now I'm asking you to put all the voting rights I've called.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u7	Thank you. Colleagues, do you understand the position of the committee? Please, one more minute. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the number of factions to vote, and in a few minutes we'll move on to the vote. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u8	Colleagues, once again organizational. As soon as I read out the license numbers that were taken into account by the committee placed for confirmation in the hall, they were not confirmed. I ask you now to put all these rights by one vote for confirmation, and then to vote on the rights that apply to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, this is number 160 and 168. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u9	So that's the form you take, right? Is there something you need to read, Mr. Sergey? Please take up your jobs, colleagues. I see there's not enough people's deputies in the hall. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. The discussion is over. The discussion is over. Colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall. I see in the hall, not all deputies are yet. This is the most important vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. I would like to stress what the committee representative has to say to all the amendments that have been supported by the committee so that we can support them now, that is, the committee is asking to support their decision. During the discussion, a number of them were beaten during the vote. The committee proposes that we all return to them, confirm those who were supported by the committee, and then separately vote on the 168 and 160 in the edition, which will be proposed by Alekseyev Sergey Olegovich. So separate votes, separate votes, a return to the rights that sounded, of course. First, return to the right, confirm them, and then separate the 160 and 168 to the right. I'm listening to Sergei, he's recommending me to do this, Mr. Ruslan. Now he's leading the question. Is there anything else you need to read? No, it's not. So, colleagues, under the transcript, have read a list of the rights to which the committee proposes to return. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Under the transcript, Sergey Olegovich read the list of rights, and I'm actually going to put this list to the vote, which was read under the transcript by the deputy chairman of the committee, Aleksei Sergey Olegovich. And I now ask everyone to take part in the vote and vote, colleagues. Take up jobs, colleagues, so that everyone can be there during the vote. So now I'm going to put the vote back and then confirm. Colleagues, we've had a lot of broadcasts about this law, and I would like them to be confirmed by a vote in the hall and by a presence in the most important hall. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal from Alexeiev Sergey Olegovich, deputy chairman of the committee, to return to the consideration of those rights that have been supported by the committee and which have been sounded by it, now every vote will matter. And I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support the proposal for return, please vote, please support, colleagues, we vote, every vote, we vote carefully, please support, we vote. [[16:17:03]] For 247 We're back. 247. Decision taken. And now I'm asking for confirmation of those amendments that were read by Sergey Alexei under the transcript and that are supported by the committee, and I ask you to vote and please confirm. Vote, colleagues, every vote, please confirm, please vote, please confirm, vote. [[16:17:37]] For 228 Confirmed, colleagues, these revisions. Now separately, separately, first line 168. I'm asking Sergei Olegovich to make 168 calls, and I'm asking you to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, the substance of 168 cases is that all cases that are under investigation by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau are referred to the High Anti-Corruption Court, if they are in the first instance, they are referred to the first instance, in an appeal, to appeal. I can read it on an editorial basis right now. Then please give me some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u11	Please enable Sergey Olegovich to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u12	To supplement paragraph 1, 2 with the following sub-paragraph "in": "Paragraph 20 with the symbol 2 of Section XI "Transitional Positions" in the following wording: The following judges (except the investigating judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court) have stopped taking up criminal proceedings against crimes referred to in the Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and the courts of the first instance (except the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court) - indictments, the enforcement of medical measures, and the release from criminal liability in the criminal proceedings. Such concerns and indictments are filed in accordance with the order of the investigating judges of the High Anticorruption Court, the Supreme Anticorruption Court. The other one. The Courts of Appeal (except the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of AntiCorruption) have stopped taking up appeals in criminal proceedings against the crimes referred to in the Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Anticorruption. Third. Controversy in criminal proceedings concerning crimes referred by this Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which have come before the investigating judges and which have not been considered until the day of the commencement of the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, is referred to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court for consideration by the judicial investigators of this court. Four. Criminal proceedings against crimes referred by this Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, before the courts of the first appeal, which are to be brought before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court before the date of the commencement of the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, are to be brought before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court for review in accordance with the Code. Fifth. The charges of criminal proceedings against the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in criminal proceedings relating to the crimes referred to in this Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court are made under the rules of jurisdiction provided for in this Code. Six. The application for review of the new circumstances of the court decisions passed by the courts of the first and second instance before the day of the commencement of the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court in criminal proceedings against crimes brought before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court shall be submitted to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down." In this context, paragraph "v" is considered to be paragraph "g".
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u13	Right now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, this drafting of the bill is fully in line with the IMF requirements, where. It is fully in line with IMF requirements, where the IMF requests to return to the first draft of the Presidential Bill. I now, dear fellows, am now in wording read out as it was in the first law. Presidential Bill. So this is a percentage of what the IMF is doing. If we're gonna be anything. It doesn't change that, in general, it doesn't change that. Well, essentially it doesn't change, we're essentially left with the same adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u15	Let's hear 160 right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u16	160 lashes. This one. Colleagues, allow me. Paragraph 1 should read as follows: "This law takes effect from the day following its publication, except for sub-paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of this chapter, which takes effect from the day of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." This could be with technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u17	So just now, Alekseus Sergey Olegovich read the 168th and 160th revisions. I'll put them separately for the vote: 168th, then 160th. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and get ready. According to the reporter, this is what the IMF's decision is all about. And I, my colleagues, am betting on the vote of 168, which I just heard under the transcript of Sergey Olegovich Alekseyev. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Vote, please support, vote. [[16:23:22]] For 184 Colleagues, we've seen how many voices. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Sergey to give me an idea that he can get most of it in the hall. Tell us, Sergey, whether you're going to put 160 or you're going to make a sound. Please, Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u18	A proposal that, according to the Head, may take on the majority in the room, the content is the same, but it's not a 100% first edition of the Presidential Bill, as stated in the IMF letter. I can read it, I can read it. To complete the second paragraph of section III, "Final Positions" of paragraph 12 of this substance, paragraph 12: "Subparagraphs "a" and "x" of paragraph 3 of section VI, "Percentage and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Act "On a Higher Anti-Corruption Court" shall be inserted in the following edition, and paragraphs 2, 22 and 23 of the first part of article 3 shall be inserted in the following wording: "20) The Court of Appeal is the appropriate Court of Appeal, within the jurisdiction of which the Court of First Instance is the court of first instance, which has adopted the contested court decision, as well as the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, as regards the decisions of the Supreme Court of Anti-Corruption, which have been approved as the Court of First Instance, as well as the decisions of the other courts of the first instance, which were approved before the proceedings of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in criminal proceedings relating to crimes referred to in the Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." "22. The Court of First Instance is a local general court which has the right to pass a sentence or to order the order for the closure of criminal conduct, as well as the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in criminal proceedings against the offences referred to in this Act, and the Court of Appeal in the case provided for in this Act." "23. The judge is the head, the deputy head, the judge of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Anti-Corruption Court, the Court of Appeal, the local general courts, which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine on a professional basis, are authorized to exercise justice, as well as the jury." Then the whole text that I just read -- this is 160 revisions -- this text was completed. 168th, sorry, 168 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u19	So, colleagues, please take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, now I'm putting in a second edition read by a committee representative. Or are we exchanging thoughts, colleagues? We are at great risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] But it was only factions that exchanged thoughts. We're at a very high risk, colleagues, not supporting IMF requirements. I'm asking you, colleagues, to exchange thoughts on factions so that we know how to act. These are the most important revisions, and that's why I'm asking for Peter Dustenka's Block, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. Prepare Bourbuck. Let's exchange thoughts so we don't crash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u20	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! We know clearly that our international partners, as well as all those involved in the drafting of this law for the second reading, know that the documents even indicate the wording, the so-called description of how this amendment should look. And it's very clear that we have to go back to the first edition that was proposed by the President of Ukraine. So, your honors, we're going to support 160 revisions and 168 revisions, but in the way that they are in the first draft of the law, because that's exactly what was agreed with international partners and, as far as I know, is fixed in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u21	Thank you. Maxim Burbak, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, today we are correcting the mistake that has been made by Parliament recently. And we must bring into line the bill on the creation of a High Anti-Corruption Court to the proposals of our international partners. Or I can say that cooperation with international financial organizations will hamper the economic collapse that may occur in the fall of this year. So, honourable colleagues, let's all focus, calm down and vote in favour of the text that was proposed by the drafter of the bill, which was agreed by the committee of profile in order for us to come to a positive decision, was over 226 votes, and we could continue to work with our international financial organizations and partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u23	Thank you. Opposition Block, Dudenkov, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u24	Dear Ukrainian citizens, first of all, I am addressing you, not this room. How can you observe this theatre of absurdity, this propaganda that is taking place around the anti-corruption court vote? You see, half the bill is read out of a voice, some adjustments. I'm a lawyer myself, but I don't know what even a voice reads. And I'm pretty sure that most of the room that's now pressing on the green buttons, supporting these proposals from the voice, they understand something. And the point is that there is no desire to fight corruption in principle, and there is no desire to create an independent anti-corruption institution. So the opposition block faction in this farce is not going to participate, but once again it stresses the need to follow the procedure established by the Rules. And your actions are not based on the need to create an independent institution that is formed not by the International Monetary Fund but by participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u25	Thank you. I just want to point out that the 168, read by Alexeiev, is in the table. He just read it. It's not an adjustment that's changed from what's in the table. He just read it out loud again. Please, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u26	I refer to my fellow MPs. Remember what I said, you'll be ashamed of what you're saying here. From the highest parliamentary rostrum you say that this text of the law is in line with the IMF, this text of the law is consistent with international partners, this text of the law is consistent with someone else. When will you and the Ukrainians get along? When do you remember that you are the Parliament of Ukraine, not the branch of the International Monetary Fund? [[Applause]] You're telling us that we need these laws to avoid an economic collapse. We will avoid economic collapse under one condition: when we radically change economic policy, when we bring people home, when we restore our own economy, when Ukrainians will earn money in their own country, and when Ukraine will not be run by puppets from the outside. Ukraine must be ruled by Ukraine! Ukrainians should live decently in their country and laws should be adopted for Ukrainians, not for the IMF or anyone else! You're humiliating Ukraine! You humiliate every Ukrainian when you put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u27	From the "Fatherland" faction, Sergey Vlasenko from the place. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u28	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the last edition read by the committee representative, it first reproduces the first reading. So that's what the BP faction wants. But second, it solves an artificial collision that occurs if we automatically, of course, refuse to edit the first reading. So in order to get back to the correct way of editing the first reading, which is what an active parliament wants, we need to support what Alexei's last reading. This is consistent with the legal system. This is verified between factions. And this corresponds to getting back to the first reading. There's no problem. This was due to the fact that the law was passed, and it was balanced compared with the first reading. And we need to make a technical adjustment, no more of that. She was read by a committee representative when he was last in the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u29	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Egor Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u30	We want to draw the attention of the people's deputies that once Parliament has tried to deceive. And that ended with society seeing fraud, our international partners seeing fraud. And they all said, "We don't take lies." The editing of an editorial that was read by Alexei is actually the result of a very serious, careful verification of the whole law, so that there is no manipulation. Now that the President's representative is screaming with a terrible voice, "no," well, that will be the consequences for the President first and all those who try to reintroduce Parliament into deception. The amendment proposed is very simple: All cases that are brought before an anti-corruption court have been brought before an anti-corruption court since its creation. All of it. It's a very clear and clear decision, which, in fact, was the idea of an anti-corruption court. Do not let your feet wipe again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u31	From the "Will of the People" Group, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u32	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, "The will of the people" supported all the laws: both the anti-corruption court, and the declarations, supported all the DBRs, and the NAB, and the SAPs, so in general, we will vote in favour of this bill, the anti-corruption authorities in need of our state. But no one can usurp through regulations today. At a time when they're standing right now, I'm just under the Ministry of Coal Industry, standing miners, demanding wages, not being able to feed their families, not being able to feed their children. September 1st, they go to school, September 1st, take their children to kindergartens, there's no pay, there's no pay today. "The will of the people," Our Land, also requires Minister Nasalik here today to explain why they still haven't paid 1.5 billion dollars to miners? Why did the gassies take the bonus and charge $46 million today, and this money could go to miners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u33	Thank you. Rebirth Group. Rebirth Group? No one will speak. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now. A representative, deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Alekseyev Sergey Olegovich, will now make a proposal that he will propose as a result of the discussion. Please, Sergey Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u34	Colleagues, who had just voted for the first time in the 168th edition, were fully in line with the first draft of the presidential bill required by the IMF. The second time I made a statement about what our colleagues added, yes, they were specifying the names of the courts, the terms and so on. It's essentially the same thing, but wording is, of course, different text. I'm suggesting let's put 168 revisions with what I've read now, maybe it'll get the required number of votes. Thank you. With what I read the second time, the second time. Yes, where there is a definition of what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u35	So on the proposal of Alekseiev Sergija Olegovich, I'm putting to the vote 168 of the amendment that he read for the second time under the transcript. Do you understand the position? Got it. So he should not repeat under the transcript he read again after the failed vote. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, each voice is actually what we talked about in collaboration with our partners. So I ask everyone to vote carefully. So 168 revisions in the edition, which was read by Aleksiev Sergey Olegovich. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice. We vote responsibly and carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:37:47]] For 204 We didn't make it. I'll do it again. I'm asking you to show the factions. So, Peter Poshenko Block 89, People's Front 47, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 21, Radical Party. "Paternal" is 11, "Will of the People" is 5, "The Rebirth Party" is 2, non-fractional is 26. Colleagues, you would. If everyone understood the consequences of such a vote, perhaps it would be more effective. If only everyone understood the consequences. I'm going to all groups and factions: analyze. I'm going to do it again. I ask everyone to analyze and vote. Everyone saw the result. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please, yes, I'll put it back on, please. I ask you, I address all factions, all groups to understand the responsibility of this vote. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support Amendment 168 in that edition read by Alexeiev Sergey Olegovich in the second edition, which is supported by all factions. Please vote and please support, colleagues, this is a key responsibility. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. Back to the 168, yeah. [[16:39:56]] For 216 Not everyone's here yet. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please, colleagues, invite me to the hall. There are 10 votes missing. Why don't you come to the hall? I'm giving Sergio Olegovich Alekseyev 30 seconds on the line. Come to the hall, we're short 10 votes. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, this bill will not work without this amendment. We, if we don't effectively vote on this amendment, we've wasted our time. We wasted our time today, wasted our time preparing. The request to support this amendment is because it is an important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u37	Thank you. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote now. I would like to emphasize that this is a key issue of 168 in that edition read by Alekseus Sergey Olegovich. I would like to point out that the consequences for the non-voting country may be too great. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm going to read again on the factions of the last vote. The factions. So show me. "Peter Prashenka Block" – 92 (more than possible), "The People's Front" – 51 (more than I think), "The Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21 (I think you can get more), "The Fatherhood" – 12 (more than I think), "The will of the people" – 5 (I think you can do more), "Rebirth" – 7 (let's vote in groups), non-fractional – 27 (I think you can do more). [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Before there are more people in the room, more people in the room, I say. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the 168 in the editorial that read Alexeiev, and I'm asking everyone to vote in favour of getting back to this amendment. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. Every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:42:29]] For 223 Three votes, we're close. Don't leave the hall, don't leave the hall, please. Three people's deputies. I ask everyone to return to the hall. We can't put the country's fate on the discipline of three deputies. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. Once again, all factions will be invited to the Hall. Once again, by factions. The factions of the last vote. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 92, "National Front" – 51, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21 "Fatherhood" – 12, "will of the people" – 10, "Rebirth Party" – 8, "non-fractional" – 27. So, colleagues, three votes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking for discipline in factions. It's a key amendment, consequences too big, colleagues. Three votes, don't play with it. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace right now. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and take jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to regulation 168. And everyone, I stress, I call on everyone to take part in the vote. I ask you to vote, please vote and please support the return. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote for the return. Vote. Colleagues, we support, we vote yes, please support. Vote. Keep it up, fellows. [[16:44:14]] For 231 Decision taken. And I'm putting to the vote amendment 168 returned, yes, to that edition read by Alekseyev Sergey Olegovich after the failed vote, the final edition. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to support 168 revisions in this paper. Every voice, every colleague, we vote. Please support the amendment, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, carefully and responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Everyone, colleagues, please stand by. Please vote. [[16:44:57]] For 231 Copy that. Now I'm betting on the 160th vote, that's the last vote. 160 lashes. Sergei, do you need to read it or not? I've already read it. All right, read Sergei. [[B in m in s a l in]] He read it under the transcript. I've read it. So, we vote, don't leave the hall. I put to the vote 160 revisions in that edition that Alekseyev Sergey Olegovich read under the transcript. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. 160 edits, it's the same key edit. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. No. 160 for. Every voice of a colleague, we vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:45:50.]] For 228 Edit is supported. And now we're moving on to the adoption of the law. Everyone, please be seated, colleagues. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in relation to the adoption of the Law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (No.7441) with those rights that were upheld before the vote during the discussion, in the second reading, and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice. Vote. Please support, we vote. Please support, vote, colleagues, for the law. [[16:46:43]] For 254 The law is passed. My colleagues, I welcome this very responsible and important decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. The Ukrainian Parliament reaffirmed its position in the fight against corruption and in the reform of the judicial system. Comrades, welcome! Hello! And now, we agreed on a meeting that we held, in one minute, now one minute from the factions, then I'll read out the application. One minute from the factions. Please prepare for discussion one minute from the factions. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u38	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to do it again. First. To congratulate everyone on the fact that we have voted for this country’s rightful law. But I also want to reaffirm once again the position of the Peter Prashenko Party faction, which is also a key issue of the renewal of the CLTC, which almost all the representatives in this room have promised, which is enshrined in the Coalition Agreement. This morning, we publicized our position that we are ready to respond to one of our factions and thus balance the composition of those candidates who will be presented and who will vote in the session room. Let us now ask all other factions to support our position and resolve this issue today. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u39	Thank you. Indeed, we raised this issue during the discussion and agreed that all factions would speak up. Please, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. All factions, please take part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that at last we find a consensus in this room to resolve the main issue: this is the appointment of a new composition of the CLTC. The issue of updating the CLTC is an incontrovertible issue, there is no discussion here. And I'm just glad that we finally started looking at it in the right direction -- once, openly, democratically and transparently. We welcome the initiative of our colleagues from WFP, and I think what we've been saying is that the list of new members of the CLTC should be in line with the Paris recommendations, it's taken into account. All those proposals put forward by the President for the vote, there's a quota. "Paternity," the Radical Party quota, is from BPP candidates, from the People's Front, from Self-Help, from groups. I guess so. But we all need to have 226 votes on board for resignation and 226 votes for what's been said.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u41	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u42	And 226 votes for each candidate. So I think we need to hear who our colleagues from the WFP are going to call off together, and then clearly discuss the issue of full voting on all the candidates proposed by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u43	Thank you. Opposition Block, Dludenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u44	Thank you very much. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, the struggle for elections has already begun, and it has begun. It's been going on for weeks. You see, there are a lot of social protection bills, including the payment of wages to miners, pension insurance, they are not considered. Now, the fight is going around the KVC compound. Whoever controls the CTC will potentially control the results of the elections. The coalition's representative said very well that all factions that are former or valid members of the European Ukraine coalition have quotas. But I would like to point out, instead, that the two candidates from the Opposition Block that we have delegated to the Central Electoral Commission are not included in the formation of this composition. It's ignoring the rights of the opposition, and it tells us who we have the opposition and who we have the coalition and the supporters of this coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u45	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u46	The right to choose is a right granted by the Lord God. No one has the right to take away their will, their voice, from the Ukrainians. President Prashenko, who has filed an application where he actually usurpes the composition of the CTC, deprives the Ukrainians of their right to free choice. They want to fake the election, they want to draw the result. And for that, people have to pay a few billion dollars from the government budget to have a transit server somewhere, a left, and draw results in the President's office. We're not going to let President Dusty steal people's voices, we're not going to let them falsify the elections, we're not going to let them choose the CIA, which is going to be dependent on power and which is going to falsify the results of the elections. Because we don't want new venues as a result of President Prashenko's crimes, we want a strong country, economic development, an increase in the welfare of Ukrainians and a restoration of peace in Ukraine. Without order, without discipline, without strong and honest authority, there will be no single, free, independent and peaceful country. That's why we're on the lookout.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u47	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, let's be honest and honest. Peter Poroshenko apparently created this situation by bringing 14 candidates to 13 places without a proportional representation of all political factions, as required by Ukraine’s international commitments. I would like to remind everyone that the subject of submission is not a BPT faction, with all due respect for the largest faction of Parliament, the subject of submission is President Poroshenko. Give me a letter of resignation, and I am confident that Parliament will consider this situation in exactly five minutes, and there will be no problems. Why every time we create an artificial problem, we then propose to Parliament some quasi-variants to get out of this situation with only one goal, so that Peter Alexiovich, God forbid, loses his face. So he lost his face a long time ago. Together more, together less, no one will see. That's why the President's motion to appeal is being considered and voted on, and there are no questions. The Fatherland faction will support the update of the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u49	From the Self-Help faction of Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u50	Today, it was not a mistake, but a fraud in the Anticorruption Court Act. And we don't have to be happy about that vote, because we'll be happy when the anti-corruption court comes to work and condemns the first corrupter to rob that state. What are we doing now? We are again correcting the fraud of the Presidential Administration and the President. We are today, if the President and if his faction are taking this redundant candidate and who he's taking away, the Self-Help faction is voting for the CFC because the CBC needs the country. This is the CTC, which is today, which is criminal and illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u51	So, colleagues, Victor Bondar's Rebirth Group, and then the will of the people. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. We understand that the issue of CEVC is extremely important for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine's politics, but it's such a conspiracy, and it's been three months to reach some consensus. Unfortunately, we see a game of ambition and we don't see what is normal compromises when each party, each faction, is guaranteed to be represented by its representatives on the Central Election Commission. So we think that the negotiation process should be completed, and then we can guarantee that every person sitting in the room, and every party that exists in Ukraine, has a clear guarantee that it will be represented in the Central Electoral Commission that elections will take place on an honest basis, not a falsified one. And so we propose, given this situation, that we now bring the issue to the fore, yet more relevant -- the question of paying off the salaries of the workers of the olenergo in Ukraine, Bill 7390 is still the time to adopt. This is more relevant because thousands of people are getting released, and Ukraine is going to run out of power in Ukraine, because the skyscrapers are shutting everything down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u53	Thank you. Eugene Ribczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u54	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv The question of the new KPC, gentlemen, is not a matter of life for an ordinary Ukrainian. The question of the new composition of the CLTC is the question of the life of the old political elites, gentlemen. The old KPC warehouse had to be released long ago, back in the 14th year. We're up to 18, let's finally do this today. I absolutely agree with the self-help leader, who has to call off 13 people on the 14th in order to pass 13. But I don't care if it's from the President or anyone else, because when the new composition of the CBC, I repeat it, will see the real score of the real winner, he won't be able to do anything anymore. We must vote with certainty, for this is the future. It's about the future, but it's gonna hurt. For the first time since 2006, there has been no money in power for children’s Eurobending. Kids this year, we're like.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u55	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u56	We seem to be integrating ourselves, but they didn't go to this famous festival. There was no money. Last year I sponsored Mr. Chevchenko, our colleague. No money was found this year. I want this money in this room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u57	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've completed the exchange of thoughts from factions and groups. Now I want to report that I have received two applications. One of the Radical Party and Self-Help, they're ready. And "Paternals" and "Paternals," I'm sorry. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. I'll give Oleg Lazka three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u58	Colleagues, I'm asking you to step away from some high-level questions and come down to the ground. In 2008, Andriy Poltavec killed six people in Kharkiv, drunk at the wheel. He got 10 years in prison. In 2015 he was released. The man who killed six people was released in 2015. And in 2017, the killer was again held drunk for driving! After he was in prison after killing six people in Kharkiv, he was again caught drunk driving in 2017. They gave him another term. This year, in June, he went out on an amnesty. Six people who were driving the killer took their lives, and then he got drunk again for driving and went out on an amnesty! Who will then tell me that our proposals to establish the dragon’s responsibility for driving drunk killers are too harsh?Oh, my God! Tell your relatives of six people killed in Kharkiv or the relatives of nine people killed by Haretz, who were under drug abuse in the same Kharkiv! Or the relatives of three and a half thousand Ukrainians who died last year because of the accident, half of them because of drunk drivers! They kill people. Then they're redeemed. Then they go out for amnesty. You can't bring back children, men, women. They bought their amnesty to get back behind the wheel and kill someone again. I want us to stop this war on the road. We try to stop the killing of innocent people simply because he sheds his eyes just because he does not feel responsible. Anyone who is drunk should remember one simple truth: He is driving, and one is in prison. To prison! And if you kill people for life in prison, not for ransom, and after two years of amnesty, it goes out. I am addressing Parliament: in September, to vote in a second reading, a law that sets out the dragon’s responsibility for driving drunkards, which will enable thousands of lives to be saved, which will not allow anyone else like Andrew Poltavec to get out of prison after they kill six people. Those who commit such crimes because of drunkenness, for lack of accountability, for lack of conscience, should never again get behind the wheel; they should not kill anyone else; they should not bring home tears, sorrow, calamity, and death. And that's Parliament's responsibility. The one who does not vote is responsible for the deaths of thousands of Ukrainians on our roads. Enough with the death! Ukrainians must live!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u59	The next statement for a break from two factions is "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The Will of the People." But this time they call for a real break. For 15 minutes. That is, two factions require, according to the Rules, a real break of 15 minutes. And that's why, according to the law, I'm calling it a 15-minute break. At 5:17 a.m., please return to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u60	So, colleagues, it's been 20 minutes. We're expecting our colleagues. And I want to let you know that we have a day-to-day issue of inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Among them are two questions of 8487 and 8487-1, as well as 8488, which was addressed yesterday. But before we go any further, after the break, I'm giving three minutes to give a speech to the head of the Peter Prashenko bloc. And I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. Colleagues, please call all national deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! There has just been a meeting of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, where we have once again consistently supported our position regarding the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission. As you know, this morning we sounded our proposal, which is to remove the obstacles that. Or the obstacles that have been discussed on the way to the renewal of the CLTC, as a faction we are prepared not to support one of our candidates during the vote, thus allowing Parliament to vote for 13 candidates in the Central Electoral Commission, updated. We listened very carefully to the speeches of our colleagues from this rostrum and heard from the Self-Help representatives, if I'm not mistaken, the Fatherland and other factions about what please be consistent, give us names. Yes, we remain consistent. We have spoken very carefully right now the names recommended by our faction, and we have decided that in this room we will exclude Lotük Olga Stepanovna from this list. So right now we're publicly testifying to this, it's a very professional specialist, it's a very respectable and respectable person, it's staying on our team, it's going to work for the country. But given that the situation needs to be unlocked, we've made this decision, and now, Andry Volodymyrovich, we're asking you to place on the rating vote the readiness of the session room to vote for the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission, bearing in mind that the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka has consistently voiced its position and at the request of other factions, at the request of other factions, has given us names as we have promised. And if I'm not mistaken, no obstacles will be found now. So let's put this to a rating vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have another discussion. Please, Maxim Burbak. Maxim Burbak, People's Front. Colleagues, but before that, Mr. Maxim, I'll take the line one minute before that. Colleagues, pay attention! I want everyone's attention. We have 32 minutes to complete the session. Next. We'll continue for 15 minutes. It'll be 40 minutes. The next questions are the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles. Yesterday, Eugene publicly asked me to ask. Arthur, I'm not betting, I'm informing you what's next on the agenda. In my logic, we might be able to consider these questions in half an hour. But let him decide how we should be. Please, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I very much welcome the decisions of our colleagues in the BPP coalition and I think that the main coalition on voting for the renewal of the CWC has been overtaken, because now we know that there will be 13 proposals, 13 candidates for 13 posts. I think that now with our colleagues in this sessionary room, which is in the President's hands, with the Self-Help faction, the Fatherland, with the Radical Party, we can talk to the groups with the President of Ukraine, who has submitted this submission, this is a question, a vote, because now we see that there is no warning in our colleagues in the session room. And the second. It would be irresponsible now that the half-empty session room is on such an important issue. But I'm addressing you all in this session room, there are people on the street who are asking us to adopt a bill the next day that will regulate their questions about machines with foreign registration. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u64	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u65	In order to keep the time we have 45 minutes, we spend as best we can for our citizens, let's put it into the agenda and adopt a bill in the first reading that deals with the issues of so-called 'euroblies'. Let's get our faces back to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u66	From the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u67	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Tell me, please, are you so concerned about the interests of the people of Ukraine, and why are you not putting in the hall the issue of payment to miners? I have to tell you, who today can say that the session hall is a pervasive market. Nobody? Do you have a pair of thimbles among you? If there's a tipper, vote for the CBC. Do you not understand what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe said to you, resolution? The representatives of all the factions, that's what a "boy" is, we're shooting the best expert so he won't be on the Central Election Commission. Who do you think you're putting in there? What are you fooling the people? The last day for today. You know, as they say, let's get it out again. No questions about who's having problems, take off your pants and pull out, and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u68	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u69	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! My great countryman, unfortunately, already dead John Stepanovich Plush, once said the genius of saying, "Don't push it." I want to talk to my colleagues at the BP. Listen to the wise counsel of John Stepanovich. Ukrainians, what's going on? Today, there is no violation of the law of candidates for the CTC in the hall, the President has not called off the surplus, and the BPT says they will not vote in favour of the bar. But there's still an intrigue, there's a competition, there's a violation of the Central Electoral Commission election procedure, which will in the future lead to a lawsuit in court, a confession of illegal selection of the CIA, and three months before the presidential election, we'll be out of CBC, that's what the BPT Faction is proposing. So obey the law and the Constitution. The president has to transfer the application, it has to be legal, and then we vote. Do not instigate the impermeable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u70	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, first of all, I stress once again that everything that is now happening was created by Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko with his hands. This time. The other one. What's going on now? Look, the BP faction is dropping off its President because he made these submissions, and they say, and we're not voting for it. That is, the President, whose name this faction bears, submits, and they say we will not vote for it. That's why the Fatherland faction is consistent and says the initiator of submission today is the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine must call off whoever he deems necessary to call back to make the situation 13 to 13. But once again, these 13 should include representatives of all parliamentary factions and groups, as required by the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So even so, I'd like to ask the President, with a small request, to make real independents.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u72	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u73	Involve independent, uninvolved professionals, not people who will handle the Dusty in manual mode, forging elections. Just like he's doing right now, in the local elections. So please, in a legal way, and the hall will support the upgrade of the CEVC in one second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u74	From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk. And please, a little bit of emotion below, I have a big request.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u75	Dear fellow MPs! Today we have to do it and forget it. This is what we all promised. The C.V.C.C. needs to be changed anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u76	Victor Bondar from Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u77	I want to, my fellow Members, we want to state that this is certainly an important question, but unfortunately, we have lost practically the last days instead of solving the issues of people who are extremely relevant today: it's the urgent payment of wages to miners, the resolution of the issue of salaries on the skyline, the resolution of the question of "eurolochers" which is being struck and blocked here today by the Supreme Council. We've come into a political impasse, and now we're being asked to violate the Rules, and put at risk the composition of the CLTC that can be voted in the Hall through this procedure, and more specifically, the pseudo-legal procedure. So we see the situation and we suggest that we get out of the political crisis, stop, move the issue to the beginning of September, prepare peacefully, vote. And today, as long as there's half an hour of important time, to vote for the extremely important issues that miners, skynergo workers, Europeans, and so on, as long as they're all gathered. And listen, it'll be smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u78	Thank you. By "The Will of the People" Eugene Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u79	"The will of the people" isn't ready to wait another year to vote for the CLTC. We haven't changed it in four years. Let's change it in half an hour. It's totally within our reach. This time. The other one. It's very important. They're not here, some they haven't seen. Who ever saw members of the C.V.C.C., would you please tell me? That's what Sella said she saw. Give them my regards. We are ready to vote, and we will vote if there are 13 seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u80	Irina Heraszczenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u81	Dear journalists, distinguished voters! We've just seen what's actually happening in Parliament for four years when they're trying to shift the head from a diseased head to a healthy one. And they're doing this to people who want to do the parliamentary republic, and they're making this mess forever. The president has already submitted twice to the CTC. And starting in March of the month, we hear the ointments every day: they're checked, they're read by e-declarations, something else. Finally, today, when the last barrier is removed, yes, we are told, but no, and today it is impossible, because transport laws need to be voted on. I want to remind the residents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Friday is actually the last sessional day. Tomorrow let's vote on these laws, and the staff issues are being built without a turn. That's why we're calling for a CTC vote today. You say it doesn't bother people. So I want to remind you that all factions require us to vote, that's very right, the election of local communities. Who should guide them? And still the C.V.C.K. of Janukovic's name.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u83	And still the C.V.C.K. of Janukovic's name? I'm just curious about the position of fighters with Yanukovich of the People's Front, who are inventing 105th revenge. [[Noise Nodes]] That's why. John Stepanovich Plush was mentioned here, and he spoke another phrase. You know, I've loved to mention that I'm really worried about Honduras, and you're not. Don't scratch Honduras. Let's vote for the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u84	Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, there's a lot of emotion, but let's work clearly on the laws that we've adopted that work for many years in the Supreme Council. Article 6 of the Central Elections Commission Act, which states that the President of Ukraine, in his application to serve as members of the commission, takes into account the proposals made by the MP factions and groups formed in the current convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The president took into account all the proposals made by MPs and groups. He can't help but carry 14 of them. What happens next? The 85th article of the Constitution goes on to take effect, which states that after the President has submitted the procedure, and the procedure has been followed, the Supreme Council shall determine and vote by vote. And it goes on to say, "If the candidates for the Central Electoral Commission are part of the fourth, article 209 "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u87	That's our rule. If the candidates for the Central Electoral Commission have not received the necessary number of votes for the people's deputies, the Supreme Council will then invite the President of Ukraine to make submissions regarding the new candidates. That's what we're offering you. We won't vote for one, we won't. Vote! 13 times 13. The President has his own procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u88	Please, and a closing statement. Arthur Gerasimov, please, one minute. Replica, he was mentioned. Arthur Gerasimov was mentioned as a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u89	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I remember the story from CBC. First they said we didn't want to vote against the anti-corruption court. Vote. Then 300 votes were sought to free patriots from the CBC. Let's go. After that, 13 out of 14 are pariahs. Then ask for a last name. There is no reason not to vote for the CLTC. And the simple question is, are you for the updated Central Election Commission or are you old? For the old election commission! And it's not even a matter of updating the CLTC, it's a matter of making promises. Please take a look at the hundreds of interviews that almost all the factions of the Parliament have given to update. In almost all of the updates of the CLTC, that's their promise. And an analysis of the application. You know, a lot of people say something's wrong, it's not true, it's not. 30 seconds. And, you know, you're saying that the officer of Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u90	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u91	Are you saying that Professor Kyevo-Magilian Academy, a well-known lawyer, is that not true? You're saying that Eustignave of Fatherland is wrong? Ephraim's Irina from the front, isn't she? Are you saying that the other one is wrong? So please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, put to the vote the rating issue of joining this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u92	So, colleagues, pay attention. All factions expressed their positions. Now I want to inform you, colleagues. You know, like no one else, I'm a supporter of the fast-track update of the CBC. But according to the law, in three days we should inform all candidates and members of what will be considered. Any violation of the procedure on this matter is the right to file a court order and cancel the CEC. There's no candidate here right now. If we break the procedure at least on the iota, we'll question any choice. Colleagues, now I've got a statement from two factions, Front and Rebirth, for a real break. And I invite all the factions to meet me in my office. I'd like all the factions to meet me in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m1.u93	Colleagues, attention, 6:00. I want to make a message. I just had a meeting with the factions' heads. Most factions, as predicted, said that the issue should be moved, but I will speak from the point of view of the Rules. All members of the CLTC should be present during the examination. They're just not in the hall right now. I called on the factions to continue consultations so that maybe tomorrow we could mobilize people. To do that, we need to consult among the factions’ heads. I now have no grounds for legal or regulatory reasons for continuing the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We colleagues made an extremely important decision today, a conceptual decision. I would like all of us to be proud of that decision, because it is a decision that brings Ukraine to a new level of financial relations. Sadly, though, the time spent on the job is now exhausted. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
