ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. So, are the colleagues ready to register? I ask you to sign up for the plenary session. [[10:05:23]] 351 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, me. Listen to me carefully, Mr. Oleg. We're still finishing the question yesterday, we can't give a break when we discuss the issue. So take your time. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that today is the birthday of our colleague and national deputy Maxim Pavlovich Chicken to welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] And I want to tell you the logic of today. So we are now continuing the draft Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine (No. 6634). We had his full discussion yesterday. Now only the closing word of Oksana Korczynski, as well as the author of Irina Sisoyenko, will be spoken, and we will move on to the decision-making process. Then two decrees are proposed to mark at the national level the 75th anniversary of the beginning of the deportation of indigenous Ukrainians from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, Podlishya, Lubavščina, Western Boykushina. After that, colleagues, the draft law, which we didn't reach on Tuesday, literally didn't come up with the next question, is the law on the adjacent zone. Questions from the security and defence bloc, and I am sure the question that will unite the Hall. Then I'm going to propose the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of those issues that have been discussed and on which decisions have been taken on the committee, in particular the two issues that relate to amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Transport Means, the question of "Europes", and also the amendment to the Tax Code. And, colleagues, I hope that the questions on which the committee has decided and on which the committee is ready to report, we will be able to consider today and we will be able to make decisions on them. I urge everyone, colleagues, to fully mobilize, to work actively and effectively. And I would like to stress that we are starting work on the completion of the draft Law 6634 on Primary Health Care in Family Medicine. And to conclude, I invite, to the floor, to the closing word, the representative of the Corchinian Oxan Health Committee. Please, Mrs. Oksana. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u2	I'm ready. Praise Jesus Christ! Good morning, everyone. We conclude the discussion of yesterday’s bill on primary health care in family medicine (draft 6634). The Supreme Health Council Committee reviewed the bill and supported it when voting on the first reading. The bill is important. We have a few points that we need to work on for a second reading. It has important principles that enable us to achieve the objective of legislative definition of the principles of the functioning and development of family medicine in Ukraine, as well as the legal, organisational, economic and social principles of providing the citizens of Ukraine and other persons in its territory with primary medical care. I am very much asking the House and Mrs. Irina, in closing, to stress again why it is now important that this bill, which helps to resolve the relationship between family doctors and local authorities and municipal institutions, is now important. This is an extremely important bill for all those who today apply to family doctors — 90 percent of the population of Ukraine. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u3	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I'd like to remind you that we have a decision to make in three minutes. We're finishing his consideration of this question, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions would like to invite deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. Irina Sisoyenko's closing statement now, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And I give the final word of the draft Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine (6634) to Irina Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! The question of health care concerns everyone, you and not only the citizens of our state, but also the people's MPs who are in this room right now, including blocking Parliament's rostrum when it comes to very important laws regarding medical services in our country. I address all factions. Medicine must always be beyond politics. I ask you to vote now on the first reading of the bill, which is to save the FAPs in the villages as a medical facility that will be called in the future and work as a family medical center. I ask to vote in favour of this bill because it returns dentists and dental services to the first line. The issue of prevention of early diagnosis is that it is in the future to form medical care for our state. We should not treat but prevent disease, and this bill will enable us to do so in our country. Please give your support and vote in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u5	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I see there's a lot of emotion in the room. We're already starting our work, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, the heads of factions, please mobilize as much as possible. We discussed this bill yesterday after full reading, and we have every reason to move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs, colleagues. So I put to the vote the draft Law on Primary Medical Care in Family Medicine (No. 6634) on the basis of a committee proposal. Based on the base. Please vote. Please support me as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:14:48]] For-126 126 for, colleagues. I will make the following proposal, which I hope will unite the Hall so that we can submit the draft Law on Primary Medical Care at the Foundations of Family Medicine (6634) to the Committee for Rereading. I ask you, colleagues, all to unite around this proposal: to the committee for a second question. I ask everyone to unite and support this proposal. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote the next sentence that the draft Law on Primary Medical Care on the Principles of Family Medicine (No. 6634) should be sent to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote, this is a compromise position, please support, vote. [[10:16:08]] For-166 I'll put it back, colleagues, on my way back. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 73, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 2, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 12. Colleagues, I think that's a good and right offer, that's a compromise offer: for a committee to work on. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs, I'm going to make an offer to go back to the study, to go to the committee for work. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, please come into the hall. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the proposal to return draft Law 6634 to the committee for further work. And I ask everyone to participate in the vote. Colleagues, take up jobs. Please, everyone, take your seats. The first vote is for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for my return. Vote, please. Vote. [[10:17:50]] For-170. I make the third proposal: the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. So, everyone please come into the hall. I am proposing that the draft Law on Primary Medical Care on Family Medicine (6634) should be amended, and that the subject of the legislative initiative should be reinstated. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone so that we don't lose the bill at all. I'm asking everyone in the room to support this, this is a completely compromising proposition. Thus, draft Law 6634 will restore the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:19:02]] For 165 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 67, "National Front" – 57, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 16, "Pradical Party of Oleg Laska – 2, "Papačina" – 0, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 4, non-fractional – 15. Colleagues, we've done everything we can to accept, but unfortunately, there's no support for this proposal. And that's why Bill 6634's draft I'm averting the rejected. Before you go to the next draft of the ruling, before you go to the next draft of the ruling. Mr. Andrey, next draft of the ruling. Before I go over there, I'm going to read out a statement from two factions that are announcing it. They're ready to take a break. Real break, right, no speech? No, there won't be a speech later, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Or a break, or a performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there is no such form. Colleagues, no. I ask you again, are you taking a break or are you taking a gig? So the real break requires two factions: The Radical Party and the Fatherland. So the Radical Party and the Fatherland announce a real break for half an hour. For advice, I am willing to accept all the desiring factions. And I'm calling it a 10:50 break. At 10:50, everyone please arrive in the hall without delay and delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, I want to inform you that at the faction-head meeting, we agreed that we are now giving three minutes to speak out of two factions and then to all the factions' heads in a minute. Heads of factions, I'm addressing you, who has a wish to speak, I'll give you one minute. It's now three minutes, and then we're moving on to the agenda. Now three minutes from the two factions, Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko will be performing. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A few days ago, in Parliament, we, together with colleagues from Fatherland, Self-Help, other factions of Parliament, registered a draft decree repealing the government's decision to raise gas prices and hold a moratorium on higher housing services. We believe that today there is no more pressing issue for millions of Ukrainian families than to stop the actual theft of every Ukrainian family. As long as we had a meeting on the title of Parliament, I received a message from Pavlovrad. There were ice creams in Pavlovgrad last night, but Naftogaz did not give any restrictions on children's gardens, schools, Pavlovgrad hospitals and housing funds. We do. And towns like Pavlovgrad, hundreds of people in Ukraine, who have become hostages of Naftogazu, Naftogazu, Crushing, the government and President Prashenko. They earn their space wages, they pay their space bonuses, and they go into the pockets of every Ukrainian. The decision by the authorities to limit the number of subsidies has led to the fact that 3 million Ukrainians have no right to receive subsidies. The decision to increase gas prices will lead to 50 billion dollars being drawn from Ukrainian pockets. We're told there's no other alternative, because we have to take a loan from the IMF. We say it's a lie. The alternative is economic development. The alternative to the plundering policy of today's government is to increase the production of its own gas. The alternative is to raise wages and pensions and, crucially, it's a fair price for gas, because when we're told that we have to pay the European gas price, Ukrainians have to give European wages and pensions. Our decision to cancel the decision to increase gas prices and the municipal moratorium. increasing public services will enable the protection of millions of Ukrainian families. Today, people are not paying for gas, today people are paying for corruption of power, for their inability to pursue the right economic policy for the benefit of every Ukrainian and every Ukrainian family. Today, people with their own pockets pay space wages for officials, for prosecutors, for judges, for Naftogazu officials at a time when millions of pensioners receive cash pensions, millions of Ukrainian people are forced to go for wages because they are not paid decent wages. So we ask the Ukrainian Parliament to stop this corruption of power, to consider immediately the Order on Cancelling Gas Prices, on the Moratorium on Raising Municipal Services, and thus to protect every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian family from the looting policy of today's government, not to allow people to charge offshore bills, their own pockets, and the Ukrainians to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Wanted to step out of factions. But it's already, except for Radical, isn't it? Who else wants to come out of factions? The Opposition Block, then the Fatherland. From the Opposition Block, Papiev, please, Mikhailo. Then Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Then Oleg Romanovich Barezyuk. Please, Papiev. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The opposition bloc's political party has always spoken and will speak in defense of the people of Ukraine. Decree 867 of the Ukrainian government was adopted illegally, on raising the price of gas. We demand a reduction in the price of gas, we demand that the culprits be brought to justice, who are guilty of falsifying the preparation and publication of Decree 867 in general, so that these people will be punished, and we demand that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine bring this information to the GDR and start a pre-trial investigation. We're asking that the price of gas be reduced, today it's three times the price of gas. And that is why we will stand in the interest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u10	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u11	I want to go to Ukraine right now, to all the people who can hear us right now. Unfortunately, most people in parliament are Mafia. Today, six factions signed a draft regulation to cancel the increase in gas prices by 23.5 percent, to give the Ukrainians gas of Ukrainian production, and then after the cancellation of the increase, to introduce a moratorium on any increase in tariffs. Regrettably, this vital decision for humans is not something that is not put to the vote in this rotten hall, nor is it even allowed for a committee to consider it. Because the question of the people in this room is not of concern to anyone. And that's why we insist that Ukrainian gas be given to people to cancel the illegal increase in gas prices, so that the parliament investigates the corruption of NAC Naftogazu, the President and his entire environment regarding the illegal setting of gas prices. We don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u12	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u13	30 seconds. I want to reiterate that our faction is going to fight to cancel this gas price hike. We will not vote in favour of any law today until this decree is voted on. And we call on all honest factions not to vote for anything until people take out this gas rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u14	And the closing statement is Oleg Berezuk, please. And let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, this increase in gas tariffs has nothing to do with the market. This increase in gas tariffs has to do with both governments failing to carry out their domestic market creation task in Ukraine. They have no right to raise tariffs because they do not know the market prices today in Ukraine, because they: (a) did not take into account the production of their own gas, they did not know the volume of gas because there are no counters, and they did not work with people for energy conservation. That is why they cover their own inaction and criminal theft of people’s money by raising tariffs on gas. At the expense of the people, they settle their commercial issues. So this decision has to be voted on just to force the government to do people's homework -- to create a market in Ukraine that lowers prices worldwide, not raises prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u16	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u17	It's an oligarchic market that serves 6 people in the country, but it doesn't even serve people who work in this country and create value added. That is why this decree is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u18	Pisarenko, please, Valerius. Turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u19	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, you know, we've got quite a day's work today. We're going to have bills that apply to homeless animals, we have many other bills, but there's one problem. We're talking about what we need to pay attention to people in the first place, because tariff issues today are painful for all 100 percent of Ukrainians. Everyone wants to know how the tariffs will continue when this is over. And we have an idea to move on. Let's devote the whole plenary week to all the bills, all the regulations that deal with tariffs, electricity, the question of price increases for gas, in order to listen to the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the representatives of the Attorney General's Office, Naftogazu, the representatives of all the monitoring committees, in order to come up with a single joint decision, how parliament can come back to the people and do something about raising tariffs and overcoming poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u20	One minute from Peter Dustock's Block. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please. BPP, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Now we've heard some kind of talk about a problem that exists in gas. Is there a problem? Yes, there is. But I want to remind you again in this Parliamentary Hall, maybe someone forgot that the previous governments (and I'm not going to call the Prime Minister) have raised more than 70 billion and passed it on to pay off debts, not in bracelets, but in United States dollars. Could it be forgotten who signed a memorandum with the IMF in 2008, as Prime Minister, is now present in this room, relatively sorry, the price leveling of Ukrainian gas production and the price of imported gas, which means higher gas prices. So let's call our things names and be honest in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u22	It wasn't called or called a faction. It's a straight norm. But to remove the tension in the room, 30 seconds, please. Replica 30 seconds. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. And we're moving on to the next question. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u23	Dear friends, I would like to draw attention to what Mr. Gerasimov has just said, which I am in charge of here, stealing from Parliament. This is the person who today covers all of President Dustenk's corruption, covering all of the corruption tariffs that are set for natural gas. And I can tell you firmly that as long as this mob is headed by the President and Mr. Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u24	Thank you. Gerasimov, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u25	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, after my performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u26	Attention! Arthur, Arthur, one second. Okay. One second! I had no right to give a line, but I gave it to her. Yeah, it was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u27	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u28	According to the Rules, when a deputy or a faction is mentioned, a replica is given. I gave it to relieve the tension. Sadly, you mentioned your last name during the talk. So I'm going to give Arthur Gerasimov a replica right now, and we're going to finish the discussion. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u29	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! During my previous speech, I didn't call any names, but now I want to say that it was Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko who picked up and handed over $24 billion to the next generation. It was Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko who signed her memorandum with the IMF just 10 years ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u30	My colleagues, my friends, you can advise me on how to act. I'll give it to you. I've got a tough situation, I've got a burnout in the hall, we need to move on to the day-to-day issues. It's me, colleagues. But this has to stop somehow. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just put a replica on the line before that. Jaroslav, let's finish. It's Moscalenko, one minute. And I'll consult. Moscalenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I have a constructive offer for you. Let's stop being like kids in a manger, throwing pillows, who's more, who's less, who's hung loans in that country. Because it is quite obvious today that all these debts are owed by the Ukrainian people. And I'm asking you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, let's do it. Give an appropriate commission, let the committee gather, let it consider this decree, put it into the hall, and vote. And when that decision is in the hall, we will see who cares for people today and who doesn't. And I suggest we finish this discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u32	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm making a point so that we can exchange thoughts in the room, but not get into conflicts. I'm putting a strain on this so that we can ensure that Parliament's work is orderly. Fellows, I'm asking you very much, let's stop the indignation and move on to the odd questions that we have. That's also the question about our movers, and that's the question about people standing on the street with pints, that's the question about protecting animals. That's why I have a huge request for you, and I'm asking for understanding in this room right now. Now I'm going to give another performance with the hope that there won't be any images, no partitions, name names, and we're going right over. I ask you to accept this position, I hope it will be non-conflict. Timishenko, one minute. And let's move on to the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u33	I want to address all the deputies and the Head of the Supreme Council right now. I want to make a request, and, more faithfully, even a request. Under the Rules, it is now up to the PSC to review this draft Decree on the Cancellation of Gas Price by 23.5 per cent and to immediately submit to the Hall a draft decree signed by the six factions to give Ukrainian gas to Ukrainians, to cancel the increase in gas price by 23.5 per cent, and to introduce a moratorium on higher housing services, to increase the cost of residential services. Because the current president, now raising the price of gas, really in the last six months of his reign, wants to raise billions of dollars from the country for his offshore accounts. We demand to act immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u34	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to the agenda. And, colleagues, I'm asking for all of you to do your best right now. We started working for an hour, an hour and a half later. I'm asking for the benefit of those who are waiting and on the streets of our decision, I'm asking for maximum unanimity right now. So we're moving on to the drafts of the Order on State-level marking of the 75th anniversary of the beginning of the deportation of indigenous Ukrainians from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, Podlesh, Lubawščina, Western Boykovščina (numbers 8603 and 9071). Two reports, then a committee, and then a joint discussion. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, because otherwise we won't be able to make it. I ask everyone to vote with clarity in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:18:02]] For-164 Decision taken. I invite the first to the report by Antonisztak Andrija Fedorovich, author of the first decision. And then there's going to be Irina Igorovna, author of the second decree. Andrew Antonishtak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u35	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, distinguished people of Ukraine! I propose a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking at the national level the 75th anniversary of the beginning of the deportation of Ukrainians from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, South Podlesh, Lubavščina, Western Boykovščina in 1944-1951. In 2019, 75 years of deportation of Ukrainians from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, South Podlishya, Lubavščina, Western Boykovščina in 1944-1951, the indigenous inhabitants of these regions were completed. For centuries, Ukrainians in these territories have suffered oppression and persecution from colonizers for their faith, language, land, many human sacrifices, spiritual and material losses. The process of deportation in 1944-1951 took the form of military operations against the civilian population, accompanied by gross violations of human rights and freedoms and of a citizen: no return to the country's homeland, no property. The goal of deportation was to put a stop to the millennium existence of the westernmost branch of Ukraine. The official deportation of the Ukrainian population began on September 9, 1944. As a result of the agreement between the Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Polish National Liberation Committee and the Treaty between the USSR and the People’s Republic of Poland on the Exchange of State Areas of February 15, 1951, more than 700,000 indigenous Ukrainians were forcibly relocated! However, as evidenced by numerous archival documents and eyewitness memories, the destruction of the Ukrainian population began before the signing of the September 9, 1944, agreement. Paramilitar attacks on a particularly large scale have taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u36	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u37	Yes, on March 13-14, these formations burned 14 Ukrainian villages, shot or killed 1,500 Ukrainians, 70 of whom were women and children. In view of the above, honourable national MPs, I ask you, regardless of the political preferences, to support the requests and appeals made by more than a million Ukrainians who have been.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u38	Thank you. I've given you 30 seconds. The co - report is invited by Irina Igorovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I was forced to register another decree in view of the fact that the previous decree of the distinguished Mr. Antonishtak was registered at the end of this summer. And I would suggest that you support this decision, which concerns exactly the same subject, only the emphasis placed in this regulation is slightly different. What is the fundamental difference between one decision and another? To my profound conviction, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not interfere to any extent with the activities of the Ministry of Education, review or indicate what educational plans should be. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should bear in mind that the media are dispossessed, independent, and without the right to indicate to the media what programs they should broadcast. This is absolutely unacceptable because we will soon come to what we will be writing in the Supreme Council in the history books. So I ask you to support the ruling on this very point. The main focus of this decision is that it is important to bear in mind the real perpetrators of the tragedy of displaced persons and deported persons, namely, the Communist regimes of the Soviet Union and then Poland, without burdening the collective responsibility of modern - day nations and nations. Please support Decree 9071. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u40	Thank you. A very wise decision was made by the Committee on Culture to support both of us in general. Please invite me to the report by Princely Mikola Leonidovich, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Put on the ratings, and then choose which of those decisions, how do we act, advise? Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u41	Thank you. First of all, I'm ashamed that we're discussing such an important issue from a place like this, because it was a real and real genocide of Ukrainians. And from the rostrum, Antonisztak and Downstairs can't speak? It's embarrassing for us. We honor Crimean Tatars -- we do the right thing, we honor other people -- we do the right thing. When we talk about the destruction of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and their displacement, we don't even hear each other here. Colleagues, this is a very important question. Indeed, the committee supported two decrees. First, I will read our comments to the first decision, which we recommend to take as a basis and as a whole. The Committee requests that some editorial changes be made to the text. In the name and in all the text of the decrees, delete the word "auto" in all the differences, in the name and in all the text of the decree before the word "Southern" add the word "Southern" in all the differences, the "r." in the entire text of the project, change it to "years." At the end of the first paragraph, the preamble added the term "autochthonous residents of these regions." The second paragraph of the preamble reads: "For centuries, Ukrainians in these territories have suffered oppression and persecution from colonizers for their faith, their language, their land, their many spiritual and material losses. In the 20th century, they became victims of forced evictions." The third preambular paragraph reads: "The deportation process in 1944-1951 took the form of military operations against the civilian population, was accompanied by gross violations of human and civil rights and freedoms (please add time because it is important), the ban on return to the country's homeland, the removal of property, the non-alternative consolidation of the settlement in the new place, the abandonment of which has been prohibited, the restriction of political, social, economic, cultural rights, which has led to the destruction of the Ukrainian cultural and historical heritage, threatened the destruction of a number of ethnic groups of the Ukrainian people. The purpose of the deportation was to virtually suspend the millennial existence of the westernmost branch of Ukraine." In the fourth paragraph of the preamble, the word "made" is replaced by "made" by "made," and the term "directed" is replaced by "replaced."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u42	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u43	The word "which was part of the common Ukrainian" is deleted. In paragraph 2.3, after the words “the Ukrainians” add the words “from Lemkovščina, Nadsenje, Holmščina, South Podlišča, Lubovaščina, Western Warfare in 1944-1951.” In paragraph 3, the word “Poland” is deleted. In paragraph 4, 5, 6, 7 at the beginning, add the word "recommend." In paragraph 7, the term "organize a show of thematic radio programmes" should be replaced by "organize thematic television broadcasts." The word "ensure media coverage" is replaced by "promoting public awareness." The committee decided to support the decision on the basis of the decision as a whole. Similarly, we recommended a second decision to take as a basis and generally, since they are not alternatives, both apply to important issues. We have different things. And the co-author of this decision is, for example, I'm a member of the committee, a co-author of another, a colleague of Podowak. You can put it on a rating or a turn, they don't conflict with each other. But this is a very important question. I ask everyone to vote unanimously, we condemn the Communist regime and not the present Poland, but the Communist Poland that they suffered.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u44	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Peter Dustenk's Block. So as long as the Peter Dust Block is determined by the People's Front. Barna, right? From Barna's Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u45	Praise Jesus Christ! The relocation of the western ethnic group of Ukrainians, my people of the funnels, took place on the basis of the previous criminal conspiracy of Ribbentrop Molotov and the cooperation of the Soviet regime, the criminal regime, Poland and the Soviet-Stalin regime. Clearly, then, the Ukrainian people, namely, the funnels, which are ethnic groups, need to know their history. Because who doesn't know their story is forced to teach a stranger. If you do not know your past, you will be deprived of your future. And the law of our nation must protect the interests of our people, raise true citizens and patriots, not cosmopolitans who do not know their history, and not be liberal to the crimes of the past communist regimes of Poland and the Soviet Union. So I ask and urge my colleagues to support the bill, first of all Andrew Antonishtak and our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Please welcome the representative of the People's Front, Michael Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. Please pass it on to Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u48	Please. Please turn on Mr. Savi's microphone. Please. I'm sorry, Big Guy. I'm sorry, it's a gool. Colleagues, so violent in the hall, there's nothing to hear in the lobby. I apologize a thousand times, and Mr. Bigwig's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the People's Front supports this decision. And we support the position of our colleague Nikola Knieżicky and the position of the Committee on Culture. Please support the proposals made by Santa Claus and vote. This is a very important question, and we should not forget our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. And please welcome Yuri Chizmar to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Clearly, the history of Ukrainian-Polish relations has experienced serious tragedies in the past century. And we need to know our history, we need to know who did it. But I would always say that we should acknowledge that both the Polish and Ukrainian people became hostages to the political actions of the regimes of that time, and suffered both the Polish and Ukrainian people from many of the crimes of that period. So I would like us to pay attention by recognizing this determination and, of course, supporting it, we would like to pay attention because it is the two nations who have become hostages to the imperial politics of the Soviet Union, and not to mention the things that separate us, because, unfortunately, it is only today’s Russia. We remember that even in 1944-1945, even in our own contradictions, the Soviet Union, which imposed Poland the so-called "dependent" Communist regime, and Ukraine lost and did not gain independence. It is therefore vital that we seek understanding among our peoples so that the crisis based on history does not make our relationship worse. Therefore, we clearly support this decision in that we condemn the Communist regimes that contributed to the destruction of the Ukrainians there. On Zacherson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u52	Thank you. From Rebirth, Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, a very interesting question, of course. But what we're looking at today is one of the first questions that people who are watching and listening to what is happening in Parliament are probably asking if we're putting our priorities right. We've already talked about the fact that there are enough documented documents and regulations that would allow us to make a completely different emphasis today. I haven't seen anything in recent sociological research to make this question one of the most painful. And what I want to tell you is that I haven't seen any sociological research at all, so that people can expect the Supreme Council to embrace history first. It seems to me that maybe we should register a decree that would look at the deportation of Ukrainians from Ukraine who are going to make a living anywhere in the world just to feed their families. And instead of defining the actual order of the day that would allow us to look for questions and answers, we're dealing with history, we're dealing with questions that aren't interesting to people at all. And then we see that the Supreme Council ratings are close to zero. So I think it would be better if I supported the initiative that sounded in the hall today. We had to move on to tariffs, and there were plenty of initiatives from all factions registered. We don't even. I think we could go ad hoc and look at them without committees. We could call here the Cabinet of Ministers in full stock, the Attorney General, the head of Naftogazu, the Skrtransgazu, the heads of the commission, and to listen to what the real situation is, and to understand what we should do next. I think the representatives of the National Bank could tell us how tragic it is for us to be working with the IMF today. So let us make our priorities right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u54	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, please. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! I will call on my colleagues to support this resolve and support the simple fights that have become hostages of a terrible war. But I want to say something else. I believe that, in 10 years from now, another parliament will make another decision on the already voluntary emigration of fighting, because in our city of Turkey, the capital of Boykovščina, the peninsula has already left for Poland, they have already voluntarily emigrated there as a result of today's absolutely failed economic policy of the government and of today's government. And the common people, the simple men, the other peoples of Carpathians, we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u56	So, colleagues, the closing statement from Fatherland. [[B in m in s a l in]] But you had a word. Shahov was passing the word to Lithuania from "the will of the people." Please, Ivan Krulko, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u57	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The adoption of this decree is a restoration of historical justice, because Ukrainians from their indigenous lands were forcibly expelled from their homeland, deported from their homeland without their will. Therefore, if we do not honor our history and honor the Ukrainians, no one will. But let us, along with how we will honor the memory of those who have suffered from Communist or Nazi regimes in various years, honor those who are alive and who live in Ukraine now. That's why we demand, as Fatherland, by voting on this decree, to vote on an urgent decision by the Supreme Council on a moratorium on the price of gas. Because there is now forced deportation of Ukrainians from their lands because they have nothing to pay for, so they go abroad and leave home and their families. So let us honor our history, honor those who now live, for without honoring those who are now, we will have no history in the future. This is the position of Fatherland. And we demand that Parliament show its state position and still look at that destructive policy that is happening today by President Dustenk, when in fact the Ukrainians have been paid last for their housing and utility tariffs and are now forced to take credit to send their children to school. This is the policy of genocide and forced deportation. That's why "Paternity" requires this decision to be voted on, but, at the same time, we have to respect our history -- the history of the Ukrainian State, which has had very tragic pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, "The will of the people," who will speak from you? Litwin, right? Is that what you agreed? I can't see. Please sit down, colleagues. Litwin, right? Colleagues, in two minutes we're going to make a decision, one more minute from the non-factional. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. After that, I'm going to ask the question of getting into the agenda of the session, so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and be in the hall in two or three minutes. Please, Mr. Vladimir, turn on the microphone. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I am saddened to discuss this matter with you. Thus, this problem is of exceptional importance, for in due course there were deportations of about one and a half nations within the Soviet Union of the day, including in Ukraine. And we would like to think about the consequences of making that decision when we make the right decision. And it would be worth a decision by the Supreme Council, which would have a complex character that would speak of Poles who had been deported and oppressed, Germans, Crimean Tatars and other peoples who lived in the territory of Ukraine. I'm going to show you a paper published by German and Ukrainian historians on solving the German issue in Ukraine in the 1930s. And in addition to everything else, to come up with a solution that would allow for a deeper study of the problem, not just to make a mark that we have solved. Keep going. We need to take a firm approach to this painful problem. We need to make objective assessments to calm society in Ukraine, and we have not caused any conflict in our relations with our countries, the countries of Europe, especially our neighbors. And the last. We will soon celebrate all our defeats. Please remove the word "dedication" from the decree, speak of the 75th anniversary. What are we celebrating? Or write down the word "honor" of these people, the memories that came out of life, and the words of the assessment of the state that still lives today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, one minute from the non-fractional. Illenko. And I'd like everyone to take their jobs, come into the hall. Please, Illenka. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u61	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, I think that this decision should definitely be made even after some of the speeches in this room by people who don't seem to know what they're talking about, the first time they hear about this situation, this terrible crime that's happened against the Ukrainians. The Ukrainian Parliament had long had to do this. And those Ukrainians, more than a million who have been subjected to this crime, who have been forcibly displaced from their homes, have the right to honor. And we need to give instructions to the Ministry of Education to deal with this issue. You have to give instructions for it to be in the curriculum, it's in the schools, it's in the higher education institutions. Because if we do not do so, our future generations will not know their history, not remember the past, but cannot build a future without it. That's why we have to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u62	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. We consulted the committee. The committee believes that both decisions can be taken, which are complementary. I'm going to put them one by one: the first is that the author, Andrew Antonishtak, the second is that the author, Irina Podoljak. You got it, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, if Antonishtak's ruling is taken into account, the committee's proposals will be taken into account. Colleagues, there's no closing statement. All right, 30 seconds, Antonistak. Please. Please prepare for the vote. 30 seconds. Short. Most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u63	Your Honor, I'm still asking to vote on Decree 9071, not Mrs. Podowak. Why? I'd like to emphasize that. Our decision, which takes into account the amendments made to the committee, is only about immigrants from Poland to Ukraine. We're not interested in other citizens of other states, because we're citizens. The Senate of Poland unanimously supported its citizens. We are the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u64	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. So I'm going to be the first. Okay, second co-author. 30 seconds is the same. 30 seconds, Irina Over.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u65	I propose to support Mr. Antonishtak's proposal and to vote in favour of Decree 9071. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u66	So I'm the only one who can remind you, so I'm betting. You're the only one who's mixed up with the numbers, my friends. 9071 is Irina Gorge. Yeah, you're kidding. I see. So, colleagues, I'm the first to draft the Order on State-level Marking of the 75th Anniversary of the Beginning of the Deportation of Indigenous Ukrainians (No. 8603) by Antonistak on the proposal of the Committee as a basis and in general with the rights that the Head of the Committee has announced under the transcription, with technical legal rights. Please vote. [[11:43:05]] For 234 It's been decided. And next. I'm betting on Project Rule 9071 of Irina Podowak's authorship. Please vote and please support. Vote. They're non-alternative. Please be supportive. [[11:43:39]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Thus, Decree 8603, as amended by the Commission, read by the Princely, is accepted. And, colleagues, we're moving to the inclusion box in the agenda of the day session. We have come to the point of dealing with matters later today. I would like to emphasise that without a decision on the Tax Code, without a resource bill, we will not be able to consider the budget, we will not be able to consider today the issues that concern people who are standing on the street and caring. And so my request to include in the agenda of the day's session the questions that are proposed. I want everyone's attention. Everyone, please be in the workplace and vote. The first one is proposed to include in the agenda of the day’s session for decision the draft Order on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (Knieżicko, 9234). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. [[11:44:56]] For 208 The decision is not taken. I'm surprised, my friends. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine on improving administration and reviewing the rates of individual taxes and congregations. Colleagues are invited to accept the first reading as a basis for Parliament to work with the Tax Code to take into account the proposals of the Ukrainian Parliament. So I ask everyone to unite, to include in the agenda of the day’s session for decision making. And I ask you to vote carefully and be in your seats, colleagues. Please mobilize. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making (9260). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's not stop the budgetary process. We're backing it up. We support you, colleagues. Carefully, we all support each other. Vote. [[11:46:15.]] For 211 I'm asking you to show the factions, colleagues. Peter Poshenko's Block – 101, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 10, Rebirth Party – 10, non-fractional – 15. Guys, I'll put it back on. I'm asking you, maybe not everyone's been oriented. I want to emphasize again. This is the interest and logic of the budget process by Parliament. Parliament adopts the Tax Code, changes it to its course and offers proposals from deputies. This is actually the way that allows Parliament and the people's deputies to have a direct impact on the country's main resource law that will allow us to adopt the budget. I'm asking everyone to take a look and support, colleagues. So I'm going to do it again. Please enter the hall and take your seats. Once again, I am proposing to include the agenda of the day session for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve administration and review individual taxes and congregations (9260). Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Each voice has a weight. Don't leave the hall! Please vote and please support. Vote! We're backing up, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:48:08]] For 233 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues. Draft Act on Amendments. By the way, the committee can already look at it, we've put it in the agenda. Draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on financial security for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Colleagues, we have assembled the Constitutional Court, we have chosen two candidates from Parliament. The Constitutional Court has asked to vote in favour of the financial composition of their institution. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Integrating the agenda for the decision-making session, please vote and please support the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Vote! Vote! [[11:49:09]] For 212 Colleagues, a few votes. I'll do it again. Only you will be in the workplace during the vote. We're putting in the agenda of the day session, it's voting for the vote, don't leave the room. I'll do it again. I'd like you all to maximize your mobility. Thus, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of the draft Financial Security Act of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Vote! Every voice, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote, support! [[11:49:53]] For 221 Five votes. I'll set up a third time, colleagues. But in my eyes, some deputies are not in their seats, but they are walking around the hall. Heads of factions, please provide discipline in the hall. During the vote, please do not go, do not consult, but take part in the vote. Let's support it, colleagues. Thus, 9241 on the financial security of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the decision-making process. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Voting and supporting. Please be supportive. [[11:50:44]] For 210 The votes were down: 210. Next. Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2018 (8414). All I'm reading, colleagues, it's been printed in the daytime, with all these laws we were able to get to know. 8414 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:51:29]] For a hundred and The following is 9171: draft Order for Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of Name Scholarships of the Supreme Council to Students of Higher Education Institutions. I very much ask you, colleagues, to support the Songakow Bill, which concerns the support of Ukrainian students. And I ask, colleagues, to vote and support everyone, to include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. We support the Education Committee. Vote. [[11:52:11]] For 253 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine (No. 9218). Just getting into the agenda of the day session, it's just getting into the agenda of the day session. So, colleagues, please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support 9218, we vote. [[11:52:55]] For-170. Colleagues, we were close to the Constitutional Court ruling. Ask the factions to put it again, put it again. Colleagues, I ask you to support everyone, this is a matter of having the judges of the Constitutional Court, including those we have instructed to carry out their duties properly, their apparatus. So once again, colleagues, to vote on the proposal, to include draft Law 9241 in the agenda for the adoption of the decision. Please vote and please support, vote, please support. [[11:53:42]] For 180. No voices. So, colleagues, we've included the Tax Code, it's an important, educational law, it's important. The next one is in the agenda, colleagues, the Public Procurement Act, and then the two bills that deal with the question of Europe. Colleagues, but before that, there was a statement from two factions, from the Rebirth faction and the Opposition Block, and they want to take a break for three minutes. I give the floor to Bondar for three minutes. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the most important question that all citizens of Ukraine are looking forward to today is that the authorities decide and cancel their shameful decision to raise tariffs. We insist that that draft decree, which we signed together with the leaders of other factions, was immediately put before Parliament. The question is to cancel this decision on raising tariffs, the question is that Ukrainian gas, its own production should be directed only to the population of Ukraine, the state institutions of Ukraine and the municipal institutions. This applies to the majority of the population of Ukraine. We have to stop this communal terror, and we have to make sure that the population is able to pay these crazy tariffs. I'm sorry, this is an indisposable question for the population today, and we see the whole country collapse. So we still need to go back to that question and put a draft decision on the table. The other one. We see how cynical the government was at all to the pensioners. We're seeing a political spectacle when the head of the state firm Krašta claims they won't deliver pensions to the population of Ukraine. I'm sorry, this show has to end. A government ultimatum, ultimatum for all the people of Ukraine, and primarily pensioners living in a remote area in Ukraine cannot be placed by the head of the state enterprise. It's ecclesiastical and it's just social cynicism. That's why we need to stop this show. We don't need to be pious about how heroic government saves pensioners, how heroic government deals with a state enterprise, and in two weeks heroically solves this issue. You don't know how to run an enterprise, you fire it and you put a person in charge of it. The government doesn't know how to make its own decisions. It doesn't know how to make decisions. It's how to resign, go with God. We won't keep you. After everything you've done in recent years, I think the whole of Ukraine will applaud you just to leave. And they didn't just walk away, and there's more than half of it to go to jail right now. And that's what people are waiting for today. So let's say orderly, let's listen to the government, every minister here in Parliament, what they've done in this country in the last two years. And let's go back to the fact that the Regulation on Cancellation of Tariffs, Auditing, and Transfer of Ukrainian Gas to Ukrainian Citizens was now put to the vote here. And let the whole country hear who's defending the interests of the citizens and who's still playing these political games. And they wanted to sneeze at the citizens of Ukraine and that these tariffs were inoperable. This is a major requirement for today’s people in Ukraine. And now we're wasting time on current issues that people don't care about at all. Therefore, the decision to consider is our main requirement, and we demand it now, immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u68	So, colleagues, please don't split up. Next draft law on the adjacent zone, a big bill. We do. I can resume the sessions so we can take him in. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It's a matter of security and defense, which we didn't get to yesterday, we just didn't make it. So I'm asking you, colleagues, all to mobilize, we're moving on to the next question of the draft law today -- this is the draft law on the adjacent zone (8361). And first of all, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[11:58:21]] For-141 We didn't make it. I'll do it again. What's the point? Why? Please support the reduced procedure 8361. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote carefully for the reduced procedure. Vote. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. [[11:58:48]] For a hundred and Colleagues, I'll put it in the third place. But what is the problem? It's a safety bill. Colleagues, please concentrate, I'm putting a third motion on the vote so that we can consider the draft law on the adjacent zone with a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[11:59:29]] For-160. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna. Mrs. Irina! Turn on the microphone. I'm asking you to do as much as I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, a bill on the adjacent zone is being tabled for your consideration. It will allow the adjacent area of Ukraine to be set at 24 miles, which actually doubles the sea area, which today is able to control our naval forces and the naval forces. This bill is aimed at substantially reducing smuggling in the Black Sea, it will prevent violations of the state border, have a positive impact on the security situation and protect the economic sovereignty of our state. The adjacent zone, according to international standards, is neither a zone of jurisdiction nor a zone of sovereignty. But this area is the area of marine space where any coastal state can exercise limited control over the warning or detention of certain rules, such as fiscal, sanitary, customs and immigration. So I emphasize that this bill will allow the de facto to double the area of control in the Black Sea. The bill also prohibits the disengagement of an automatic and identification system on ships that will allow better quality control of the Azov Sea. I ask all my colleagues to be careful about voting for this bill because it gives our border guards and our naval forces the opportunity to improve the quality and effective control of our waterfront. The bill was drafted and agreed upon by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Foreign Service, the Ministry of Defence. I also ask you to note that the Russian Federation had already implemented the concept of "neighbourly zone" in its legislation in 1998, as opposed to us. At least.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u70	Thank you very much. And I want to emphasize. 30 seconds, please. The longer we take the floor, the less chance the MPs will be left in the hall. Please, 30 seconds, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u71	I ask you, colleagues, to note that there have been repeated attempts in the Ukrainian Parliament to implement the notion of the "neighbourly zone," but they have now been blocked by the pro-Russian forces. In his day, even Julia Timoshenko passed an appropriate bill, but he was not approved. Please accept it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u72	Thank you. From the committee Vinnik Ivan Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u73	I'll take the advice on short speeches. Indeed, Ukraine must enforce in legislation certain important provisions of international law of the sea, conventions that we ratified back in 1998, but did not adopt implementing laws. This is an implementing law that will allow the area of control of our territorial waters to be extended to 24 miles, and the ships present there will be obliged to include an automatic identification system and allow for the right. will give our border guards and other subjects the right to do so from the state border. to carry out appropriate controls to counter preventive smuggling and border violations of illegal migration, etc. Please vote in the first reading and send the committee to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. I went on for 15 minutes. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important and from the point of view of national security. Especially during the period of Russian aggression against Ukraine, when the occupied Crimea, when the occupied part of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, when the Russian Federation engaged in new aggressions on the Azova Sea, blocking ships of civilians, fishing ships, ships carrying cargo to Ukrainian ports, Ukrainian ships, and third countries. All of this is, of course, directed. And this bill will be supported by our "Fatherland" faction. But if you don't vote on the draft termination order. raising tariffs on gas and utilities, unfortunately we can't support this bill. At the same time, I want to say that the bill is in Ukraine's national interest and needs to be adopted. I would like to remind you that in 2009, the government of Julia Timoshenko passed this bill. It is not clear why governments have not passed such a bill since 2014 — Jacinyuk and Groysman — but instead are introducing it to the MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u76	Thank you. Roman Semenha, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u77	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, this is actually a bill -- the first attempt at legislative response to the situation that has arisen today with the control of Ukraine's own territorial waters. And of course, we need to support the expansion of the control zone to 24 miles today, because today the Ukrainian Navy and the Coast Guard can actually stop and check the ships up to 12 miles from the shore. So increasing that area is the right thing to do. But at the same time, creating an adjacent zone, and this is the right initiative from the point of view of the reaction and the resolution of the conflict that today is in the Azov Sea, which we have talked about with you about, because in fact, in this modern Ukrainian-Russian war, we have a new actual front since April of this year, when Russia is fully organizing the blockade of the Azov Sea. During this period, Russian border guards have stopped about 150 Ukrainian vessels for completely intended reasons, and one day Ukrainian businesses are easy to afford, more than $15,000 to shipowners. Since October of this year, the port of Mariupola has, among other things, moved to a four - day working week. It is evident that a purposeful, massive blockade of the entire Azov Sea is being carried out. Therefore, the Ukrainian side must act in a number of directions. To modernize the naval forces, whether today the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be the appropriate technology to ensure the control of the adjacent zone, that is, the reinforcement of the military-maritime forces as a whole. That's why the Self-Help faction supports, and I ask you to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, a very responsible bill, may I have your attention now? We have two options: either finish and vote now, or continue after 12:30 and vote after recess. Don't shout when the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine speaks. I'm going to run a rating vote. If it shows potential, I hope Front and Peter Dusty Block will make a very brief statement, and we will immediately vote. Now we have a rating vote so we can see what our potential is. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. If the result is bad, I'm going to suggest that after a break we continue the discussion. So, everyone please come into the hall, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. Invite the MPs who are not here. And now I'm putting up a rating vote. Rating vote on the draft Act on the adjacent zone (No. 8361). Please vote and support everyone. It's a rating vote. Please vote for everyone, please support everyone. Voting, voting. Please be supportive. [[12:08:11]] For 219 Normal: 219. So, now, colleagues. Colleagues, it was a rating. Now we have two shows left: Front and BP. I ask that these speeches be for 30 seconds, so that we can proceed immediately to the vote. Who's from Front? Magnificent, very short. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u79	People's Front will vote in favour. We call on everyone else to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u80	Thank you. And the closing statement from Peter Dustenka's Block is Arthur Gerasimov. And let's go to the vote. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u81	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, this law of utmost importance for our national security and defence, especially during the Kremlin aggression. Please unify the hall unanimously and support this impeccable bill for our safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u82	Members, I ask you to return to the hall of employment. So I'm betting. We have concluded the discussion and I am voting on the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine (No.8361) on the basis recommended by the committee. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice, please stand by. Vote. [[12:09:47]] For 238. Decision taken. So, colleagues, I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the author of the ruling, Mr. People's Deputy Antonishtak, appealed to the Presidium that his card did not work during the vote in favour of its draft Decree No. 8603. And he's asking me to count his voice in favor. That's what happens. That's what happens, my friends, in our room. And he also appealed to the Presidium, which we have chosen, the head of the TSC on the subject of resonance attacks on activists Borislav Bereza, asking to inform all TSK members that today will be the first meeting at 14:20 in the Anti-Corruption Committee (this is Sadova, 3a, 3rd floor). Please, colleagues, please take a very responsible approach to the first and all subsequent meetings and meet at these meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u84	Thank you. I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:40 everyone go back to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall so that we can start our responsible work fully. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking for your attention right now, and I'd like to tell you the next thing. We've been holding our morning session for almost an hour because of political debate. That's how our entire work plan shifts. I'm on. We're supposed to have the Public Procurement Act next. I had a conversation on a break with the head of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk, a reformer known, and he said that, given that people are waiting on the street for bills that relate to excise taxes on light means of transport, as we call it, "euroblies," he actually asked to move public purchases to after lunch so that we could now go to the issues that people are waiting for. So, colleagues, I want to thank the committee's head for understanding. I want to thank the committee's head for understanding. And I would like to announce now the passage to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles (8487). After this law, if there is a decision by the Tax Code Committee, we can go to the Tax Code. I know, but the papers are formed to be distributed in the hall. It's important for us to have all the deputies in the room. Before I call to the rostrum of Eugene Nina Petrovna, I give the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Irina Heratchenko a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u86	Thank you. I want to take the floor for holding today's session. On behalf of the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius and I would like to express our sincere thanks to our colleagues that, despite the emotions of this week, we are able to avoid quarrels, fights, plaques, and other tribunes. And in this context, by thanking all the other colleagues, to ask one of the colleagues, the gentleman, in this case standing on the stand, yes, to return to the workplace. Because this is a violation of the Supreme Council today. I think so. The rules of the Supreme Council. I think all the voters have already pointed out that the principle of your life was eaten by a sandwich in the morning, and the idea is, "What about the people?".. Everyone's seen it. Please come back and take care of the people from your workplace, and please give Mrs. Southanini the opportunity to take her place now with large very large packages prepared by the entire committee for the second reading of the documents. Honor your colleagues and give them the opportunity to work. I hope that the entire session room will now support the presidency of this requirement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u87	Thank you. I ask you now, Mr. Sergei, to give Nina Petrovna the opportunity to report on the law that people are waiting for today, who are on the street and who have come to the Supreme Council. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Nina Petrovna, to speak on draft Law 8487. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there won't be a woman, Nina Petrovna, who's about to go into any kind of misunderstanding. Why are you doing this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] We've moved on. So I invite you to talk to Nina Petrovna. Please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u88	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, on November 6, 2018, at its meeting, discussed in a second reading a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles (registration No. 8487). I'll remind everyone that this bill is the result of a compromise that we've reached with all the interested parties on a new model of excise taxation on light means of transport, including those previously imported on euronomers. The second reading of the project included 94 proposals from legal entities. The final consideration of the committee includes a total of 8 and 6 proposals taken into account in part and essentially. Other suggestions are rejected because they are designed to change the concept of the model adopted in the first reading and, in fact, repeat each other. By the way, you know that the committee's proposals were based on the very conclusions of Minfin, Mert, Minecology, Mini-Infrastructure, DFS, the State Department of Foreign Service, the National Police. These are all the structures that will be involved in implementing legislation if we adopt it. With these conclusions, you can get to know the comparative table that we've opened up and posted on the committee's website before the committee meets. As a result of the second reading, the committee generally left the tax model adopted on the first reading and supported the following suggestions. Differentiating the base rate for petrol vehicles with cylinders of up to 3,000 cubic centimetres and over 3,000 cubic centimetres, while for diesel vehicles with cylinders of up to 3,500 cylinders and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Let's go to the right. And, colleagues, I'll read it. Please, colleagues, I'm in the middle of something. Demands right, one of the rights, a speech by Sergey Melnichenko. I give him my word. Melniczuk. I'm sorry, Melniczuk. I'll give you my word, one minute to go straight, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u90	I want to tell you why I'm here. I am in favour of that regulation on the elimination of criminal tariffs on gas. And I will stand here until this decision is made. I support all the factions and all the deputies who are ready to join. I'm taking my place now for those people who are gathered under the Supreme Council. After a report by the committee head, I will continue to block the rostrum again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u91	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Sergei. Nina Petrovna, please. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u92	No, no, if I may, I will literally finish for two seconds so that everyone understands the contents of the bill, which is presented to the second reading. So for big and expensive cars, we raised the rate from 50 euros to 100, for petrol engines, for diesels, from 75 euros to 150 euros. Next. We set the age limit, depending on the number of full years of cars. So if the car is even 16, 18, 20 years old, the limit is 15. Next. In order to stimulate the very entry into the blurry procedure, the proposal is as follows. To this new calculation, the excise tax rate should apply the lowering factor: within the first 30 days, 0.5 and at least 30 days from the date of approval and the publication of the special order for blurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u93	I'm adding two minutes to Nina Petrovna's performance. I don't think anyone would mind, because her initial speech was a little tight. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I've heard from you today that if we adopt the law today and it goes into effect, we might go to New Year's. I think we're ready to replace the word "calendar" with "working days" so that the number of days that goes on in January and late December doesn't prevent people from doing all the procedures. In addition, you know that the regime in which machines, temporary importation or transit are currently placed cannot be closed and switched to another regime without payment of fines, an administrative fine. Since most machines are made up of non-residents, it's obvious that it's not possible to bring these camels back to Ukraine, so we have proposed a compromise decision on discharge from liability for violations of the tax rules and customs rules for the maintenance of the time and conditions of temporary importation or transit of persons. for persons who are subject to a temporary procedure for the processing of passenger cars, paying a third person a fine of 8,500 dollars in the state budget in order to close this temporary or transit regime and to convert the car into an import mode. And finally. It is proposed that the Government be instructed to make a proposal in 2018 and 2019 for all customs payments received in the form of means of transport imported into the customs territory of Ukraine and placed in the customs transit or temporary importation regimes between 1 January 2015 and the date of entry into force of this law for pension insurance. I want all young people to know that these funds will go exclusively to the Pension Fund. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine, taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u95	So we're going to look at the rights. I'm going to read those who are biased, who are going to insist, who are stressed out, I'm going to look in the hall. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th, 11th. He insists. Please, Sergey Mishchenko, 11 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I doubt, frankly, that this bill has been agreed upon by all interested forces. Because those representatives who are under the walls of the Supreme Council and my representatives from Boryzpion are definitely against the form of the committee. Because if you take this formula even if it's a transition period of 0.5 rates and 0.75, if you look at how much these cars cost, and they're basically driven here to Ukraine for more than 10 years, it's going to be the same double price that they paid for it abroad. So my amendment proposes, and it is consistent with these representatives, a pattern of how to correct this injustice and justly apply prices depending on volume.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, this is 11 revisions. I want to make a point, I missed one. And then there's going to be 1 revision, and then there's 14th to let you know the sequence. Nina Petrovna will now answer your request. Then Batenko, then Rybchin. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, some of your amendments were about changing the rate of excise duty on all cars -- both on the truck and on buses. What, then, is the essence of the bill? We're talking about changes in excise duty rates and clearance procedures just for cars of their own use. So, please, starting with the change of law and your amendment, they apply to all cars. That's not the point, that changes the whole point of the bill. Your amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm asking you to make an appointment for the 11th amendment. [[12:57:16]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Please, let's go back to the 1st. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u100	Honorary colleagues of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our amendment number one, which the committee rejected. The amendment means that excise duties are cancelled for all means of transport, as opposed to the bill’s proposed reduction of excise duty only for light vehicles. We offered to make a difference in excise duties for all cars, not just cars, and Mrs. Southanina’s project deals with exclusively light cars. The rest remains as it was. That's why trucks and buses are one of the most important authors of the economy. Why do authors think only of private vehicles, ignoring other overweight types? Thank you. I demand that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u101	Your Honor, I'd like you to decide on the 1st amendment. [[12:58:22]] For-84 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, if I don't name someone, I'm going back to 11, and I'm moving from 11, let me know. Okay? Thank you very much. 11 o'clock, we're staying. I haven't gotten to her yet. Amendment 14, Rybchin. It was partially accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u102	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has to decide the issues from which the government has self-sustained, because what pressure has gone on the committees and on every MP, it's because the government in the embryo has not solved the problems of the incomprehensible. Unmistakable cars. And this is because in 2014 and 2015, nominal GDP in currency fell by about a third both there and there, and in 2016 it fell by about a third. The increase was only 3 percent of nominal GDP. That's why people have to think about cars on Euronomers. And unfortunately, that's where the Ukrainians are placed. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support a bill that can take into account people's interests regarding the available clearing of an already driven car, cost cars for those who wish to become auto-owners, signal that in the priority of power, it will encourage Ukrainians to buy more economic cars and take care of those who simply want to breathe clean air in their cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u103	Please comment, Mrs. Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u104	Dear colleague, your amendments are very much and they are very useful in enabling environmentally friendly cars to give preference and what can be done to encourage more use of such cars. But there are a lot of them, and we need to look at them together with System Laws 8159 and 8160. If you don't like anything there, all of the amendments you have in this bill should be taken into those bills and adopted a comprehensive bill on electric cars. Our support should be not only in exemption from VAT but also in a more systematic way in support of environmentally sound manufacturing and the use of such cars. Thank you. That's why. But we're partially counting where you technically noticed that you need to pay attention not to kilowatts, but to kilowatt-hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u105	Thank you. After clarification, the committee heads do not insist on voting. 16 revisions. Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I propose for the participants in the fighting, for the disabled as a result of the war, to set 50 percent of the rates that are proposed to be applied, because this transition period, which is proposed to us in six months, will end. And then for this category, it's going to be 100 percent car blurry. So I suggest we set up 50 percent of these benefits for our fighters, for those who protected our country. 50 percent of these bets. Because, frankly, it's being rejected on the basis that it's going to lead to a budget loss. Well, you know, it sounds cynical that when people get advanced disability, they protect our country because of their health and life -- not loss, but budget loss -- that's the main thing. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u107	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, including your amendment, we discussed your proposal for quite a long time in the committee. If you set up any kind of premium, you have to have control over its use, and that means that you have to set up a car like this to be imported for personal use, and now we have permission to do so, and it's very easy to transfer such a car to another person's control, without a right, for example, to alienate such a car. And no one can control the alienation. It is for those who use small - engined social vehicles that the excise tax rate will now be reduced by tens of times. So it doesn't make sense just because it gives birth to a new hole through which they're going to be. Which not only will be used by people, but by others who want to take them in, mold them, and take them out. So please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u109	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a statement. This is the 16th amendment, the committee is asking for no support. [[13:03:20]] For-49 Correction rejected. That was 16th. Next up, 38th, Ostrikova, correction. Please, she was. Ostrich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we are considering an important bill today. There are two things in our legislation that make it difficult for our citizens to unscramble the means of transport in import mode. That is: it is a legislative ban on clearing and importing cars into Ukraine, a higher Euro-5 standard, and extremely high excise duty rates. We're cleaning these two things up with this bill today. Amendment 38 proposed. She's part of the committee. I thank the committee for taking into account our requirement for large-scale cars, however, to introduce a certain higher coefficient, because they consume more fuel, they're supplied by more secure citizens. As for the other part of this amendment, we wanted to make the excise tax rates even smaller in order to still solve the problem of foreign registration cars. And so that factor of 0.5, which was finally proposed as a compromise solution, we think we need to set it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u111	Thank you for your clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify our 38th amendment. No, that's all. It was just a word. Guys, I'm sorry. Are there still those who want to insist on their amendments by 38? And I just didn't count them. Please 18th, Drozdik. 18th, Drozdick, we're moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the correctness is suggested from the excise calculation formula to replace the year coefficient with the discard coefficient. So this coefficient is going to be compared to the European standard, the so-called euro. And it's going to be counted from 1 to 7.5 for old cars. For most cars that are driven, it's actually going to be 2.5, which is going to be an adequate excise assembly for citizens, and it's going to be a compromise solution. So I'm going to ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u113	I'd like to make 18 adjustments, colleagues. Please make up your mind. The committee turned it down. [[13:06:05]] For-84 The correction is being rejected. Next is 21st, this is the Jujana amendment. Tree tree requires an amendment to 21 for confirmation. This is an amendment to Mrs. Jujanina, which the committee took into account. Please, it's a wooden microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, 21 amendments apply to the ratio of the number of calendar years of cars. It's actually that coefficient that doesn't quite fit all the people that are there, because those people who are now under the Supreme Council who came here, they don't buy new cars, their average cars are 5-6, maybe 7 years, and that means that the excise rate is 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 years and so on. So when we're talking about this bill as a whole, and we're hearing here that it's kind of a bill that solves the problem of most Ukrainians who today have to buy it economically for two or three thousand dollars or the euro of cars, this bill doesn't solve this problem. So I suggest that this coefficient always be for any car a unit, a unit. Not 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 15, as predicted over the years, but is equal to one, and this is the only compromise that people are willing to make before the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u115	Please comment with the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u116	Dear colleague, this is just a limiting coefficient of age that reduces the formula that is suggested in the first reading. We're not canceling the age ratio, and that's the main thing that was voted for the second reading. The ratio of age remains. If you're putting on confirmation right now, you're saying that you keep counting the increasing factor 20, 30, don't limit it, please, 15th. And that's not the correction. So you put it in vain because it's different. Oh, you don't put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u117	All of it. Thank you. We don't vote. The next is 22 amendments to Mrs. Sold. Thank you for your clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill reduces excise duty entirely for all cars. It's not just the ones that are already imported, it's the old ones, it's about all the cars that are going to come in in the future, it's going to import in Ukraine, it's going to have a lower excise rate, it's going to be worth in Ukraine than it is today. This is the first part, which is very important. Part two. I think it's important that people who have cars in Ukraine today have documents on them for 3-4 months (because you can't say the exact time because in working days) form these cars at a much cheaper price than it is today and how it will be after the whole law is in place. So I'm going to vote in favour of this bill. And please, until lunchtime, vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u119	Thank you for your clarification. 26th Amendment, Melnik. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm in, but a lot of authors want to insist right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the point of the amendment is that the lowering coefficient is applied to already imported cars with engine volume of up to 2,000 cubic centimeters, because the proposal of the committee -- by the 3rd -- is quite incomprehensible. The next one should be a corridor, three or more. And so 3, it's going to work, it's going to be 3 and then it's going to be 3 and then it's going to be 3. I'd still like to clarify and put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u121	Please identify yourself for 26 amendments, colleagues. [[13:10:11]] For-81 The correction is being rejected. 34 amendment, People's Chamberlain. Then you say I didn't give you my word. 34 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u122	I'd like to put on a confirmation of this amendment, which would not have been accepted and which was requested by the associations of the owners of such a car. And there's more. One member of the government called me and said, "Caplin, why are you voting for this bill because it's a budget loss?".. I answer to all members of the government. 35 years ago, my late Chernobyl father, when he was tired of waiting for the state, from the Soviet turn of the car, went to the bank and bought coupons for the Tavria loan. When I asked a little girl why we took this yoke for the family and my grandchildren would pay for it, he said to me, "Sergia, I want to feel human." Today those simple people on the street want to feel human, they want to live, not exist, and they have the right to. And that's why our entire team, myself, Alexander Sugonako, will vote in favour of this bill to give them this opportunity if the state can't give them the opportunity to earn a decent car.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u123	We vote, please, for 34 amendments, more faithfully, we determine on it. It's a committee against it. Please make up your mind. [[13:11:50]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. Batenko insists on 37th. But the committee considered it essentially. Colleagues, if we put her to the vote now, she'll take off at all. Are you insisting? All right. Please turn on the microphone now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, well, the committee takes into account essentially, but in fact we don't see a reflection of this position. Therefore, our amendment refers to the exclusion from the excise goods not only of car bodies but also of all means of transport by cancelling the excise duty on imports. And we think that the bill's proposed by the profile committee and the drafters that we're considering, the excise mechanism is discriminatory with regard to low-cost cars and very favourable to elite cars, because excise duty will only vary twice, and the cost of such cars will vary around a dozen times. And Ukrainian citizens demand that the excise be abolished for all means of transport and the removal of unthinkable corruption restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u125	I'd like you to decide on the 37th amendment. The committee actually counted it. The author insists that he did not consider it. [[13:13:02]] For-81 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 39th. Alexander Kugel does not insist. So everyone will hear that I announced this amendment. So we don't go back to her. Next up is 40th, Rybchin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u126	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill foresees the abolition of the environmental Euro standard. Standards are a document that forces auto-producers to improve the production of engines for economic fuel consumption and reduces the amount of harmful substances in exhaust gases. It's kind of what we're with you, our kids, our grandchildren are breathing. So I'd like to introduce a separate coefficient of ecology that allows, first of all, to blur out in six months what is now being imported. Maybe people will even change some of the old Soviets into more eco-friendly European cars, but then it makes it easier to drive the non-ecological Euro-1 machine, 0, 2, 3, because it's a world evil. I've been talking to the guys who are standing there, they're backing up. And I understand that the guys who buy the car now, they're 2, 3, 4 years they're not going to buy cars anymore. Against this amendment, the only one is smugglers who want to do business. Let us not only think about those who want to buy a car but also about those who will suffer from it because they will breathe that air. Please support ecology.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u127	I'd like to make 40 adjustments, please. The committee turned her down. [[13:14:40]] For 111 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 42nd. So is Rybchin. Colleagues, we ask you very much to speed up the pace, not to insist on unprincipled amendments, so that we can vote on this whole block of important bills. Please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u128	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. The second part of my readjustment, "ecology," refers to the support of electric cars and hybrids. Dear colleagues, we have 80 percent of the economy's dependence on imports of fuel from Russia and Belarus. You realize that diesel fuel, gasoline and scraped gas is imported by one person, the honey starts with the name "chuck" ends. And there's a very large number of people sitting on these schemes, and then they're funding separatism. So my proposal is to support electric cars, to support hybrids that don't consume much fuel. I offered zero excise duty for electric cars and 25 percent for hybrids. For electric cars it works now, the hybrids I'm just proposing to give a symbolic discount of 0.25, a coefficient of 0.75, which is 25 percent, not dividing, as before, there, the hybrids with the charge station or the sprays that don't exist. Please support electromobiles and hybrids with a coefficient of 0.75.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u129	Please identify 42 amendments, the committee rejected them. [[13:16:16]] For-100 The correction is being rejected. 43rd, Batenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Parasuk, co-author of the same amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u131	Please, the Parachuac word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u132	Friends, if you think you're going to solve this bill with such excises all over Ukraine, you're wrong. People all over Ukraine are asking for available blurry, not the next schemes they want to go through through the profile committee right now. People's deputies, you're all going to come home and you're going to answer people's questions that they're going to ask you. They bought these cars, not from a good life, but from the fact that the country's economic situation was just below ground and so they had to find an alternative market, they found it. Now they're demanding that these cars be legalized, and you're still giving them dragon bets that they can't get through. But for car monopolies, you open huge gates. So think about what you are doing. You all go home and they'll ask you all a question. Remember!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u133	Please specify 43 amendments. Please. At the same time, I ask the author's team to talk about the substance of the amendment, not to make political assessments throughout the bill. We didn't understand the correction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't scream! [[13:17:42]] For-75 75 "for" supported your amendment. I can scream too. Next up, 45th. Please, National Deputy Levchenko, one and a half minutes, because he had earlier amendments that he had not been able to announce. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u134	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'm going to make two amendments. First, amendment number five. The point is that today there is an absolutely absurd situation where not only the value of goods or services but also the amount of duty and excise taxes are added to the tax base. And this is total nonsense, because VAT is supposed to tax exclusively the cost of the product, not the cost of excise duty, which is excise duty, and then VAT. Excuse me, this is, in fact, an artificial road trip, an artificial mugging of people. So I insist that the VAT base be exclusively the cost of goods without excise duty and without duty. This is the first time. And second of all, the 45th Amendments are ours. The 45th Amendment refers to the counting of this excise duty. You have to do everything possible right now to find a balance between the need to fill the budget, between the need to protect the environment from old cars and the availability of cars for most Ukrainians who can't get right now, they can't get normal cars in use because they're not available. So we're going to propose to reduce your ratio by 2, divide k by 2, but add a new coefficient that will contribute, especially to social justice. The more expensive a car is, the more excise it is. So we're offering four coefficients: 1, 3, 7, 11, which will be counted according to the cost of the car. Because somehow it's strange why they have the most unprotected versions of citizens, why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u135	Thank you very much for explaining the substance of the amendments. Please, the 5th vote is now. Five-y, please identify yourself. 5th Amendment, please identify yourself. The author was very resourceful in explaining the point of the two amendments. We thank you so much for talking about repairs, about their essence. [[13:19:57]] For-94 And the next is the 45th, which refers to four positions in the authors' explanations. I'd like to make a statement. 45th next. [[13:20:17]] For-74. The correction is being rejected. Next, as well as your esteemed colleague Batenka, 46th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. This amendment means that all means of transport are excluded from the excise goods, cancelling the excise duty on imports. We suggest canceling the excise completely, but our amendment has certainly been rejected. I want to say that, from the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it turns out that the adoption of this bill, by honourable colleagues, has been emphasized by public organizations in favor. But in an approved version committee, it's going to cost 2 billion dollars. At the same time, we argued that cancelling the excise entirely on all means of transport: both light and cargo, and buses, and mottos, the budget will fill. Is it better to make a decision that will take such important costs from the budget during the war period, or to make an adequate, balanced decision on how to eliminate excise duty, which will help to upgrade the car park in Ukraine? Thank you. We insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u137	Thank you very much for explaining the substance of the correction, a respected colleague. I'm asking you to make 46 adjustments. Thank you. The committee turned it down. [[13:21:36]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Next up is the 48th National Deputy Opanasenka. Excuse me. Next, 47th. People's MP, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u138	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. My amendment, in principle, concerns what we have just voted on, the amendment. But I would like to pay attention to the following thing. As head of the technical regulation subcommittee, I can't afford to vote, frankly, for lowering cars that will import and register Euro-4, Euro-3, Euro-2 and Euro-1. But understanding the situation in the country today and understanding that we need to be able to register these cars just for ordinary, ordinary citizens who can't buy expensive cars, I think I'm going to vote for this law today, depending on what the fines are going to take into account. However, I would like to point out that such cars that will be registered should be foreseen in the future, and I think maybe even by the end of this session, before the New Year, a bill that is already registered by our co-authors regarding the technical examination of cars. This is the case with cars like this, a technical examination, for today, can sort of sort of sort of sort of environmental discards, which are kind of like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u139	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify yourself by 47 corrections. We don't vote. Moving on, the 48th Amendment of Opanasenka, one and a half minutes, because it's going to sound like three amendments: 48, 50 and 74. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u140	Irina Volodymyrna, you promised two minutes. Thank you. Colleagues, I've made three corrections: 48, 50 and 74. They were directed, as previous colleagues said, to cancel excise duties at all, but to introduce and expand transport taxes directly to make a model, as in normal developed countries: the older the car, the higher the cost of ownership. Unfortunately, though, this model did not find some support on the committee. I hope the next time we do something like this, because we don't have to be a dump for, in fact, a car. In fact, old cars from all over Europe. I think, and likewise, colleagues, I'm addressing the committee members and all the colleagues who are in the room right now, when we vote, we have to consider the 61-prim amendment. 1, this is a committee amendment. According to which it is assumed to be a 2 - month debt period and an existing rate of 0.5 and then 0.75 for an additional 2 months. Colleagues, this is a completely unacceptable story. If we enter, taxes should primarily be transparent, simple, and fair. If the tax is unfair, we encourage people not to pay taxes at all. In fact, when we create the possibility of this window, this benefit for two months, we cheat everyone else who won't be able to. We have to do a benefit that will apply to all Ukrainians, all taxpayers. So my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u141	Thank you, two minutes is up. I'm asking you to make amends. Two minutes. Guys, it's been two minutes. Please, Amendment 48 we vote whether you simply vote. We don't vote. I thank you so much for explaining. The following are the amendments of the Batenka People’s Deputy. Likewise, colleagues, 51st and 50th. No, 51st. Please, Chewchenka. Chewchenka microphone, please. Father or Chewchenka? 49th. Father, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u142	Dear friends! Please make sure that the chairman does, after all, put a live broadcast on the street, because there are public activists there for two days, thanks to which this bill basically appeared in the session hall. And please comment on the amendment: Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u143	You can't. Please, Mr. Parasuk. But remember that we have one minute. Please, Mr. Parasuku, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u144	Mrs. Irina, don't you think you can afford much? And I think you're taking too much time. You're saying I have no right to comment politically on the bill's amendment. What am I supposed to do here? I'm just like you. So let us not exceed your authority. Okay. Because before the law, we're the same. Okay? Now it's a bill. Friends, this is where they start telling us that all these cars are going to be harmful to ecology. Ecology is damaging to the carpathian forest, and the fact that you came here on five gallons of land cruisers and Mercedes is damaging to ecology. Not these miserable cars that people bought for the last money. Now, let's get to the point. As far as this bill is concerned. You may have made up the rules, but how do you implement those rules in Ukraine when people have to go abroad in two months, take the car out of registration and put it here for registration? And what Nina Jujanin says about not leaving, so let me tell you that the legislation of other countries requires that we be present during the removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u145	I'd like to make 51 adjustments. Dear colleagues, and people say, and people say that, under Parliament, you didn't come here either. Yes of course. Please, Your Honor, vote on 51 amendments. Sorry, that's 49. But not on "Lanas," not on "Lanas," we vote for this amendment. [[13:27:33]] For-55 Thank you, Your Honor. 55 for. 51st, this is Chevchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u146	Congratulations, my friends. I mean, this bill doesn't solve the issue of the accessibility of cars to the Ukrainian people. It protects the so - called autoprom. Our amendment 51, which has been rejected, suggests that by 31 December 2019, VAT should be exempt from the import into Ukraine and the implementation in Ukraine of personal means of transport, with the exception of those originating in or imported from the aggressor country. Request for confirmation. The cancellation of VAT will be compensated by the growth of the economy as a result of the increased business activity of the population using imported cars will be used. So public transport, utilities, will be updated accordingly. A partial compensator will also be the increase in VAT from the development of all types of business and the increase in income from growth in the economy. I mean, talk about what. And it's not worth making life difficult for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u147	Thank you for explaining the correction. I'm sorry I got the numbers all mixed up. Please, 51st. I'd like to make a statement. Determining, yes! Yes of course, 51st. And o'key, too. [[13:29:08]] For-68 The correction is being rejected. Next, 52nd, Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u148	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that the environmental adjustment that would allow people to blur things that have already been imported has, however, banned smugglers who are already driving dangerous cars here with vans and convoys. For six months, people have the opportunity to blur out everything that's been brought here, give them the opportunity to replace the old cars with the ones they already had, and then they wouldn't be able to do that, because that would be much more expensive. And in two, in three years, Euro-5 cars would have been ten years old, people could have taken it. This was not only mine, but also colleagues of Katzer-Buchkowska, Bandurov, Yemen, Petrenko, Yvchenko, Ednak, Skrum. But I'm asking you to gather around the next turn of 53 Mrs. Ostrikova, who cancels VAT for electric cars, or 54th (my) which does the same thing: VAT for electric cars by 2021. Please gather around the following lines, which will allow those who want to have electric cars to continue what is in place today for another two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Ostrick's microphone. We're looking at the 53rd amendment now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, about electric cars. You and I voted in favour of granting VAT exemption for electric vehicles equipped with purely electric engines in the budgetary process in 2017. Accordingly, this year we have a VAT exemption, but this benefit ends on December 31, 2018. I would like to point out that by July 2018, 3,600 electric cars had already been imported into Ukraine. Most of them are budget carsNissan Leaf. I very much ask you to gather around my 53 amendments, which are proposed to continue this VAT benefit by 2020. I'm asking you very much, let's do this with you, taking into account the fuel situation, taking into account the situation that this is still a reduction in the consumption of imported fuel. Let's give people the opportunity to continue to drive electric cars with the help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u151	Please. The chairman of the Committee of Understanding is required. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u152	Dear colleague and colleagues in the hall! Indeed, there was a very good standard. But we have in the Tax Code, unfortunately, more than 20 rules are being completed for all sectors, and this will have to be taken into account in the consideration of Bill 9260 before the second reading. So this amendment, calculated by the Ministry of Finance, regarding the exemption from VAT on the importation of electric vehicles can only be included in that bill. The whole set of amendments to electric cars, we agreed to exclude this bill. That's exactly the effect on the budget. And in 9260, let's look at the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u153	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify 53 amendments. We vote and we take into account that, as the previous speakers said, this is about the amendment block -- 52nd, 53rd, 54th, where. Please be determined. [[13:32:38]] For-146 The correction is being rejected. Next, if I understand correctly, 56th. And you were talking about her. Excuse me, dear colleague. 54th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u154	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there's a question to the committee, because our colleagues went out, they were talking to the guys who were standing there, they weren't satisfied with it. There are people who don't satisfy the question that electric cars aren't counted. So the question of this law arises. So I'm asking everyone to regroup around 54 adjustments that allow you to blur without VAT on an electric car. And I don't care what the authorship is, whether it's Ostrick's, or Rybkin's, or other colleagues. There were a lot of licenses for electric cars. We need to gather around this issue and not translate for a week, for two, for some other standards, we don't need to look at the IMF position, which says we don't need new benefits or continuations. I think we have to take care of ecology, and because people don't have charging stations, people don't have very many things, the government does, like in Europe, the government doesn't subsidize it in any way. So we have to cancel VAT and excise for electric cars. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u155	Colleagues, please make up your mind, 54 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. You mentioned it, Mr. Alexei, in your previous speech on the amendment, so I did. [[13:34:03]] For 111 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 56th, Yemen. Jemec, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u156	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. My dear colleagues, I understand, there are people, oligarchs in this country and outside this country who are very interested in Ukrainian citizens paying cloudy diesel fuel prices, in the form of gasoline that ordinary Ukrainian citizens cannot afford today. And when Ukrainian parliamentarians offered to give Ukrainian citizens the opportunity simply to save money, to save on gasoline, to have cheap electric cars, and to pay for a bowl, it was easy. That's ten times less than gasoline. The lobby, the lobbying of these fuel manufacturers, and the lobbying of these oil companies in the Ukrainian Parliament today want to take away the right to save gas from Ukrainian citizens. They want people to be poor so people can sit on subsidies. They want people to be obliged to keep reporting to the state for where they are taking those poor coins so that they can spend on the Ukrainian oligarchs. Those who don't support electric cars are against Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please comment to the chairman of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u158	Dear colleague, the excise tax on electric cars is equal to 1 euro minus 1 kilowatt time of engine power. What are you talking about? The maximum excise duty rate is 50 euros. This is exactly what this law establishes. So it's about the electric cars in this law that we've taken care of, we've taken care of, we've taken care of. What about the VAT exemption? This is already a more complex question that needs to be solved with Minfin's calculations the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u159	Please be clear, colleagues, we are now voting on the amendment. Excuse me, is this the 56th Amendment? 56 amendments, please be made. Colleagues, I really thank everyone who adheres to the Rules and goes essentially to the amendment, because then the hall is easier to identify. [[13:36:27]] For 118 The correction is being rejected. Next, 57th, Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u160	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. My faction supports the demands of people who want to unscramble the cars they have already driven. And my faction also supports the demands of those people to protect the environment from those machines, because in other people, for example, they live on the Forest of Ukraine, yes, which is very heavily loaded, there will be even more pressure and they will be hurt by the fact that there's a lot of trouble. Their real estate will go down in price because they have a large amount of exhaust gas. We need to make complex decisions that we've been offering: give people who have driven, blur it, and get them to drive, replace their old Soviet cars for new ones, buy maybe new cars, and do something with them, some business to open up. They're not mutually exclusive, they're complementary. We should think about a large number of people, not just allowing free or cheap sweeping of those who do. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u161	Please be sure, 57 revisions. [[13:37:49]] For 111 The correction is being rejected. The next two amendments are the same: 58th and 59th. Microphone, please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u162	The next amendment concerns the support of those cars that work in a taxi and are electric cars to relieve them of taxes temporarily for 2 years. Those machines that move a lot in cities where the greatest concentration of gases is, we have to encourage taxi drivers not to sit on Europlums to charge (now illegally, by the way, it's done) and they chose machines that cost of ownership, that is, the cost of owning these cars is cheap so that they're not so harmful to the environment. So we have to support the taxi on electric cars. That's what Europe does. This does, I don't know, go to Georgia and see what benefits the state gives to taxi drivers who are on electric cars, and how this business is developing, although they don't have that many multimillion-dollar cities that we have. That's why we have to take care of people in a complex, complex way, not just of electric cars, but of neurons. We're going to be able to fully support the taxi on electric cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u163	I'd like to make 58 adjustments, colleagues. [[13:39:14]] For a hundred and The correction is being rejected. 59th. Thank you, sir. 60th, Drevyanka. A microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u164	Dear colleagues and dear Ukrainians! I want to address my fellow national MPs first. All those in this room yelling and tearing their shirts off that this law solves the problem of the people who came to the Supreme Council, it's all a lie. Why don't you go out to the people and ask them if this bill in the committee's office solves the problems of the people who came here. The answer is, it doesn't definitely solve, from the point of view of bets or from the point of view of corruption, which is set in a two-month period to blur out, think about, 2 million 800,000 cars, according to the DFS, what the activists have told us. It's not enough that my amendment calls for zero excise duty. I suggest we put her to the vote. But once again I want to say that this law in the committee's drafting is absolutely not a definite solution to their problems, they are absolutely against it. Who doubts this, please go out to the people and ask them. I propose that we cancel those changes that apply to the age ratio, and those adjustments that apply to the time and time limit are a corrupt ingredient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u165	I'd like you to decide on 60 amendments, colleagues. The committee turned her down. [[13:40:45.]] For-68 The correction is being rejected. Next, 67th. 65th, 65th, Lechenko. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. 61 amendments, National MP Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u166	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to say one more time about my previous amendment, which suggested a fair formula for the calculation of excise duty. Unfortunately, I was not allowed to agree, and unfortunately, this session hall, which works exclusively for 1 percent of the richest population in Ukraine, did not vote for it. The question is, as you prescribe the age ratio, as you prescribe it, you're going to tax just these middle class surpluses that are left over in Ukraine, and the vast majority of people who can't afford just a car, you have to cut the age coefficient twice, and you have to introduce the cost coefficient, there's going to be social justice: the more expensive a car, the more excise. And that's how you can fill that budget hole that you keep talking about. I don't understand how you can explain why you don't want to set the cost ratio. Where is your logic in general, outside? Obviously, it's just the protection of the richest sections of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u167	Please determine 61 amendments, please, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, we still have until recess to decide by voting on this bill. With all due respect to all the dear colleagues present who have joined in the amendments. [[13:42:21]] For-75 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 65th, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the amendment proposes to leave high, high-priced excise duty rates for cars manufactured or imported from the aggressor country. But given that we have taken into account the idea that experts have expressed that the basic principle of tax law is not discrimination, so we ask the government to consider immediately the issue of restrictive measures to import such vehicles from the territory of the aggressor States, which will mean a total ban on the import. I also want to sound our faction's position on the application of the lowering factor of 0.5. We're very much asking you to take our offer into account and make, considering both the New Year's period, and the customs load, make the application of this benefit coefficient for all six months, or at least 90 calendar days. Then we are ready to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u169	Thank you. Please identify 65 amendments, colleagues. Please. [[13:43:44]] For-98 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, my dear colleagues. Wait a minute. People's MP Rybchin, 67, 2 minutes. He's going to hear all of his amendments, which are still there, and there's a lot of them, until the end of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I've decided to group together a complex set-up that applies to electric cars to get to the vote as soon as possible. I think today, without waiting for two weeks for the first reading, then it's not clear when there will be and what will be included in the complex bills, I think we should encourage the consumption of those aggregates that consume electricity itself are electric gas. We have a great transit potential between Asia and Europe, and we need to develop a complex of power stations, we need to move on to more technology. In Europe, it is already thought that in 2025 they will have electrolytes. In America, it's already planned that the Teslas that people bought, and then they're going to charge like drones, they're going to earn that no taxi driver at all. And now we can't make the benefits certain for electric cars. So my regulations are 68.69.70.71 and 72 relate to the duty-free import of electric trucks, utility cars, cleaning equipment and so on. So that utilities can drive on cheaper fuel and not spend taxpayers' taxes on fuel-oil materials. Once again, 80 percent of our gasoline, diesel, and compressed gas comes from Russia and Belarus. There's a person on these circuits whose name starts with "m," ends up working very hard with the President and then funding various separatist movements. And these adjustments also apply to fire techniques, and these are related to the large amount of electricity that we have to import. And it only works for a couple of years. Because we're capable of producing. We need to take the best Western analogs, watch them work and then copy, because we have a great potential to produce this technology ourselves. I demand that this be resolved now, so please put these amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u171	Please, 72 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. And it will show us how we would be willing to vote on other amendments to this block. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:46:26]] Z-91 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 73rd. Batenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Now this amendment is absolutely the principle for the entire session room because it shows all the members of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of recognition of Russia as an aggressor and voted in favour of Ukraine's Euro-integration. What will you continue to tell people? And actually this is the last drop, if it's not voted out, which is going to outweigh the scales of not voting on us as a whole, the representatives of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots, I think, and a lot of the sober-minded MPs here in the hall, for this disgraceful, I think, bill. This amendment proposes to ban imports into Ukraine of any means of transport and body to them from the aggressor country. The bills proposed do not prohibit the import of cars from the aggressor country, which is a nonsensus in the fifth year of war, honored friends. Please place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u173	Please identify 73 amendments. Please make up your mind. [[13:47:40]] For 121 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment, please, 64th. 64th, we missed. The author insists. Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u174	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. The idea of my amendment was to rule out positions that allow for the import of cars, old cars, the mess that is actually subject to high taxation in Europe and that are being dumped for sale in Ukraine. We are adopting many laws in the session room that strengthen the environmental protection of our home land. We are in pain for the country to be the best. And at the same time, here, we're allowing it to be transformed into a cemetery for an old mess that's being thrown out of Europe into our territory. So my proposal was actually to exclude the rule and not allow the old junk to be imported, taking into account this bill. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u175	Thank you. Please specify 64 amendments. Colleagues, we have literally five minutes left. I ask you very much to return to the hall, colleagues. [[13:49:00]] For-89 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 87, Ednak. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, in fact, have problems with this law because emissions from light cars are the main source of air pollution in cities. And the situation in Kiev, in Dniper, in Kharkiv, in Zaporozhye, and in many other cities is, to say the least, bad. In fact, the law proposed by the committee makes the environmental situation in Ukrainian cities worse. We and the team of authors have proposed a special environmental coefficient, because this law actually eliminates the environmental standards of the Euro, and this is going to make the environmental situation worse. We don't see the position of the Ministry of Profitability, the Ministry of Nature, how the environmental situation gets worse. I would also like to express my concern that the work of the committee was unclear and we failed, we had no reports of meetings, and we were unable to protect our amendments. So, dear colleagues, there are great environmental risks to this bill, and I want to warn everyone about it and warn them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u177	Please identify 87 amendments, 87th. Don't insist. Next amendment, I'm sorry, 90 Petrenko. Please. Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u178	This is the coming of an amendment, and I think we can conclude that there have been total disregard for the rights of the national MPs to this bill, as well as the totally ignored demands of the people who are under the walls of the Supreme Council and who wanted a banal, really accessible dispersion of the road transport. Therefore, it is unacceptable to vote in favour of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u179	Thank you. He doesn't insist on voting. Colleagues, we had seven other amendments to the national deputy Rybchin, ready to unite them all in the same act. Two minutes. Please 91 amendments, there's 89th, and there's a lot more to it. Please. This is the last one. I'm asking you to return to the session room. I'm sorry, Kaplin, yes. Please, National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u180	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. I really decided to unify all my amendments that involved a large number of questions and that we would get to the vote sooner. I want to say that the government has not provided economic growth of 5, 6, 7 percent of GDP in order for people not to think about how to buy cheap "euroblach," protested here, blocked roads and saved everything they can to drive the cars they want to drive. If the government were to ensure economic growth, people would think about things that are completely different than how to survive and have a car in order to, I don't know, charge overnight. I think there should be government officials from the Ministry of Infrastructure, from the Ministry of Ecology, from the Ministry of Economics, who have been on working groups, but unfortunately we don't hear their position right now. What about ecology? Because we're adopting a bill that's going to have a very strong impact on a large number of things, on a large number of generations. Where is the government that moved itself and wasn't on the committee? There was no government position yesterday, only letters from him. I want to say that those bills that you and I might have with you, Mrs. Nina Yuzanin, we're going to be talking about next week or next week, they're about supporting our own manufacturer, our own manufacturer of electric machines, which I fully support. However, temporarily, for a year, we need to allow people to drive cheap electric cars for two. I want you to now promise that it is the continuation of VAT, the extension of zero excise duty and other benefits for electric cars that will be voted on and included in this legislation. Because those bills have a question of lithium, which is unfortunately stolen from Ukrainians, a strategic resource from which batteries can be produced, and he's being tested by one of the national deputies and the companies that are close to them, according to colleagues, by journalists, it's stolen. So this bill, it's more complex and it's more difficult. I think we should decide this right now. We vote, colleagues, for the bill, we support the sweep for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u181	Thank you so much for the design. The last amendment is 79th. People's deputy Kaplan wants her back. Colleagues, in a minute of voting. Please, now the word of Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u182	Since this is the last amendment, I would like to sum up today's discussion, which reminds me of the theater of absurdity. For 25 years, you, all of you here, have destroyed the Ukrainian economy, destroyed the Ukrainian state, driven millions of ordinary people under the plentuse, and now you're speaking in short words, and you're saving these simple people. I am absolutely convinced that neither this law nor the next, slightly higher quality, solves the problems of ordinary citizens who want to drive quality new Ukrainian cars. This is resolved only by the reintroduction of power, which is resolved only by the arrival of new forces in parliament that are rebuilding machinebuilding and restoring justice. And this is a lesson for all of Ukraine, for the trade unions, for the political parties, a lesson in solidarity for those who defend their interests today -- "eurolochers" who came here to defend their right to live, not to exist, to protect their right to be human, not an entity. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I would like to point out that we've pushed the debate in the room over time today, we've voted for inclusion in the Tax Code. Him. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's going to sound! He's already on his hands. So, colleagues, I'm warning you that I'm going to continue this meeting for 15 minutes, and right after voting for this bill, I'm going to put the Tax Code into the agenda for making a decision. There'll be a vote in a minute. Nina Petrovna’s minute will say the closing word in which she will correct the changes, especially for 90 days. Nina Petrovna, one minute. And we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, about the value ratio, he's always there because 30 percent is a bribe, and VAT is paid from the cost of cars. And the cost of new cars doesn't go down because it comes from manufacturing factories, and that's 30 percent of the cost that's paid extra. This is the first time. Secondly, we were told by activists that they agreed to an excise tax rate of up to 400 euros. That's exactly the bet we made. What are you talking about? 400 euros will be the excise they have to pay to the Pension Fund. So I'm stressing again, please don't manipulate. After listening to and consulting the coalition, and the proposal now being proposed, I ask you in Amendment 60-1 to take into account: in paragraph 20, the draft law, where you proposed to apply a downward factor of 30 plus 30 calendar days, 60, to make a downward coefficient of all 90 calendar days, and 0.75 that was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u185	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u186	For all 90 days, calendar days, 0.50. Without using a particle 0.75. In this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u187	I see. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm betting on the vote. Oh, please finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u188	I ask that the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be entrusted with the technical and legal drafting of the legislation that has just been adopted, with only one change. And I ask you to vote in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u189	Thank you. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation by Excise Tax on Light Means of Transport (No. 8487), as amended, which was written by the head of the Committee on 90 calendar days, second reading and, as a whole, by technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:58:16]] For the 250. The law is passed. Colleagues, now pay attention! We have a bill amending the Tax Code. We have 17 minutes. I ask everyone to maximize their mobility and go through it quickly and efficiently. My first vote. Proposal: Draft Law 9260 - under reduced procedure. Please, for the summary procedure, please vote. Vote. [[13:58:52]] For 177 Decision taken. First report. Markar's Oksana. Please take your seat, Mrs. Oksano. It'll be faster from here. From place to place and very short. Then the co-report, the Jujanina, then the two, the two, the other two, the other two. I'm reminding you that I went on for 15 minutes. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Please, Oksana. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Requesting support for a bill developed by the government aimed at ensuring balanced budgetary revenues in 2019 and the fulfilment of Ukraine's commitments under the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. What do we propose? We propose to increase the number of excise duties on tobacco products by 9 percent, to increase the environmental tax, but in a temperate way by 5 years. We suggest a slight decrease in the other bets. It is a great request to support and support the consideration of the second reading by means of a simplified procedure, during which we are fully settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u191	Julian Nina Petrovna is invited to the report. Nina Petrovna. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, today the bill was considered at a committee meeting. As we agreed with you last time that we didn't accept the proposal for a resource bill, now in the bill, the bill is aimed at improving administration in some areas, and this improvement will bring significant revenue to the budget. But to calculate the budget balance and to fill a budget of 6.3 billion dollars, some excise tax rates and some interest rates were indexed. I ask you to vote on the committee's decision. to vote and adopt the law on the basis of the second reading and to elaborate on the inaccuracies and changes that we would need to make. That's why I'm asking. The committee recommends that Bill 9260 be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u193	Please record: two in, two in. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to do their best. This is an important bill that passes the Tax Code to Parliament. I'm asking you to do as much as I can. Herasims from the BP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u195	From Self-Help, Opanasenko Alexander. Ostrikova, Ostrikova. Laconically, Mrs. Tetyano.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill that will ensure the balance of the state budget. There are, of course, some positive things here, such as raising environmental tax rates for those enterprises that are now polluting the environment, introducing an electronic fuel management system that covers a lot of schemes that are currently in the petrol industry. But I'm paying attention to what is being done here by tax agents of postal operators express carriers that will collect and pay VAT liabilities when imported into the customs territory of goods in international postal and express shipments by citizens. This rule is in itself wrong and is torn out of context. I now turn to the full - time minister of finance. Mrs. Markarov, I'm addressing you, you've approved the standard for parcels, which is very wrong. You forgot to add the administration that was laid down in the Customs Code because unfortunately, the Government of the Customs Code didn't approve. So you or this rule get out of here, and you get the order, you cancel that rule that didn't work for three packages without taxes and a fourth with taxes. This rule should be repealed, rather than adding to the bill a standard for the introduction of an electronic register of recipients. Such gross negligence on the part of the Ministry of Finance will again lead to a collapse in customs, because if we don't, since January 1, customs will not be able to determine whether this is the first shipment, or whether it's the twenty-first shipment, will be taxed accordingly from the first shipment of citizens. So please do not allow such negligence and add the administration that was to be laid down in the Ukrainian Customs Code regarding the creation of an electronic register of recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u197	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm warning you, I'm not adding 30 seconds. It's no longer possible. From Front? Everybody backs up, right? Support me? From the opposition block of Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u198	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! This is a bill that is necessary for the adoption of a budget, a budget that has nothing to do with social protection for the population, a budget that provides for spending on law enforcement agencies, a budget that reduces housing subsidies. As far as the substance of this bill is concerned. The minister of finance, with all due respect for her, spoke of a gradual 5 - year increase in environmental taxes. If you think 25 times the rise is progressive, I probably don't understand anything. And over the course of five years, 60 times. Who are we running politics against right now? Against a domestic manufacturer? It's not about improving the environment and combating pollutants into the atmosphere, it's all about the end-user, the production, the housing and utilities, the real product in Ukraine. I think these steps are groundless, short-sighted, not indexation. It is therefore necessary to foresee appropriate mechanisms to implement appropriate environmental programs, rather than fit the fiscal position that we are now seeing from the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the Opposition Block faction, as an opposition faction, will not take part in the voting of the Ukrainian Budget Act for the following year, nor in the voting of the related bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u199	So let's move on to making a decision. I ask you, colleagues, all to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. There'll be a vote in a minute. One minute, Kugel. In a moment, I ask everyone to be in position and ready to make a decision. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u200	I would also like to draw Mrs. Oksana's attention to the unprofessional nature of drafting the bill. First of all, it's an offer, what Ostrov said, a trust in a postal operator, an express carrier of tax agents' functions -- it doesn't comply with article 18 of the Tax Code. The other one. There is no justification. Mrs. Oksana, Capplin won't tell you anything about taxes anyway. Mrs. Oksano! Mrs. Oksano! Thank you. Further justification is needed for setting a zero instead of a reduced excise duty on ethyl alcohol. It's possible to have an irregular circulation. Mrs. Oksano, yesterday they showed very serious material, where they found an entire collection of alcohol near the border of the Donetsk area of the occupied, unoccupied, unoccupied area. Find out where it's coming from. And the main thing is to cut it short. By post, Mrs. Oksano.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u201	I said I wouldn't add 30 seconds. That's impossible. We're out of time. Colleagues, please, please. There won't be a line, there won't be a vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving administration and reviewing individual taxes and taxes (No. 9260) as a basis. On the basis of this, please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote in agreement, responsibly. We're backing it up. It's a budgetary process. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:08:09]] For 215 We didn't make it. Please be prepared. 215. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please prepare for the vote and take up jobs, colleagues. I understand that at 14:10 this is difficult, but I ask everyone to be in places during the vote. I'll be back in a minute. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote and I'm proposing to go back to the draft Resource Law 9260, which provides a transparent budgetary process. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote carefully for everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting back. [[14:09:07]] For 224 Two votes, I see. Stay where you are, colleagues. Stay put, please. I'm going to put it again, I'm going to ask everyone, and I can see how some of the people's deputies aren't in places during the vote. Take your jobs, go back to the hall who came out. So I'm asking for maximum mobilization. Everybody's in place, right? I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 9260, and I'm asking everyone to vote for the return, and to support, my colleagues, two votes. Please be careful, every voice. So please vote for the return. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[14:10:00]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. Now I ask everyone very, very carefully. Nina Petrovna, take the vote, please. Vote. Okay. So I'm putting the draft Law 9260 on the basis of my colleagues. Please vote, please support the base. Please vote on the basis. Vote. Please be supportive. I'd like everyone to vote in person. I'd like everyone to vote in person. [[14:10:37]] For 223 Three votes. So, colleagues, please take your seats. I'll put it back, I'll put it back. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I've already made a remark in the hall just so there's a personal vote. I responded and made a warning to all the national MPs. But I ask all the national MPs to be in places during the vote, colleagues. So, please support me, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone together. So, colleagues, the first vote to return to draft Law 9260. I ask you to vote for the return. Please vote and please support the return. We vote, colleagues, every voice matters, you see. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:11:45]] For 226 We're back. Colleagues, I'm calling on the people's deputies to have a personal vote in the room. I ask that there be a personal vote during the vote. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to be seated, colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats. You see, every voice matters. Colleagues, take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. So we're ready, right? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts (No. 9260). This is a bill that allows us to enter into a transparent budget process. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to support me, please vote for the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. We're voting on the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:13:28]] For 233 Decision taken. And now we're looking at a simplified procedure for second reading, colleagues. Carefully, consideration is limited to the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading, please vote, please support. Consideration of the simplified procedure for second reading. It's not a bill. You don't listen very carefully. This is preparation for the second reading, a reduced procedure. [[14:13:59]] For 165 Fellows, you don't understand, but the logic is that two weeks are going to be applied. We want a reduced procedure. It's 10 days to make amends. I'm asking you to support this -- a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. Please vote, please support. For a reduced procedure for second reading, please vote. For a reduced procedure, please support. That means all we're going to do for a few days is move faster, colleagues. [[14:14:37]] For-182 No votes, colleague. So, colleagues, we took it as a basis for a change to the Tax Code. And now, colleagues, I'm announcing that we're going to change to the Customs Code, to change to the Customs Code of Ukraine and some Ukrainian legislation on the import of vehicles. At 16 o'clock we'll start, from this draft law we'll start our work. Then, after the break, we'll start with the next law. So, Nina Petrovna, please be there. Now I'm giving Irina Heratschenko one minute to announce. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement came to the fore from our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Kugel, that her card did not work when voting for a bill on excise taxes, taxes, excuse me, light means of transport (8487). And Mrs. Kugel is in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m0.u203	Thank you. So, 14:15, this morning's plenary session I declare closed. It was a difficult, emotional meeting, but we made an important decision for the state to continue working on the budget. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work. And I would like to remind you that after lunch, we are moving into draft Law 8488 on the import of transport equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine.
