ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. So please take part in the registration, please register. Please. [[10:02:50]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today's our colleague's birthday is Oksana Vasilovna Jurinec. Hello, Mrs. Oksana, happy birthday! Good luck! I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to perform by the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. I would also like to remind you that we have a final review of the draft Law 5442, which we have not completed, following the regulations of the previous plenary week. And today, there's a social protection unit for the military. These are seven questions that I believe will be able to unite the hall and that we will be able to deal with, financial policy and transport. But the most important thing at the beginning of our work is to establish the order of the day session and also to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court and to give commission to the committee for its immediate consideration. So I ask all discipline and work together. Now I'm asking the factions and groups to prepare for the recording. Please, colleagues, all factions and groups, I ask you to prepare for writing. And I'd like you to record a statement from factions and groups. Please. Not all factions have been able to record. Let's do it again. Please cancel and re-record the factions from factions and groups. Please. Thank you. Colleagues, don't I understand if everyone wants to share in the discussion? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. All right, colleagues. Not all of them again. Yeah, I can see that. Colleagues, once again, please take your seats, and we'll re-record. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording and participate in the recording. Please record statements from groups and factions. Please. So let's move on to the performances. And I give the first word to the head of the Maxim Burbaku People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Last week, the People's Front faction registered a ruling against the Russian President's election to Crimea. Today we call again on Parliament to support the call for international co-operation in order to condemn and prevent the election of the Russian President to the Ukrainian Crimea. These are illegal elections that severely violate the rights of the inhabitants of the peninsula, and their outcome will be illegal. We must bring this to the international community and seek an appropriate response. Mr. Head, I ask you to give us an appropriate commission to consider this decision on the committee today, and we have voted today, and we have shown the world our attitude towards illegal elections in the Crimea. The People's Front faction insists on the quality of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. We suggest that a second reading be made available to him according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission. First. To include representatives of international partners in the selection of judges. The U.S.C.C. will have the authority to finally approve candidates in court. Yet it will not be able to ignore the mistrust expressed by the public council. The other one. The jurisdiction of the Anti-Corruption Court must be in line with the jurisdiction of the NABU and the SAP. Third. Rejecting excessive qualifications for candidates in anticorruption judges Five years of probation for judges is not necessary in a society that is totally insecure with judges. The court and appeal decisions can also be approved by any judge who has undergone the selection procedure. Four. The anticorruption court should not only be papered but also be constantly effective. We must ensure that all the legislators necessary for the full start of the court's activities are put in place as soon as the bill is passed. That is why we are voting for the agenda today. The commission of the committee is to consider the first reading. And we're starting to create an anti-corruption court. With regard to the work of NAZK. After all, this agency should be fully operational. This also applies to checking declarations automatically. Parliament must also implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission on electronic declaration as soon as possible. We must do our utmost to ensure that the newly created anti-corruption bodies in the higher echelons of power, created by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk, work effectively. So the faction gave the order, and I revoked my signature under the law on parliamentary control of these organs. The People's Front is in favour of withdrawing the legislative requirement for compulsory declaration of income by civil activists and persons who receive foreign funds under assistance programmes as well as by foreign members of the Supervisory Boards. The People's Front insists on the rapid and comprehensive implementation of the law's rules of prodeoccupation. The law requires the preparation of consolidated claims for war damage to Russia. Russia's aggressor country must bear material, economic, political and criminal responsibility for all the crimes they are now committing in the Crimea. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should create an appropriate interdisciplinary body. Bills on national security, on the Ukrainian Security Service, and legislation to improve the interaction between the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff need to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u4	In addition, we have to legally ensure the audit of the Ucroborprom activity and the creation of an independent supervisory board for this state concert. In addition, it is necessary to bring the system into order in a number of important authorities. It is the appointment of the members of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the Nutzbank, Commissioner for Human Rights, of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u5	Thank you. To the word from the Opposition Block, Wilkul is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine! On February 9, 59 members of the Supreme Council requested the Constitutional Court to verify the responsibility of the Constitution of the Law on State Guarantees and Medical Services. On February 12, the Constitutional Court accepted the application. In fact, we demand that we recognize as unconstitutional the whole, so-called, medreform in general, because the only goal is to legitimize paid medicine in the country. The results of the activity of the overall vector of the responsibility of the head of the MoH Suprun are now visible, the country is returning epidemics that have not been heard of for decades, the catastrophic lack of vaccines, the lack of doctors, medicines, material and technical supplies at zero. Asking Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Suprun if they are aware of their responsibility for the death of children and adults from diseases that have been forgotten in Ukraine prior to the arrival of these so - called reformers, only to hear cynical answers about cost savings. In general, the whole essence of today’s power, the Ukrainians to them, is only a pitiful obstacle to the path to a bright future. As far as reform is concerned. We are offered to go to full-paid medicine in Ukraine, where the average wage is slightly over $200, and most pensions are about $70, people will have to pay for treatment at European prices. MOH and Kabin were unable to answer a simple question in the past year, What will be the guaranteed package of medical care and how much should people pay? And in the meantime, medicine continues to be financed by the residual principle, with only 30 to 40 percent of the need. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians die each year because they have not received the necessary treatment. Thousands of doctors work abroad each year, finally disheartening that they will be able to feed their families. Here are the real results of government activities in general and the Ministry of Health in particular. That's why we demand the resignation of the Suprun. I am addressing the Constitutional Court and its newly elected head, and you can have years to consider the issue of the powers of the President and the Prime Minister as long as it takes to argue about the responsibility of the Constitution, laws and regulations. But delaying consideration of the question of medical reform is simply a crime. Human experiments by the MOH over humans must be stopped, and the Constitutional Court must put an end to this question. And this will be a test for this court of independence, whether it serves the state and people or serves the interests of the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u7	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u8	And the last. Stop bullying military pensioners, don’t demean them with meager taxes, just obey the law, and give people an honest pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u9	Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, I and my faction colleagues met with the voters. Thousands of people we've been talking to: Dnipropetrovščina, Zaporizka oblast, Mariupol, Kharkiv, Ternopilščina, Lvivščina, Equine, Volin, Sumščina – and many other areas. The key thing that concerns people today is prices. Prices for food, for goods of great use. As a result of last year’s short decision to abolish government regulation on essential products, inflation accounted for more than 14 percent. The ingredient in this is the wrong policy of the National Bank when expensive and inaccessible loans are available, and the wrong economic policy. As a result, millions of pensioners, poor people, veterans, people with limited opportunities, and low incomes suffer primarily. We demand that the government immediately reinstate the government's price regulation of first-requirement products, protect the income of the most needy people. In addition, the issue of prices, tariffs, and inflation have an extremely painful effect on the income of Ukrainians. And that's an important question. And that's why we're asking the government to call here the Prime Minister, the government's financial and economic bloc with a report that they're doing to stop rising prices, rising inflation, and to protect even the low-income Ukrainians that people get today -- wages and pensions. Another extremely important topic is tariffs. The government again frightens people by raising gas prices in exchange for the International Monetary Fund’s loans. Today, more than 70 billion dollars are in the budget -- utility subsidies, 30 percent are in the amount of non-communal payments, because people don't have money. An increase in gas prices will result in more pay for gas than family income for a utility. We're asking the government to give up the idea of rising gas prices, more to extract its own gas. When the Crushing is 250 percent profitable! The drug barons don't make as much money on drugs as they do for the sale of gas to Ukrainian citizens. So cost-effectiveness, these incomes have to be invested in increasing own gas production, energy-modernization, and this will allow tariffs to be reduced and housing-communal services to be reduced. And the last. This week, the election of the new Head of the National Bank is scheduled. We insist that Gontareva, the current head of Nazbank, come to Parliament and report on her work. We can't just let her go! They robbed people, they destroyed dozens of banks, millions of Ukrainians ran out of savings, tens, hundreds of billions of dollars from the State Budget is now going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u11	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u12	To patch up those holes that allowed the management of the National Bank, and they just want to walk away. No, it's just that we won't let them go. The report is only after this resolution of the issue of resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u13	Please welcome the leader of the Rebirth Party, Victor Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, we are, as the Rebirth Party, concerned today with the only question that people raise throughout the country. After hearing that the government is planning to increase tariffs again, we have started to hear not just the conversion from all over the country, but the brutal, badest words to not only the government, at the address of all the Ukrainian authorities for what they do with these tariffs. Since 2014, the cost of gas for the population has risen 10 times. If it cost 725 dollars a thousand cubic meters in 2014, today it's 6,000 975 dollars. And after that, the government is going to propose that we raise the population tariffs again. I'm sorry, it's already genocide against the Ukrainian people. For the IMF's credit board you can do anything you want, the government thinks. But I'm sorry, you can do whatever you want, but it's not at the cost of destroying the population of Ukraine. Look what's happening today. Today, when the population owed 32 billion dollars for utilities, 8.8 million families today have applied for subsidies, 9 million families have no money to pay for these utilities. What happens at the same time? The Naftogaz of Ukraine, 2017, has 27 billion profits. For 2018, 35 billion profits are planned as planned. Crushing last year has almost 30 billion dollars in revenue and, as was said today, the cost-effectiveness of scrapping gas is almost 250 percent. This suggests that today the state-owned companies of the oil and gas complex are extremely profitable. In total, only Naftogaz Ukraine and Crushing is almost 50 billion dollars of net profit. So what tariff rise should take place for the population of Ukraine? We're looking at what's going on in general. Six and a half million people today, according to the State’s data, deny themselves what they need, in fact live only to feed and receive the money just to survive. Nearly 600,000 Ukrainian families do not even have enough to feed. So what are the tariff hikes to take place in the country today? So we're asking the government to do a real analysis of all of these things -- check all of these figures. The gas in Ukraine is self-sustaining for the salaries of utilities and for the consumption of the population too much, more than that, the surplus is 3.7 cubic metres. So our own gas is too much to provide the population of Ukraine at the price they have come, not to earn 250 percent by a thousand cubic meters. So I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u15	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u16	That's why we demand from the government a thorough report on the financial situation of Naftogazu, Crushing, tariffs for the population, subsidies granted. Why is the state’s debt of 26 billion dollars to utilities today? Why such debt in the population? And what do they see as a way out of this situation? Nearly 79 billion are now targeting subsidies rather than investing in energy savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u17	Thank you. Please welcome the leader of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon! I'm addressing you and I'm asking for your attention. I think that there is no secret in this room that Ukraine is economically in one of the last places in the world. According to Bloomberg, we're entering the world's ten worst economies, our standard of living is essentially the lowest among all the countries in the world. But in the background, Ukraine still has resources that can give enough impetus to restore the economy, to build up, to the resources that the people of Ukraine own, not to sell policies. And that's why I want to draw your attention to the fact that in 2007, in this Parliament, where government officials were far more than today, including by my own authority, which prohibits any manipulation with Ukraine's gas transport system, any leases, leases, concessions, privatization, corporations, everything in the world has been banned. Because of this property, it has both a political character and a priceless economic treasure for Ukraine. I can only tell you that in a country where government debt is almost equal to GDP, the gas transport system needs to invest 300 billion euros to build it from scratch today, remember that figure. But absolute fraud was adopted changes to the law that I just said. And now Mr. Kobolev has started the process, essentially, of transferring into the administration of the gas transport system without any money. 49 percent is passed on, and they also consider transferring not only to concession but practically to foreign companies. Please tell me, who gave Mr. Koboljev the right to manage the property of the people, who granted the right behind closed doors today to deprive Ukraine of the most valuable asset we have? Why does Parliament not know why the government behind Parliament is doing something? That's why I'm addressing everyone right now without excluding the deputies in this room. Dear friends, if there is not a single drop of conscience left in the politicians who have been given power today, we must immediately vote in the room on a bill that prohibits any manipulation of the gas transport system. 300 billion euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u19	30 seconds, please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u20	Remember that figure! And in reality today, the country's GDP is about 100 billion euros. Please tell me, who has the right to do this? The "Fatherland" party is immediately preparing a bill in an emergency. And I'm going to all factions to stop it immediately. Otherwise, this is exactly the kind of generation that the Council will not forgive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u21	The next performance is the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! This week, we're starting with a two-pronged cluster of issues that concerns strengthening the social protection of ATO military personnel and veterans, as well as bills to strengthen Ukraine's defence. One of the priorities is the Presidential draft of the Ukrainian National Security Act, which will be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. This is an essential document to continue reforming the entire security and defence sector. It will, in particular, greatly improve the effectiveness of countering Russian aggression. Therefore, we believe that all the democratic forces of Parliament should be consolidated to consider and adopt this bill. Our faction is confident that Parliament will unite in adopting a bloc of bills to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and members of their families. Next. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko is convinced that it is now necessary to adopt a decision on the creation of the Ministry of Ukraine in veteran affairs. So far, responsibility for social protection and support for Ukrainian military and veterans has been scattered among various government authorities. The creation of a ministry will help to implement more effectively the national policy of protecting Ukrainian veterans who deserve to be provided for their contribution to the preservation of Ukraine. Now it's about the need to solve the human resources issues. Yesterday at our faction, a meeting was held with Mr. Jacob Smolius, head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The faction of the Peter Prashenko Party supported his assignment. I would like to remind you that the profile committee also approved the appointment of Mr. Smolius as President of Ukraine. We also need to speed up the parliamentary vote with the appointment of an independent NABU auditor and the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission. Next. We ask our colleagues as soon as possible to allow the profile committee to start working on draft anti-corruption laws. It is also a reminder that an electronic declaration period has begun. Therefore, we urge that we do not delay the process of reviewing legislation to reverse the submission of electronic declarations by members of anti-corruption social organizations. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls for all to unite around the adoption in the first reading of Bill 7466 on the effective management of property rights in the field of copyright. The bill envisages the introduction of European rules governing the activities of a collective management organization, ensures transparency and enhances copyright protection in Ukraine. And finally, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party expects Parliament to strengthen our diplomatic front this week. This is about final adoption of the law on reforming the diplomatic service. So far, native diplomats have created a powerful front for the protection of the state in the international arena. However, for their work to be more effective, it is necessary to complete the transition to the best examples of national and world experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Yegor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u24	As long as there were no votes in Parliament, there was again a clash between the people in Ukraine. The clashes took place in court, which released the accused of corruption to the mayor of Odessa. The court has not yet ruled to remove him from office, not to mention the arrest, as the anticorruption prosecutor requested along with the Anticorruption Bureau. As a result of the collisions, people were injured, a police officer was injured, a former Berkutman, who was in a terrible black mouth during Eromaydan, shooting people. Then he was able to join the new police force and suffered during these clashes in court. In response, people were arrested, all those involved in the fighting, the people who came back from the war for independence and fought for order, for setting up what they were fighting for on the front. What trend, what future, how will this end in the country if we don't respond to these challenges? Parliament was and remains the only place where there are people who are capable of giving these challenges. Anti-corruption court. A decision that the whole world and not just the citizens of Ukraine understand about the need. A very simple and very important step that will give hope to those who go to parliament, to those who collect suitcases to emigrate from the country, to those who stay here, and in great despair and without great hope. We propose to start voting for this bill this week. There's no one in the room who doesn't understand how important this is. The demonstrators under the Council warned me that Thursday they would personally stop every MP who did not give his vote for that decision and ask him why. I repeat, Parliament is a place that has always found the answer to Ukraine's most important challenges. And our duty, our opportunity, our chance to do so. The decision on the establishment of an anticorruption court should be passed on to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u25	Please, Labazuk of the will of the people. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The new plenary week of Parliament's work begins, but the problems remain. We're taking reforms, we're talking about modernizing life in different areas, and we're boiling in our boiler. And the country is living its life, more specifically, looking for ways to survive. What concerns people in cities today, in the countryside? We can tell them as much as we can about the anti-corruption court, about another battle against windmills, but, understand, the Ukrainians today are looking forward to ending the war, preserving the land, stability in the economy, and confidence in tomorrow. Instead, the political order of the day brings down the IMF and our other external partners. And while we're playing the floor with the same IMF, that's not going to end well for the country. The state needs a national comprehensive programme to combat poverty. Not corruption, the main enemy of the state, but low levels of wealth of citizens. Not from a good life does people panic about rising prices and fluctuations in the currency market. For more than six months, the authorities have been unable to appoint the head of the National Bank, the minister of health. Dear colleagues, at this plenary week we have to finally put a dot on these issues. Anyway, in the last month, the agrarian sector is back in the turbulence zone. Now the situation surrounding the amendment of the Tax Code, which was adopted at the time of the adoption of the State Budget for 2018, has become a lacquer for the authorities. Because that's where the repairs were made that relate to the differences in VAT compensation when the sunflower, rape, and soy are exported. Farmers went out to take care of the authorities and were forced to stop the highways in order to bring about the lifting of the dragon’s decision, which would have a serious impact on their economic situation. With the support of agrarian associations and local self-government, we have drafted Bill No. 7403-2, which completely reverses the former VAT administration regime when exporting oil crops. When we consider and make a decision, we insist that we do so without delay. In general, farmers are peaceful people, they're not different in the belligerent moods, they're never supposed to rally, because if they're not sown, they're harvesting. But when they try to shut their fingers in the door, no one will shut up. "Fight," said the classic. So, our people have to really feel the change for the better, so we're able to consolidate around a common cause, and that's all we need to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u27	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done speaking from factions and groups, and we're moving to the agenda. I would like to remind you that we have not completed a review of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and some other laws of Ukraine concerning the security of the State abroad. We stopped at 49, reported Mustafa Nayem, and 50 of them, Semenah. But before that, the chairman of the committee will remind us of the bill, its consideration. And I want to emphasize, there's not much left, so I ask everyone to come into the hall, and the vote will take place literally in five minutes. And now the head of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, Cosemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, is two minutes. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your point is to continue the review of the comparative table prepared for second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Foreign Security of the State (5442). We started the second reading of this project on February 8, this year, we decided on almost all the amendments, and we finished the consideration of Amendment 50, we only had 20 amendments left, and only two of them were proposed by the committee for rejection, all of them included, so I suggest we continue the consideration. I would like to recall that the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a second-reading bill as a whole as a law, since the draft significantly strengthens the State Border Service in the areas of opposition to administrative offences committed both on the state border of Ukraine and within the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Dear Head, after considering the amendments, I will be speaking under the transcript of a series of rights, which were echoed on February 8, by the people's deputies of Ukraine, Palamarczuk, Skrum and Evtušek, and also in connection with the entry into force on February 24, this year of the Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of State Policy and the provision of State sovereignty to Ukraine in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Let's move on to the right-hand side. I remind you, the right hand isn't much and I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. 50 papers, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head! I wanted to speak on the 69th floor, the Semenah People's Deputy. I would like to point out that this bill deals directly with the issue of State security across borders and details the mandate of the State Border Service. And what do we see last week? Cease funding by the European Union for the modernisation of the western border of Ukraine. This is the result, I think, of criminal inaction and dispossession and of the State Fiscal Service, and of the foreign service. Because the foreign service response was like that, we saw, we knew, but we didn't do anything. So if we're talking about securing the state's border security right now, we have to make the Ukrainian border really European. And the powers of the State Border Service must be such that this border is controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u32	Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment, arguing that since the State Border Service of Ukraine has the right under article 30 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to control the order of execution solely of those regulations that are being considered by the Ukrainian State Border Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u33	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Deputy Ostrov? Don't insist. So let's keep looking at the right-hand side. I'm going to read the corrections that are rejected, and you're going to point it out accordingly by raising your hand. So 61st. Don't insist. 64th. Don't insist. And, 69th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've finished the law review. Now I'm giving two minutes for the committee head's closing statement. And I strongly ask, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in two minutes we are moving to the vote. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. And please read the committee’s decision under the transcript for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u34	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, now under the transcript. The first is the technical and legal remedies issued by a member of the committee, the first deputy of the committee by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich on February 8, namely, to introduce such technical and legal remedies to section I, paragraph 1, of the bill. First. Regarding the formulation of the dispositions of part one of article 204-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences, namely: in paragraph 3 of section 5 of the bill of law, the word (in quotes (“or such”) is replaced by the words “or such”. The other one. In paragraph 11 after the word (the quotes open) "recognition" add to the words (in quotes), "the person who did."".. Reference: Such technical legal remedies are brought with the aim of clarifying the inaccuracies noted in the observations of the General Legal Office. The other one. Edited by the People's Deputies Evtushka and Skrum on February 8, this year, which are proposed to supplement section 9, paragraph 9, and draft positions that complement article 222 with a new paragraph with the symbol “1”, with the following meaning: “The authorized officials of the Ukrainian State Border Service may collect fines imposed by them irrespective of the size of the border crossing point at the entry-exit checkpoints and their locations exclusively by means of cash-free payment terminals”. Third. In view of the entry into force on 24 February of this year of the Ukrainian Act "On the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Temporaryly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas" and at the proposals of the Ukrainian State Border Service, the following regulations are also proposed: "To section I, paragraph 1."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u35	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u36	To section I, paragraph 1, of the bill. First: in paragraph six (twice), the second paragraph should be inserted in the following wording: the words "or administrative arrest for a term of up to 15 days" should be deleted. The other one. In paragraph five, the word "or administrative arrest for a term of 10 to 15 days" is deleted. Third. Second item. Paragraph 2 of paragraph 9 after the words “entry into Ukraine” should be supplemented by the words “infringement of the order of entry into or exit from Ukraine” and the figures 204 with badge 4 should be supplemented by 204 with badge 2. Third. Paragraph 13 after the 202-203 digits with badge 1 to add 204 with badge 2. Four. Fill in a new paragraph 9 with a colon: in article 221 the digits 204-2 are deleted. In this context, during the technical legal process, the numbering of items should be changed accordingly. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the proposal to adopt the project as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the rights that I have just announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u37	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that the chairman of the committee has sounded under the transcript of the bill in order to bring the law into line with the Law of Prodeoccupation. And we're going to vote with the paperwork that Cosemyakin sounded under the transcript. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. My colleagues, we have a very busy agenda. We do not have time to call ten times all national deputies and return to voting. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the decision. Let's go. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and certain other laws of Ukraine concerning the security of the border State (No.5442) with rights which have been issued by the head of the Committee, Mr. Andrey Anatoliyovich, under a transcript from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, in a second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[10:46:45.]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed. So, colleagues, let's move on more dynamically now to approving the order of the day of the eighth session. In accordance with part one of article 21 and part one of article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I present a draft agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that we have held a large number of meetings on this subject, and in fact all the factions of factions that have been submitted and the committees that have been recommended have been included in the agenda of the day session. And that's why I'm convinced that as a result of our long-term work, we're going to get a positive vote. In addition, it is very important that we include an anti-corruption court in the agenda of the day. And so I ask everyone to support the adoption of the agenda for the eighth session. Please, colleagues, take up jobs and please support us so that we can get our work started. Colleagues, every voice has weight. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for the whole draft Decree No. 8063 on the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account all the supplements. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice, we vote carefully, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, in favor. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:48:42]] For 211 Apparently, not all colleagues were orientated. You guys don't have to go back. Not all of them were likely oriented. Now I'm going to put again on the vote, and I'm going to urge everyone, colleagues, to include all the suggestions that are available. Included are all the proposals that were made from the factions that were offered. Guys, guys! You don't have to go back. I'll put it to the vote again. I remind you, among those issues is the anti-corruption court, which is our chance to bring it into the order of the day session. I'm asking you, colleagues, to gather and support. I'm re-voting the entire draft regulation 8063. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. I ask everyone to support as we agreed at our meetings. Please all take part in the vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, yes. Please be supportive. We vote yes. Please be supportive. [[10:50:17]] For 218. Colleagues, there are eight votes missing. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again. I'm asking you to show the faction vote. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 91, "National Front" – 68, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 19, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 5. My colleagues, I think we can have a positive vote right now. I beg you, fellows, once more. It's 2,000 900 bills, it's actually all the bills that have been registered, which have been filed by committees that have been submitted by factions. I gave a special commission to consider the proposals of each faction to take the utmost account of the proposals that can be included both in the law and in the Rules. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to get infected, not to leave the room right now, we're counting every vote, and I'm asking you to get ready for the vote. I want to remind you of yesterday's meeting where we agreed and agreed that we are maintaining the order of the day session. I ask you again to prepare for the vote. And I ask you, colleagues, now once again to vote and support everyone. And I'm re-voting the entire draft regulation 8063. And I'm asking you to support everyone, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:52:30.]] For the 220. Six votes missing. I see the MPs are coming in. A few of the national deputies came along. I'm sure we can, I'm now addressing all groups and factions, and the Will of the People, and the Rebirth. We're missing a few votes. I'm asking you to support and help me now, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. So I'd like you to prepare. I see the people's deputies are coming along. Please take up jobs. We were able to take into account all the suggestions that were made. We agreed with all the factions yesterday. And I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. And, colleagues, please support. Please be prepared. And I'm voting on the whole draft of Decree No. 8063. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I ask you to support everyone with discipline. Colleagues, please vote and please support, each voice has a weight. Ruslan! Please take up jobs. Vote! Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Hold on! Vote! Be careful with every voice. Vote. [[10:54:36]] For 221 Five votes. There's no need to go back. I, colleagues, ask again and remind you of our arrangements yesterday. I don't think that adds stability to Parliament. I'm asking you to support me. I'm not supposed to go back to the Rules. I'm going to put it again. And I'm asking you now to re-mobilize and support this vote, which will also ensure the stable work of Parliament, this is the vote that we agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council, before the Conciliation Council. And I'm asking everyone to provide maximum support, I'm calling all factions again, to maximize their mobility and maximum support. And please now, I'm sure we can get a positive vote, I'm putting the draft regulation 8063 to the vote again for adoption as a whole. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to support me as I supported everyone when we formed the agenda. And I'm asking you to vote, and I'm asking you to support me. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:56:15]] For 214 Let me show you through the factions. Colleagues, I'm going to have an offer now or in a minute, or a weekly agenda. I'll be with you in a minute. Please, in a minute. I'll give each faction a minute. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to gather now, unite and support the issue of voting for the agenda of the session, because this is essential not only in terms of the individual bills that we all know about and their enormous weight for the state, but also in order to effectively work for Parliament, which is crucial today. So, honourable colleagues, please go into the session room and support this by voting, this is really important. And our faction also asks everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u39	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the responsible deputies in this session room. We understand why there are no votes for the approval of the agenda. Because some MPs, some factions fear that the bill on the creation of an anti-corruption court will be incorporated into the agenda, and we will begin the procedure for creating this necessary body. Therefore, I appeal to all the deputies to come to the session room and vote. To our coalition colleagues, to all other factions, please let's all form this anti-corruption court together. It will be, whether you want it or not. Finally, the votes will be found, and we will find an adequate legislative procedure for this bill to be adopted in order to take all the proposals of the Venice Commission into account, and such a necessary body has been created. Therefore, honourable colleagues, despite all the political demands, vote and give way to the establishment of an anti-corruption court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u41	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! AlexanderDolzhenkov, faction of the Opposition Block. The opposition bloc does not support any legislative initiatives aimed at deteriorating citizens' well-being aimed at increasing Ukraine's sovereign debt, which is aimed at declining in an economic country. There's a pseudo-patriotic rhetoric in this room, no economy, no social security of socially vulnerable people, it's here, it's here, it's not talking about political challenges, it's talking about the country's welfare. Those bills that you've been pushing forward since the tenth time don't serve the interests of the people or the benefits of Ukraine. What about respect for the law? I would like to warn you, particularly the speaker, not to violate the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, because there may be negative legal consequences as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u43	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please. Then it's easy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u44	The Fatherland faction respects the right of all our colleagues to introduce those bills that you consider necessary. And we also demand that we respect the right of Fatherland to introduce those bills that are registered for yesterday. In fact, this list does not contain three bills dealing with agrarian issues, namely, issues that relate directly to the allocation of landowners, questions about how farmers will function. Therefore, a request to the chairman: All the bills registered yesterday should be in order of the day. Then our faction will vote in favour of this order of the day. And the anticorruption court is voting today, so don't confuse these two ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u45	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team is voting in favour of the agenda, including the inclusion of an anti-corruption court. Unlike many in power, we have nothing to fear, we do not engage in corruption, we fear those who engage in corruption and who are afraid to answer. We are accountable to our citizens, to our consciences, and to our consciences. And that's why the Radical Party team always works in parliament when plenary work days. He always works with voters when it's a voter job. Unlike many of the fellow MPs who have elected, the salary gets paid, the intrusive have and go lobby their own business interests, instead of coming, voting and doing the credit of trust that the people of Ukraine and our voters have given you. We ask the Head of Parliament to publish a list of those who are not in the hall, who wipe their pants and spend their folk money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u47	Thank you. So are there still willing to come out of factions? They're all here. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll put you back in the session. If it doesn't work, we'll vote weekly. But what I want to say to you is -- I've explained it on the Conciliation Council -- there's no such format as to put everyone who's registered into the agenda. In this decree there is a separate appendix where national MPs themselves are asked to withdraw their bills so that they can introduce other bills. In this list there is also a separate appendix where committees are asked to repeal laws so that they can translate and prepare them. And that's why it's a completely balanced document. I ask everyone, colleagues, to take up jobs, I ask you to prepare for the vote and I ask everyone to maintain the agenda for the session so that we can effectively start our work both this week and the following weeks. I ask, colleagues, to prepare for the vote and I put to the vote a whole draft regulation of 8063. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:03:48]] For 205 Colleagues, next I'm setting up a weekly routine. I remind you that in our weekly agenda we have the first block of social protection for military personnel, the block of financial policy, transport (as of today), which is important for the country of ratification. And I put to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 27th and March 2nd. And I'm asking everyone to maintain the weekly agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:04:49]] For 231 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I'm putting the next one to the vote on a single issue that stands in the order of the day. According to the Rules it is verified and it reads as follows: "On the commission of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to prepare draft laws on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court for urgent consideration and to amend the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." By this decision, by this commission, we simultaneously include in the agenda, and at the same time, we give the commission to the committee for immediate consideration. I ask you to vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the bill on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:06:13]] For 235 Decision taken. We've included the issue of an anti-corruption court in the agenda of the day session. Welcome to the hall. And I'm giving you an immediate commission to consider this bill on the Committee of Legal Policy. If the committee can take a look and make a decision on Wednesday, we'll have a chance that we can include it in the agenda on Thursday and take a look at it on Thursday at the first reading. I want a committee of fruitful labor, and I would like to stress once again that we may have a chance that this week, on Thursday, we might be able to consider the Anti-Corruption Court Act in our first reading. And I believe this is one of the most important issues this week, and I think that a positive vote has demonstrated the will and will of the Ukrainian Parliament to fight corruption, until the end of the anti-corruption reform that this Parliament has carried out actively and continues to carry out. And, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda of the day session. I remind you, the first block, an extremely important block, is the issue of the social protection of military personnel. I'm sure these questions can unite our hall and are extremely important for the support of our warlords. And I'm announcing the transition to the first issue of the agenda, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the creation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Veterans - the central executive authority to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of social protection for war veterans (No. 7505). And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:08:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, participants in the hostilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u48	In order to have a strong army, the nation must ensure that every Ukrainian defender is confident that he and his family will have independent social protection. Today, there are about 1.4 million veterans of war in Ukraine. That's almost 3 percent of the population of the state. Of these, about 350,000 are participants in the ATO. Ukraine was not ready for the war in 2014, nor was it ready for its consequences. But we have gained a new modern - day Ukrainian army. And our next task is to build a clear state strategy to overcome the consequences of this war, including to create an effective system of social protection for war veterans. During the eighth term of Parliament’s call, more than 30 laws on social protection of ATO participants and family members were passed. But some of these laws do not work because there are about 20 ministries and departments involved in the social protection of veterans at the same time. This creates a real bureaucratic chaos. As we studied international experience, we found that Ukraine needed to create a separate state body and registered with the committee, members of the committee, Order 7505 on the Establishment of the Supreme Council. on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the creation of the Ministry of Ukraine for Veterans. I ask the entire Ukrainian Parliament, regardless of coalition or opposition, to support and vote in favour of the Ukrainian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u49	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u50	I give the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Radical Party faction will support the bill, an invitation to the government to create a ministry for veterans -- an extremely important issue. Last week, my team and I visited Dnipro, including the Dniprov military hospital. Only last year he was returned to state property, today he needs extensive repairs to provide the necessary rehabilitation, medical, and relief services for our military personnel. During the Russian aggression against our country, the Dniprov military hospital provided nearly 20,000 military personnel with adequate assistance. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff, the doctors of the Dniprov military hospital and all the military hospitals in Ukraine for saving our military personnel, for putting them on their feet, and for treating them. I am specifically addressing the minister of defense, Stephen Timothy Poltorak. Some 128 million dollars are needed to repair the Dniprosian military hospital. Now this is being addressed in the Ministry of Defense. I have a great request to support the initiative and to allocate 128 million dollars from the state budget to repair the Dniprovski Military Hospital. Moreover, it is an extremely important issue — the socialization of military personnel, rehabilitation, and the return of them to peaceful life. Those who protected their lives by spilling blood protected their home country, and they were to govern the new Ukraine. And we demand that the authorities pay the utmost attention to the military, to those who protect our country, to help them return to peaceful life, to be useful, to work, to the issue of social protection -- all of this is a very important task of authority. And we demand the utmost attention of our defenders of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u53	Thank you. From Semenha Roman Sergiyovich's Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, surely honor and respect for the Ukrainian soldier who gave up part of his life, health in the struggle for Ukrainian independence, is a guarantee of the success of Ukrainian statehood, must become a foundation in any social, other policy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, the experience of the Cabinet of Ministers is quite different. By the end of the war, the government, along with an active coalition, had formed the Ministry of Information Policy, which would eventually lose its information struggle with the Russian Federation and turned into the Ministry of Combating and Advocacy with political opponents. The government and the Cabinet of Ministers have already created a Ministry of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas, which is not just helping -- it is in fact denying Russian aggression and Russian occupation. So it's very important that the ministry that is proposing to be created today really makes sense. I want to ask some questions to the government today. What prevented the absence of a ministry, for example, from submitting to the Supreme Council the Ukrainian Military Pensioners Act? For one thing, do people who are at war today not need laws to regulate the pensions of those who are at war? What hindered, is it not, the absence of a ministry, the creation, the housing of people serving today, the provision of rehabilitation, medical care? Because there's a great variety of intentions and actions. Of course, today’s draft decree must be voted on primarily because of respect for Ukrainian soldiers. But I want to go to the veterans of war, to the volunteers: the honourable colleagues, without your active participation, there is a huge risk that the work of such a newly created ministry, if created, can unfortunately turn into another farce and imitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u55	Thank you. From the Royal Natalia Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, about the creation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Veterans. The creation of a separate body that would fully take care of veterans and bear full responsibility for their social protection, we think, should be a structure in which all veterans of Ukraine will be competent. These are veterans of the Great Homeland War, they are veterans of labor, veterans and pensioners of the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies, the MCS veterans. The proposed structure should be a comprehensive solution for all veterans. But we already have the experience of creating new ministries. And to the efficiency of these new ministries, we have a lot of questions. So the Opposition Block requires that we take our comments into account and make appropriate changes. The efficiency of ministries in occupied areas and information policy was also discussed. So that we don't produce new ministries, by now increasing the number of officials and increasing the workload on the budget, but by creating a new structure by reducing the inefficient central authorities of executive power. So, so far, it's like the Ministry of Social Policy is looking out for veterans. Sadly, though, the work is now a failure, and each one of us has many questions. Therefore, we demand that changes be made to this decision and that the matter be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u57	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Rickov. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u58	First of all, it's about a military hospital in Dniper. This money can't be allocated to the Ministry of Defense right now. Because unfortunately, the previous minister of Greece sold it and he was in a position at the Russian bank. And now the courts have passed. And so far, the hospital hasn't been transferred to the Mino Defense Balance. Therefore, money can't be allocated to him by law. That's the first one. And secondly, the Department of Veterans is very much needed in our country, as in the United States. Because our veterans follow the direction of all ministries, they turn everywhere, and they are thrown from one to the other, and they have no one to turn to. That's why the profile department will be doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u59	30 seconds, please. Thank you. So, the closing statement from the People's Front, MaximBurbak. Then we go to the vote. And so I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall, and in two minutes, there will be a vote. Please, from the People's Front, MaximBurbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the clear public position of the People's Front faction is that we are primarily voting and supporting all the bills that relate to improving national security and defence and the social protection of our country's defenders. But what I'd like to say is that after three years working on a profile committee and seeing that the inter-ministerial commission in the ATO area isn't doing well and working ineffectively, it was perfectly logical to invite the government to consider the possibility of creating a ministry for veterans like the U.S. Department of Veterans. I would also like to remind previous speakers that this ministry will embrace the social protection of all war veterans -- World War II, Afghanistan and all others -- in order to give maximum protection, rehabilitation and rehabilitation to our returning boys. So the People's Front faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u61	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. There is general support for this initiative. It's important that we mobilize. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the creation of the Ministry of Ukraine for Veterans – the central executive authority to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of social protection of war veterans (No. 7505) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:21:04]] For 216 I'll put it on return, yes. Colleagues, they weren't there or there. Please take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm going to be the first to go back to voting in 7505. I'd like you to proceed with the procedure and vote first in favour of returning to the hearing. So I would like to vote on the return to consideration. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:21:55]] For 221 Colleagues, we're not going to start the speech. We do. I'm asking you to mobilize the people. I'm asking you to come to the hall. So I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'd like the factions to show you the results of the last vote. So we figured out where we have the resource, where we have the reserve. Please come in, come in, take your jobs. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to go back to voting for the 7505 draft Order on the creation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Veterans. And I ask everyone to be very careful about voting, and to take up jobs. Please vote and please support, colleagues, very carefully, we vote in favour. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:23:42]] For 242 We're back. And now I'm putting the 7505 Project on the ground as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:24:05]] For 241 It's been decided. Decision taken. The next law is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (No. 5512). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:24:50]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timczuk Dmitry Borisovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill, which is suggested by your mind, is very simple in terms of meaning and at the same time aimed at further strengthening the social protection of military personnel. The point is that today's legislative field does not set the time limit for a military officer to be allowed to travel. Appropriately, for example, when a military officer performs an ATO assignment and receives a short term leave of 10 days, he only has to go home and return to his unit from 2 to 4 days, so he's only left to rest for 6 days. We propose that this bill take into account the time it takes on the road so that it does not become part of the holiday period. Since there are some comments to this bill from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, we suggest that it be accepted as a basis, but that we prepare for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u63	Thank you for presenting the bill. And now the co-report invites Mr. Vynnick, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee. Ivan Vinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Status of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is called upon not to take into account the time needed to move from the location of the military to the place of residence within the annual leave period, so that this time is not taken into account in this vacation. It's an extremely simple project, and in fact, maybe someone doesn't seem to need it that much and that's important. But in fact, when our military officers take short-term vacations, let's say that for 7-10 days, these two, three days that they spend on travel, they eventually cut the annual leave that they give to the military. So at the request of the General Staff of the Ministry of Defence, this project was developed by colleagues, it was considered by the committee, it is supported, of course, by both the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, it doesn't need budget expenditure. At the same time, the committee is asking the session room to support it only on a basis, because it is very important to write qualitatively in preparation for the second reading all the terms used in this project so that we do not in any way destroy the structures that are working today. So I ask you to vote on the basis and send it to the commission committee, process it in a reduced procedure for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u65	Thank you for the committee's position. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions to discuss this bill, please. Please sign in. Please, Mrs. Scrum from "Paternity" is being invited to the floor. She'll be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u66	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. My colleagues, in fact, the Fatherland faction is very pleased that we have finally begun to consider issues of national security, the protection of veterans, the protection of military personnel. We have over a year of 29 bills that have supported, worked with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Occupied Territories, the Legal Hundreds, other social organizations of volunteers. Thank God that we are finally entering into their consideration. But it's totally unacceptable and unacceptable that 29 drafts of such an important subject in times of war have been in place for almost a year and haven't been considered in this Supreme Council since the profile committee passed. So I do have a request to make such bills very quickly and to show how much the Council is not saying, but it is concerned about the military and the gunmen. And basically this bill, "Paternity" will vote for it and support it, because there are a lot of references to us, when, for example, a military officer is actually trying to take a vacation under family circumstances or other important reasons, that vacation is given for a maximum of 10 days, usually the commanders give it for three, four days, two of which are spent on the road. And it's clear that it doesn't make any sense for a man to take a vacation like this in less than two days when a military officer can't get off the front line and from the ATO zone to his family, so it really needs to be settled. Personally, I think we need to address all these issues of a technical nature, but very important, in a single legal act. But no doubt we will also support this point of change, and the Fatherland will vote in favour. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u67	Thank you for your position. From the People's Deputy Onufric Block. He also gives the word to Mr. Winniku to speak, to express the position of the faction. Please, get out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u68	In the last three years, the Peter Poroshenko faction has been systematically reforming legislation with fellow Members of Parliament that provides social protection for military personnel. In fact, this morning we started with the creation of the Department of Veterans in the form of a call to the Cabinet of Ministers. We're continuing four bills of social protection for the military. A very important question that I hope we will finally begin to resolve with the government led by VolodymyrGroysman is the issue of pensions, pensions for military pensioners. Indeed, those efforts, as well as attempts to resolve these issues by voting on the relevant legislative acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, do not solve the issue. Social protection is a matter of legislation, it's not a matter of individual decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, at present, with the opportunity, I would like to address Prime Minister Groysman without delay to submit to Parliament an appropriate bill drawn up by the government on the reform of pensions to military pensioners. This is about 600,000 Ukrainian citizens who receive military and special pensions. Indeed, with regard to the reform that began with civilian pensions, military pensioners today are in some discriminatory state, and we are obliged as a parliament to resolve this issue urgently. So I hope that this project will soon be implemented. He has already been discussed on the National Security and Defence Council, discussed on a profile committee. It is time to start discussing it in the walls of the Supreme Council. This is really going to allow at least 2.5-3 times the average pension rate for military pensioners today. We find money in the budget, all people have to be protected. There is certainly a need to pay particular attention to those protecting Ukraine today, their pensions compared to those receiving veterans must be generously higher in relation to all other military pensioners when we make this reform. I urge the government to urgently implement this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u69	Thank you for your position. Please, from "self-help" Taras Shepherd. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u70	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. Our faction is likely to support this bill. And the previous speakers, they made the right point about the issue, because today the fighting is taking place in the east, and the soldiers who live in Western Ukraine, sometimes it takes more than one time to get to their homes. If there are any extraordinary events at home, and a military officer gets this brief leave, he will know in the morning that he is being groomed. Then the procedure is to get from Slovenia, from Constantine, from any other city in Kharkiv, or anywhere at the train station, takes at least half of it. And he usually faces another problem there -- that there are no tickets at the train station to get home. And he often needs to get home with a few connections, and what he's going to spend, in fact, two hours on the way. And this is not just a problem today to resolve this part, but it is a matter of questions and individual issues that would apply to military personnel’s armor on the issue of driving and getting home. But we're proposing that this bill should only be supported in the first reading, because there might be another situation here where one military officer, in this formulation, will make the best use of the time to get on the road, and will return on time to the duty station, and another military officer can, by abuse, travel 5-6 days home and then return to the duty station five or six days later. So this question, it needs to be more or less settled so that the commanders of the unit, by letting a military officer go home, have a guarantee that in time he will return home. And also the question that needs to be settled is actually the same connections so that today boys from Kharkiv, from Dnipra, can travel both to the Carpathian and Chernivka, where trains are now being canceled and there is virtually no way to get home. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u71	Thank you. And the final performance from the Radical Party is Igor Moisiychuk. After this talk, two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, respected defenders of Ukraine! Indeed, an extremely important package of bills is now being considered, which is aimed at strengthening the social protection of Ukrainian soldiers, those who have defended and protected the Ukrainian state. Parliament has just supported a call to the Cabinet of Ministers for the creation of the Ministry of Veterans. Yes, it is really a very useful, good and good thing that exists in many countries of the world, especially in countries that take part in hostilities -- both in the United States and in Israel. At the same time, I would like to warn the initiators of the creation of this ministry against using it for political purposes, for their own purposes, because your job is to serve the saint, namely to provide military personnel with housing, proper medical care, social security. Because some prohindeas are already running through the spheres of Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, and they're saying they're going to lead the Ministry, which will work for one of the candidates for the future presidents of Ukraine, who will use the funds if they want. We warn the initiators to create this bill and to create this ministry from such actions, because you will call a thunderstorm on your own head. And this bill will surely support our faction, like all others, in support of the Ukrainian soldiers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u73	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please prepare. Let me remind you that the committee makes a proposal to vote as a basis, just as a basis, and to whom there will be warnings and amendments, they can be made during the committee's consideration between the first and the second readings. So I ask everyone to maximize their mobility and support the draft law. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. Please vote in first reading 5512 as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:38:02]] For 236 Decision taken. The law is adopted as a basis. The next in line is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the conduct of military service in order to ensure the full functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (5640). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:38:45]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP, Ivan Yuliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the issue that this bill will solve, if we accept it, is that according to official statistics submitted to the Committee on Safety and Defence, some 10,000 military personnel have voluntarily left the military forces without being placed in the military service. The law defines the limit of military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are allowed by law to have — that is, 250,000. Under the condition that 10,000 people are officially members of the military but are de facto deserters. In fact, I don't speak de jure, because desertion has to be established by court, but they're not there for good reason. I'm not talking about people who are illegally held captive or missing, I'm talking about people who are clearly known to command parts, that they have left parts on their own and that they have been addressed to the military prosecutor's office for their return, search and so on. The problem is that until a legal fact is established that a person is a deserter, he cannot be released from the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thus, we have a constant complication of the Armed Forces of at least ten thousand people. In this connection, the bill proposes that a military officer be released from military service in the absence of him for more than two months at the location and location of his military unit. We tried to consider such a bill in this session hall, but he did not find support. When we did an alternative, which was actually registered under 5640, we took into account a large number of observations by scientific and scientific management. And in this case, I would like to go to the session room and vote this project exclusively as a basis and direct this discussion to the committee. Because the question is delicate in certain categories and requires a more meaningful and balanced discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u75	Thank you. Mr. John, will you also report from the committee? Have you done a report? Well, please report back to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u76	Actually, it's going to be a very simple report from the committee. I'm asking you to support this bill on a basis, guide it to the committee, and we're on the committee to try to find a balanced solution to this problem in a way that protects, on the one hand, the rights of a citizen of a military officer or a person who is engaged in military service on a contract. And to settle the issue, the interest of the state, to have a complete set of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of 250,000 people. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u77	Thank you. Please record two in, two in, and no. It's from the Radical Party. Linko is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u78	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Today, very important issues are addressed in Parliament, issues of military service. It's very right that we raise these questions. Because we need to strengthen our army, take constant care of it, and care for our military personnel. The issue of the responsibilities of the military and the deployment of our Armed Forces is very important. That's why the Radical Party supports this bill. We believe that it needs to be pushed as quickly as possible and accepted as a whole through the committee. But in a number of these bills that deal with military issues today, we don't see a solution to the very important problem -- the problem of the pension of military personnel. The Radical Party requires the government to submit a bill to Parliament as soon as possible in order to count the pensions of military personnel. Because this injustice, which has been established and not resolved in the context of the resolution of pension reform, is an absolutely egregious injustice. And those military officers who are currently serving in the military need to know that when they retire, they will have a just pension. And if today they see how unjust the state is to those military personnel who have served long ago, even in Soviet times, who are now serving and today do not receive a decent pension, they will certainly not motivate them to go and encamp our Armed Forces, to go and protect our country. So we suggest that these are the days. Military days, let's say, in Parliament they were more frequent and that the issue of our army, the reinforcement of the army, the strengthening of the social protection of military personnel, veterans were carried out as often as possible and most importantly so that they were not just declarants, but that they had a specific objective, that was a reference to the army, and that was to strengthen the social condition of our military personnel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u79	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna. A shepherd. Passes the word to the Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u80	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, in the first version, when the bill was introduced into the hall, he actually correctly pointed out the problem that there are enough soldiers, sergeants, officers who in one way or another are evading from the service, well, we can honestly call them deserters today. While some have protected the country, others have found a way to do so. at this time to avoid, to go out, perhaps to earn money, or to hide from the service at all. But there was a second problem in this bill that some of those military personnel that we were already willing to call deserters might not be, they might be in captivity. We remember the history of a literally two - year - old when several soldiers were found under Kiev under other cities, who were killed on the way home. It is not the fact that there are no other military personnel who are, unfortunately, no longer alive, but cannot be called deserters in any way. There are other members of the military who today may be counted as missing persons who have been missing during the course of the military service. But we can as a result, when we get a bill like this in the first version of which it was introduced, get a problem when our families have to then in the courts restore justice and the right to keep the boys from being called heroes. Thank God, the authors have heard this problem. This position. And during the drafting of the bill for second reading, it was actually the insistence of the Self-Help faction that if other circumstances were to be imposed that denied this desertion and, on the contrary, restored justice for this military officer, the commander who was or was in the military had the right to restore it completely, and so that there was no mistrust in the courts. So we are ready to support him in the first reading and in the committee to work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u81	Thank you. The closing act is now in progress. It's not a lock. Okay. There'll be two more performances. So in four minutes, the vote will take place. From Peter Dustock's Block, Keith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, Strysk constituency. I am so happy that we have issues that concern each military officer and our veteran. It is important to me that we remember people who protect our Fatherland. But equally important is the fact that we have completely forgotten about the retired soldiers who also fought and also protected the country, who also deserve attention and respect. I have 1,700 retired soldiers in the district, who are virtually understaffed and excluded from the country’s pension reform. I want to say that we are obliged as the Supreme Council to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to return to Decree 704, which has not been adopted, but has been rejected, and in fact to revert to the state of pensions until the moment that they were. There are a lot of people here saying that we don't have a reserve, that we don't have money, and we have to get out of what we have. I want to give you a little bit of examples for everyone that we have in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and what additions we have in the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. For example. Lieutenant of the Armed Forces of Ukraine: Award for title is 110 bracelets. The lieutenant of the Attorney General's Office or the prosecutor's office is 1,400 dollars. Senior Lieutenant, 115, 1600. Captain 120, 1800. Colonel - 135 (Ukrainian Armed Forces). The D.A.'s office is $2,000.400. People are good when we turn our faces to the military and stop making white and black. I demand that the military and their pensions be worthy and that we stop dealing with them with allowances and give them a salary that is protected by the laws of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u83	And now it's a closing act from the Fatherland of Helen Scrum. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please, from Skrum's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u84	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, you know, it's really a bill that talks about a very painful question, even two painful questions. And the first is the question of, of course, the need to recompile the Armed Forces of Ukraine and to quickly replace military positions through those who have left parts of it on their own. And the second question is, why do these people leave parts, and how do we help us both in the social protection of military personnel, and in the psychological rehabilitation of military personnel, and how do we fight corruption in the Armed Forces and in the army for which this is also happening? And here, colleagues, this might help us solve the symptoms of the disease, but it doesn't solve the disease itself. Today, according to the General Staff of Ukraine, there are 8 000,554 military personnel in the Armed Forces of Ukraine who have voluntarily left the military forces. Of these, 183 are officers. And here, I'm sorry, but the bureaucratic chaos that is now in Cabmine on the issue of military personnel is not helping. Corruption in the Armed Forces does not help. The smuggling that happens there. You know there's been an increase in numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u85	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u86	You know there's been an increase in the number of military suicides. There is no program of psychological rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation worthy. And we have to talk about all of these problems, not just how we can quickly make up the Armed Forces of Ukraine. "Paternality," of course, will vote in the first reading, but we have to look at the problem globally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u87	Thank you. Thus, the discussion is concluded. We are moving on to making a decision. My colleagues, I want to remind you, on the basis of this bill is recommended. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws (to improve military service matters) to ensure the full functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (No. 5640). Please support, please vote for the basis, vote for the vote. [[11:51:38]] For 225 I see we're not there yet. We'll be right back. I'm voting on the motion to return to draft Law 5640, please vote, please support the return and please take part in the vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:52:12]] For 241 We're back. And I'm putting the draft of Law 5640 to the ground. Please vote carefully, please support me as a basis. [[11:52:39]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the next issue of the agenda, I want to inform you that I have received a statement from two factions: "The People's Front" and "Peter Prashenko's Block." And they're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And who will have the performance? Heroceno. Please have a word, three minutes. Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u88	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Just before the Supreme Council, Saakashvili's "The Movement of New Forces" was staged. In front of the Supreme Council’s house, tires were thrown out, and their arsonists tried. When police officers refused to do so, stones flew through them. Two police officers were wounded 15 minutes ago, and one had a key broken. At this time, the nine individuals who made the commission were not exclusively detained for the money of the Russians and brought to the authorities of the interior. I'm talking to all of you, to the Ukrainian people. Everyone can meet peacefully under the Constitution, take care of the Supreme Council, any body of the Supreme Council. But if you're doing people's orders for money, including not just what the Russian Federation says, it's a crime, and it's a crime to be held accountable for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u89	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko. Please, Irina Heratchenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, there is a tragic tablet on the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that lists three names of all young boys. Four. I'm sorry, four names, I made a mistake. Four names of quite young boys who died on August 31st under the Supreme Council. They were the guards of the National Guard, they were our sons. I have the next suggestion, we just don't have the right to watch with you right now how some "departures," I don't know who they belong to, what forces they are, but it's the task of the law enforcement agencies now to figure out who wounded the two Nazis. I say, I think that we will all be together here, as members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the law enforcement agencies to investigate who led to the injury of the Guards. Another story. As the Samaritans say, among those who threw stones at them today were once again the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sorry to throw stones at the Nazis who returned yesterday from the second line of the front, well, it's just a crime! You know who wants to fight can fight. Who wants to fight? [[B in m in s a l in]] I once named the names that threw grenades, and they told me they didn't bring grenades. Please let the regulatory committee know once and for all who brought the smoke checkers, who set them on fire in the toilet, who threw them. And our last offer, my offer. In this room, there are deputies who set up tents, and in this room there are leaders of factions who supported this mess. Now, let's go out to that tent town where there are tents where even the snow is not trampled on, and ask them to turn. This will be responsible, it will be fair in front of the Chinese, in front of the Nazis. You know, embassies address us as deputies and tell us that in no country of the world would be so impossible to block Parliament and the central streets of the city for six months. And by the way, there's no MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u92	No one who set up these tents was there for the night. I'm ready to go with you and ask these tents to turn around and stop this mess. It was a courage to set up - let's have the courage to turn it around! [[Applause]] Dear Nazis, I'm sorry! Forgive these uncles who sit here and provoke you to be wounded today in the peaceful city of Kiev. Let's stop this mess!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u93	Thank you. I want to say my position. I find it unacceptable to attack the National Guards. Here one day in this room was a great pride when we created and founded the National Guard of Ukraine, who first went to the front of defending the Ukrainian state. The first battalion of the National Guard, whose fighters are in and out of this room, came under Slaviansk first to protect Ukraine from the Russian aggressor. And I find these provocations against the National Guard unacceptable, unacceptable, against the National Guard of Ukraine. I'm sure the law enforcement authorities will give this an adequate assessment, and we should give our political assessment. Thank you. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (let's vote in favour of the short procedure -- and we'll take a break, we'll start -- and we'll call it a break) to improve the individual issues of the conduct of the citizens of the military service (6052). Come on, colleagues, let's vote in favour of the cut-off procedure, and then I'll call it a day. So please support the review of the reduced procedure 6052. Please be supportive. It's a short-term procedure. [[11:58:51]] For-163 I would like to point out that we voted in favour of a reduced procedure. But, Mr. John, we do not have time to begin. I'm calling it a half-hour break. And in 30 minutes, please go to the rostrum, and we will continue to consider this question. According to the Rules, I'll call it a 30-minute break, until 12:30. At 12:30, everyone please come to the conference room to continue the social protection unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u94	Colleagues, break time is over. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. I would like to remind you that before the announcement of the break, we voted in favour of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to improve the individual issues of the conduct of the citizens of the military service) to consider it as a reduced procedure. And we are continuing to consider this issue now, and I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Yuliyovich. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u95	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill 6052 is called upon to solve the problem of the very many highly motivated citizens of Ukraine returning from the front today, our soldiers who, in light of the findings of the military and medical commissions, are no longer able to continue serving in the army. So built - up legislation that only fully physically healthy people can serve in the Ukrainian army. At the same time, as a result of injuries, injuries, injuries, and so forth, people may receive partial incapacity, while such men as these may be requested by the Ukrainian Armed Forces in other specialties, including the military commissioners, to work at headquarters, to work at the Ministry of Defence, as a military officer. At the same time, the law in force in connection with certain health problems they have received as a result of their ministry does not allow them to go through this service. So the main objective of this project is to regulate the individual's ability if he is willing to continue to serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine under contracts for specific specialties defined by the General Staff of the Ministry of Defence, to continue, regardless of the findings of the military-medical commissions that are currently commissioning such a person into reserve. That's why we're proposing to accept this project in the first reading -- this is already a report from the committee -- to take it as a basis, to work it out on a committee, because there are derivative projects submitted by other fellow MPs. They have some interesting suggestions that we should also go to the second reading to implement in this project, which we propose to take as a basis. And so again we're going to increase the motivation to go through the service and maybe at least give a partial answer to what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u96	Please add a minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u97	And we'll give at least a partial answer to what to do to people who have returned from military service and feel a little uncomfortable in essentially civilian occupations and want to return to the service. At the same time, there are negative conclusions from the military and medical commissions. We will resolve some of the tensions that exist today in the rehabilitation of these individuals. You don't have to rehabilitate yourself, you can rehabilitate yourself through military service if you want to. This is freedom of choice, which is the basic principle of the rights of a citizen, a civil servant. So let's take this legislation. I suggest we take it as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u98	Thank you. So Mr. John made a report both as the author of the bill and as the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u99	Can I have another trailer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u100	Please, one more addition. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u101	My colleagues from another faction, when we were preparing this project, here I want to mention, firstly, the representation and the Fatherland is Alona's Skrum, and the People's Front is Gus, Timchuk, Rybchin's colleague joined. We may be somewhat imperfect, at least in the opinion of the scientific and scientific administration, we put out a section of twenty-six, which is the basis for the exemption from military service. In particular, it should be noted that in general, article 26 on the grounds for exemption from the Military Service Act on Military Duty and Military Service is being seriously overloaded for various reasons. So the science-expert management is proposing to put it in a new edition completely. In fact, the committee suggests that the text of this article be clarified when voting on the bill as a basis and to refer it to the committee for preparation for the second reading. And in this context, I would like to ask the chairman to pass on the word, perhaps during the statement by the representative of Self-Help, Taras Shepherd, who will give a more detailed presentation of this proposal, which is worth taking into account now in the transcript of the decision that we hope to take into account by voting on this draft as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u102	Thank you. During the factions you will be able to hear and express your offer under the transcript. I'm asking you to make a record: two in, two in, yes in, please. From Fatherland, Helen Scrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u103	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, really, it's a fairly simple bill, but it's a very important question. It allows those military personnel who are recognized by the decisions of the Military Medical Commission as unfit by health to continue to serve only by their consent. That's what this is about. But sometimes, for example, even when the military-medical commission says they're unfit, it might be the injury, injury or amputation of a single brain, for example, yes, and a person is no longer fit for health before the service is performed, but a person still wants to continue serving on a contract. It does not have to be an advanced one, and it does not have to be. In practice, this possibility is, but it's very difficult bureaucratic. We need the Minister's approval, the commander's approval. You have to make a whole bunch of bureaucratic papers, well, which don't simplify the procedure at all, of course. That's why this bill was born, which was worked together on the committee, and together with the various factions, the deputies joined. A "legal hundred" and a volunteer organization were looking at these things and doing what was supposed to be done. Well, of course, "Fatherland" will support this bill. If there are any adjustments to our second reading, we too are willing to support it. But if Taras Shepherd is able to deliver a bill that will unite the hall, I would like to vote on the bill as a whole. It's quite simple and very necessary for our boys. And I'm also going to point out the important thing is that it's not about mental, sensory, psychological and other diseases that are defined by the Mini-Defense when a person can really be unacceptable to military service and can pose threats and risks to his colleagues. This is true of some small obstacles that today prevent boys from engaging in military service, even when they ask for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Olena, if you want to help, help mobilize deputies into the hall to collect the votes needed. Call back and tell them that the vote will take place literally in five minutes. Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u105	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that the problem is extremely relevant today, and it needs to be taken into account and restored. Well, it's even an element of justice when boys want to continue in the service, to continue in the service, but unfortunately, they already have certain limitations as a result of the injuries they have suffered in the course of their combat assignments. Questions could evidently be accepted both in the first reading and immediately in general. The only point that the secretary of our committee has actually sounded is that of the 26th article. Considering that this article regulates the issue of the release of military personnel from military service, we have made several amendments and amendments to this article alone in our vocation. This led to a different reading of this article. Various court decisions are made, as this is true of the release of military personnel who continued their service during a special period. And actually, science and expertise, it suggests that we put this whole article in a new edition. So there's a proposal that we would consult with the Chief Legal Authority to add paragraph 2 to the regulation, and so on, the 2nd would do the 3rd. And in two paragraphs, we have entrusted the National Security and Defence Committee, and we are immediately addressing the representatives of the Ministry of the General Staff, so that we can work together quickly on a new edition of the 26th article, and in this bill, in order not to delay the future, we will take into account a completely new version of this article, and in this option we will adopt this bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u106	Thank you. But in order for us to have a proper legislative action, after a discussion, I will give the floor to the committee's secretary so that the transcript will be marked with this amendment, so that we, by voting, will be very correct and clearly articulated. Please, Mr. John, prepare. Now, from the Radical Party, there's going to be a performance, and then I'll give you a word for the closing statement, where you can make these proposals. From the Radical Party, Andry Lozový. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u107	Andrew Lozový. Oleg Láska's Radical Party supports this bill because it consistently supports all legislative initiatives that can help our fighters. There is a sacred war for Ukrainian independence. And supporting those who risk their lives and health and freedom on the front is the sacred duty of every Ukrainian patriot. And there's a lot of people in this room who like to talk about their patriotism, and when it comes to doing it, they don't vote for the bills that are necessary for the front. I'd like to pay attention to my colleagues and call on the government as a whole, the government, the local councils to increase housing funding for the fighters. To me, I've been working, and I've been working, and I've been working, and I've been working, and I've been working, and I've been working on a non-plenary week, and I've been in the Plains, and I've been working in Ternopolishka, and in Lviv, and in Volin, and I've been approached by a fighter from Idar, who himself from Lugansk, who among those Lugansk patriots who first took up arms, protecting our Ukrainian Luhansk from the Moscow invaders, is today, like 2 million people, who are now a displaced and therefore a veteran of the front. He received housing, thanks to God. But he comes to the local council asking him to help with the repairs, because there are bare walls, and the local council says, "We don't have the money for it." For what, then, is the money available if it is not for the saints themselves, for those who protect us? Moreover, Parliament's efforts in the country have been decentralized. I wanted to inform Ukrainian citizens that in local budgets, mostly now all budgets are surplus, they have terrible money left over from the village council to the city council of the great city. What happens in part at all levels? A city or a village head arranges with a bank, puts these funds on deposit for one percent of the fact that the other receives a discount. We demand that these funds go to the home for the fighters, the hospital, the school, because Otto Bismarck wrote that the enemy goes where the teacher and the priest loses, on new roads, on better living conditions for the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u108	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. In two minutes, the vote will take place. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the voting room. I now invite you to the rostrum of Vinick John Julius. And I'm asking you to make it very clear how the amendment is going to sound. And if there's room will, we'll vote in favour of the bill as a whole. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u109	At the suggestion of colleagues from Self-Help, I propose that I include in the text a decree on the adoption of the bill in the first reading of paragraph 2, according to paragraph 2, consider paragraph 2 to be the third. About the fact that article 26 of the Ukrainian Military Service and Military Obligation Act on the issue of exemption from military service is edited so that it does not conflict with the standards set out in various parts of this article, and taking into account the novelties proposed by this bill, taking into account the observations of scientific and scientific management. Put it in a new lineup, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u110	Thank you. The position fits. Yeah? And I emphasize, I'm going to put to the vote with the amendment that John Winnick made under the transcript, and I'm going to base it on the vote. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs. Prepare to make a decision. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of individual issues of civil service (No. 6052), as amended by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vinnik Juriovich, as a basis only. Please vote. I'll wait, wait 30 seconds, come in. Please vote, please support. Vote, vote, please support. [[12:51:29]] For 216 Please, colleagues, take your jobs, come into the hall. I warn you a few times when there will be a vote, it just needs more attention and respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please come into the hall, I'll put the first vote back. Please take up your jobs, come into the hall. I propose to go back to voting for bill 6052 and ask everyone to vote carefully. Please support the offer to return, please vote, please support. [[12:52:37]] For 228 We're back. And I'm voting on the draft Law 6052 with the rights that John Winnick made under the transcript. Colleagues, carefully, each vote as a basis, we vote. Please support the base, we vote. [[12:53:10]] For 233 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Promotion of Social Protection for Soldiers. These are bills 6268, 6268-1 and 2. And I'd like you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please support. [[12:53:48]] For 180. Decision taken. And I'm going to call all the drafters first, and then there's going to be a report from the committee. Thus, the report is invited by the Ukrainian national deputy Skrum Helen Ivanovna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u111	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. You know, more than a year ago, I met Mrs. Tamara, who had a husband in 2016 to serve at the ATO. Regrettably, he was severely frozen in the trench, became ill, and was treated for several months, unable to heal, and in May 2016, he was released directly from his state of health because he was no longer fit for military service. He was released for treatment, Mrs. Tamara took him away, and a few months later, volunteers all over Ukraine were raising money for his treatment. And unfortunately, he died. After that, since he died and died formally after his release from military service, Mrs. Tamara and her three children received no cash and had no formal right to receive even that one - time financial assistance for the death of a military officer. And, of course, this situation is completely disgraceful to our country. There have been more than a thousand families around the country, such as Mrs. Tamar and Mr. Michael. When brothers, husbands, parents go to the ATO area, they get hurt, they get sick, they get pneumonia, they get hurt, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick, they get sick because they're not fit for treatment, they don't help. And after they die, their family receives no money. I'm sorry, but I'm very ashamed that this bill is in Parliament for 11 months, and we're only looking at it today. I am very ashamed that Mrs. Tamara has personally told me that the worst part is that we feel no longer necessary in this state. When my husband, Mr. Michael, served, we were called heroes, we were visited, we were cared for, and when he died, I stayed with three children and with debts for unpaid treatment that I could not afford. This bill, colleagues, has to be accepted. There are alternatives to it, which is the only difference -- the term after which a person died after being released after military service: it could be three months, it could be a year, it could be 18 months, as my colleague Mr. Lucenko put it. Fatherland is going to vote in favour of all these bills, because we have to give back a little dignity at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u112	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u113	We must finally return some dignity to this Parliament and repay these debts to the people to whom we now owe these debts. We owe Mr. Tamara’s husband at least minimal financial assistance. And remember, fellow heroes don't die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u114	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tetjana Čornovol, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u115	I thank the author team very much for this very needed bill, because unfortunately, the tragic cases Mrs. Skrum described have indeed taken place. And very often, these payments had to be regulated manually. And it is our duty to pass the law and to have these cases regulated by law. However, I was forced to make an alternative bill for one very important reason. I understand that for good reasons, but the bill that Mrs. Scrum presented, I found myself, I would say, a terrible norm. Since the bill is intended not to pay the families of the dead on the front, this applies to a complete list if the deceased has breached security conditions. Sadly, this rule cannot exist in the law for a number of reasons. First. Regrettably, I do not reject abuse when various villains blackmail families so that all documents are properly formed. The other one. We cannot raise discipline and punish the children of the dead. So this is actually a very important nuance, so I'm very grateful to the whole group of the first bill, but I would like to support the alternative in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. Now for the alternative. The author of the alternative bill 6268-2, Igor Lucenko, is invited to present his bill. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, my bill is in many ways similar to the two previous ones that have just reported. Two years ago, my colleague, Alona Skrum, promised a widow of one of our fallen soldiers that our legislation would actually bring such a standard. And we are doing everything we can to make this promise really come true. And she will, I'm sure, be executed today, I believe. The only thing that's really going on is that when you count the possibilities for the state to compensate those dead soldiers who have suffered a disease or injury, or the injuries that have been inflicted upon them during the hostilities, they died after being released from the ranks of the Armed Forces. You know, we've been trying to study American practice, and there's actually more time periods, and I'm offering shorts a year and a year and a year and a year and so on. The thing is, there are five years in America, but there is an effective judicial system. There's no such government racket, there's no such bureaucracy, there's another attitude from the state to the military. So I think in our situation, it's better that, as some guarantees are said to be extra, give the maximum deadline to have at least this negative interaction with the state structures, that all payments that are in those tragic cases to be made as quickly and efficiently as possible. Please support any of these bills in our room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the position of the committee, which will be expressed by the Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, the Committee of Profiles, John Winnick. And this is going to be the position on the three alternative bills, then the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! You know, I'm not going to repeat myself on motivation why it's necessary to implement it in legislation, I think it's obvious and understandable. The discussion is based solely on individual conditions and regulations, resulting in additional social security for the families of the deceased, whose foster parents died as a result of an antiterrorist operation or perhaps in national security measures as a result of injuries, injuries, or injuries, and died some time after possible complications or other events occurred in connection with such injuries. Therefore, the committee would like to point out that not only does the discussion have to be in the context of three months, a year or a year or a year and a year or a year and a year and a year and a half, but it may be necessary, apart from the terms, to establish the possibility of an institution or body, whether it is a court or a medical and military commission, to establish a causal link between the occurrence of the death of a person involved in military activities and the cause of death and death. Therefore, in connection with this, the committee proposes to adopt the draft as a basis, to send it to the Committee for second reading in order to hold discussions on a committee basis, not only in part, but perhaps even in the setting up of a causal link, so that the deadlines work, for example, the year is clear. But if death occurs later, it is possible for the family, at least after the proper procedure, to establish an appropriate causal link, the fact that death was caused by the injury suffered by the individual to receive full protection. In this regard, the committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u120	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u121	In this regard, the committee proposes to adopt Project 6268-1 as a basis and to develop it for second reading with the suggestions I have just made. All deputies are invited to join through the preparation of the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, as you have heard, the committee is proposing to adopt Bill 6268-1 as a basis. But of course, we're going to put all the bills in order of their coming, but now we have to discuss them. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko will be speaking. Passes the word to Ms.Korolewski, who will speak from the rostrum. Please, Mrs. Natal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the question of the need to increase the social protection of military personnel, as well as those who have already owed their debt to their homeland, is undeniable. But now I want to draw attention to the situation in which our citizens have become involved in fighting in the East. And this is about the peaceful inhabitants who live on the line of separation, who were also forced to leave their homes. And we're talking to the speaker, Mrs. Irina about planning issues, and we're also going to take a separate look at the social protection issues of civilians: children, people who have become, unfortunately, disabled today, with limited capacity to address this issue in a comprehensive manner. Because I want to draw attention to the fact that over a year in Parliament there are laws on the status and social protection of civilians who have suffered as a result of fighting in the East and supported by professional committees. Unfortunately, though, they are not considered in the hall. We also have complex questions about the protection of children who have suffered as a result of fighting. And unfortunately, today neither the Ministry of Social Policy nor the Parliament are resolving this issue. And we also encourage you to address in a comprehensive manner the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, namely the renewal of social benefits for our citizens living in temporarily uncontrollable territories, and the development and adoption of a comprehensive programme of support for displaced persons. We very much hope that the issues of people who have suffered from war now will be dealt with in a comprehensive manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u125	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues! Indeed, this bill corrects social injustice, which today prevents families who have died as a result of injury, injury or disability during service at the ATO, from receiving adequate social assistance, since according to today's law, the family receives only cash assistance in case of the death of a military officer. Today, cash relief amounts to 500 living quarters, and in 2018, this amount is substantial enough for such families and amounts to 850,000 dollars. However, if a wartime participant dies after being released from service as a result of an injury, a disease associated with the performance of his duties and no longer has the status of military service, unfortunately such assistance is not available today. At the same time, when a family is left without a father and a caregiver who dies from a disease in three years, more than three years of war are very many. For example, the commission, the corresponding military-medical commission of the Ministry of Defence issued about 10,000 decrees during this period linking injury, injury, disability or other diseases with the protection of the motherland from the aggressor. However, the existence of such a document does not give us the right to receive such assistance. So I think we should support it on the first reading. Question of the expiration date. I think I'm the subject of a professional discussion in preparation for the second reading. Maybe it should be taken off at all. And I would also like to support previous speakers that the risks that this concept poses, namely that there should not be an official standing between the right to such assistance and the right to receive such assistance by disposing of the official process, will allow us to avoid potential abuses in order for those who really deserve it to receive such assistance. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u126	Thank you for your position. Please, from Fatherland, Helen Scrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u127	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I have the honour of summarizing our discussion as a co-author of one of the bills and as a representative of the Fatherland faction. Indeed, one of the discussion rules that the committee sounded like is paragraph 7 of the first piece of the bill that I submitted on the ground that there was a reason for refusing to grant one-time financial assistance if there was a lack of compliance with security requirements. And here I am, really, trusting the experience of professionals who work at the National Security and Defence Committee, who have themselves been through most military service, I trust them that such security requirements can be a basis for abuse and simply a basis for corruption when they determine on their own whether security requirements have been met or not. That's why I'd like to publicly withdraw paragraph 7 of the first piece of my law, which is about security requirements. I think that's the right thing to do. And I think that then, of course, it has to be controlled by the regulations, and how this money will be paid, and what the reasons will be, and how they will establish the causal link that Mr. John Wynnick was talking about, that the military officer died because of the injury or because of the disease that he got in the ATO zone. It's actually a normal international experience. If we look at Israel’s experience or the U.S. military force, there are not even often any terms during which this aid is paid to a person. That is, even if a military officer was released from the Armed Forces and died a few years later, not three months or six months later, or even 15 months later, but a few years later, because of the injury or illness he suffered as a result of military service in his country, his family, of course, should receive at least a small compensation that, if he does not return the hero, at least shows that the state cares for its heroes. And we as a nation must and will take care of our heroes. And I hope we'll do it much better for them to feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Radical Party, factions, more loyally, Igor Mosiyczuk from the rostrum. Please. Colleagues, and we're literally going to have a vote in two minutes, and I'm asking you to come back to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u129	The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Dear Ukrainian people! In fact, these bills regulate the most difficult situation that can arise when the victim of the injuries is killed. In fact, it's so painful to think of as family, there and close friends of our warriors, that, without exaggeration, it's probably a dupe bill. And when you look at it, you have to take other aspects into account, namely, that the definition of hostilities takes place only eastward, and people who have been injured or even killed in peaceful territories, but as a result of terrorist actions on the part of the enemy. It is also a huge issue that needs to be addressed. And one more thing. Of course, it is necessary to support the displaced, and of course it is necessary to support people who, as a result of Russian aggression, are on the line of separation. But at the same time, it's very wild to look when crocodile tears behind these people from this rostrum are pouring out people who have brought an aggressor here, who have encouraged an aggressor here, who have contributed to Russian aggression, who have been the refugee of the one who fled to Rostov, supported here with their hands and feet, and now they come out and shed crocodile tears in relation to the settlers and the peaceful inhabitants of the gray zone. Of course, these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u130	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u131	At the same time, we must keep in mind the inevitability of punishing those who brought war on our Ukrainian land, those who contributed to the tyrannical regime of Yanukovic, and those who joined him in calling on Russian aggressors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u132	Thank you, dear colleagues. The talk was over. Let's get everyone to the session room. I also want to make a brief announcement so far that on the third floor in the towers for the initiative of our colleague MEP Evlakh's opening exhibition "Corukiv's Tragedy". These are unknown facts of the Ukrainian history of World War II. And we invite everyone at the break to come and visit this exhibition that our colleague organized and initiated. Colleagues, please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u133	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is over. Everyone please take up their jobs, please come into the hall. Thank you. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase the social protection of military personnel, and I'm putting 6268-1 on the basis of the committee's proposal. Colleagues, please prepare to make your decision. Please enter the hall and support 6268-1 on a base. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:15:13]] For 251 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the development of personal affairs by a disabled person (No. 5518). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, please support. We still have a number of important laws to consider by lunchtime. Please be supportive. [[13:15:56]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Please welcome to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Allow me to present to you the Bill 5518 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the development of personal affairs by a person with disabilities who has been injured, injured or disabled during a direct involvement in an anti-terror operation. During the ATO, more than 7,000 of our military personnel were injured. It's for the fighters who got disabled in the ATO and the draft bill because they need all the support from the state, and the least we can do for them is help them adapt to new living conditions. The standards of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine are provided to entrepreneurs and organizations, public organizations of persons with disabilities with State aid in the form of tax benefits and the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities a return and irreversible financial assistance. However, the individual entrepreneurs with disabilities are deprived of such support. At the same time, there is an urgent need to establish such a possibility at the legislative level. The point of the proposed changes is that the fund’s irreparable financial assistance will also be able to account for FOP, disabled people who have already started their own business and who need to be restructured. The result of approval should be the financial support of such ones. I also want to point out that the Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of State Policy on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine has become effective over the temporarily occupied territories in Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u135	Please. Let me add a minute and you'll be there when you get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u136	Thank you. There is therefore a need for further changes in the text of the bill following the words "physical entrepreneurs" in the following wording: "who became persons with disabilities as a result of injury, injury, disability or disease resulting from a direct involvement in an anti-terrorist operation, ensuring that they are carried out directly in the areas of the anti-terrorist operation during the period of its conduct, during direct participation in national security and defence measures, the interception and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, while being directly involved in the areas and during the period of the measures taken." Please allow the apparatus to do the necessary technical, legal work. I look forward to your support and I would like to vote on this bill with this right as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u137	Thank you. Alexander Trelyakov, head of the Committee on Veterans, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! Today, some 6,000 ATO participants have been disabled as a result of the war. Employment issues are extremely relevant for all categories of citizens. But for ATO participants, including disability, employment is also seen as a form of rehabilitation. I am confident that the creation of an effective system of State guarantees for ATO participants should be an honest matter for both the State and each of us. The committee therefore supports the action of Bill 5518 aimed at creating conditions for disabled ATO participants. for the employment of ATO participants with disabilities. To this end, it is proposed that such persons receive unrefundable, one-off financial assistance to develop their own business on the basis of the amount of administrative financial sanctions that have been made available to the special State budget and are used by the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities. The committee's decision is to adopt a bill as a basis, but it may be accepted as a law in general, taking into account the technical legal rights that have been declared. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a very big request for you. There's a very high level of concentration in the room right now. The less we discuss, the more laws we adopt, because there is actually total support for the hall. So there's a request to the faction to at least take time to discuss, to delay. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. And please, very briefly. Thank you for understanding. So, from the Vadatoursky and the Lazko Radical Party. Let's define the entire list: The Lighter, from Radical, Semimenach, from Self-Help. Two speeches, and we move on to the vote. So, two performances, colleagues. In four minutes, we'll move on to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, then Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u140	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team supports a bill that allows participants in the ATO and the disabled to receive state aid to initiate their case. But at the same time, in order to adopt the law as a whole, we propose to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to provide that those officials who abuse the cost of the disabled, steal them, cut off their arms and legs, for theft, for abuse. Because we have a lot of facts, and my colleague, Andrew Lozový, has already talked about a participant in the liberation war from the Plain, who is denied the necessary help to repair the housing, motivated that there is no money, and at the same time, they have money for themselves and, with good intentions, they steal billions of dollars. Thus, those who are disabled, veterans, free-at-war robbers, immediately resort to radical measures, as in Saudi Arabia: they cut off the thief's hands -- and everything, and there's no crime. We have to do the same. How long can these abuses be tolerated? Billions on the roads are stolen, at home, at the security of the country, on rations, on everything else, and they are paid by the defenders of the country and Ukrainian citizens for their health. Thus, the fiercest struggle against these pests and enemies of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u141	Thank you. Final speech, Roman Semenha. Two minutes to vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u142	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the Self-Help Unit will only vote on the basis of this bill. Undoubtedly, we need to support any initiative to create our own business, especially our own small business. But the bill has a number of flaws or even risks that I want to sound today. First. The bill does not provide for either the order or the criteria or the amount of assistance that the State will grant to disabled individuals, that is, the introduction of manual management by a separate article of expenditure. But it's the manual management regime that's causing imbalances in economic performance today, and billions of government calculations on budgetary indicators. Secondly, the drafters argue that financial assistance to disabled individuals will not be provided from state or local budgets. Such financial assistance will be provided on the basis of the sums of administrative and economic sanctions that have come into the state budget. Such a statement is at least controversial because the source of the fund’s budget is the coming of fines imposed on enterprises and money from the state budget. Well, to understand the numbers. Coming to the Social Protection Fund in the 17th year was 144 million dollars. A total of 167 million is planned for 2018. And such relatively small and modest incomes are distributed to the various needs of people with disabilities, so there is a huge risk that this money is not enough. So I'm convinced that these accounts have to exist in order for the law to really work. Under current conditions, therefore, it is not possible to guarantee that new initiatives will not require interference with the State budget of Ukraine. I think that these processes, the order of procedure, need to be worked out in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u143	Thank you. One minute, Ritchkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u144	The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko believes that the initiative deserves special attention from members of Parliament. The proposed changes create conditions for the provision of financial assistance for the development of entrepreneurial activities for those military personnel who have been disabled as a result of their service obligations. At present, dozens work successfully, if not hundreds, small and medium - size businesses, organized by former antiterrorists. What a fine example of Alexander Calapchi, who won the Ingrained Games, lost both legs in battle. He, however, returned to a full life and organized his own business for the sale of fuel briquettes. The important thing is that most of these guys hire their war brothers to work. And that gives them the opportunity to adapt socially and also to rehabilitate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u145	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u146	Yeah, if you don't mind. This enables them to adapt to normal peace. And so, of course, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u147	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Please, Kugel, one minute. He's calling for the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u148	You know, the question is very important, how the state helps people who have put their health in this war with Russia. Unfortunately, for the fourth year, there is a war going on, but by adapting to a larger one, rehabilitation in part of employment is done by grants. I was in Butchi and watched, thanks toUSAID, programs where all those who had passed the ATO and not only the disabled had the opportunity to submit their projects. And they gave very serious support. In a way like the bill, nothing works, I give you a hundred percent. Because you can't talk about tax benefits and not make any changes to Tax. And there's no procedure for granting these loans. If we take the disability fund that exists, and we translate the money just for the disabled ATO, then we put the unequal conditions that stand there and prepare the programs for the disabled in Ukraine. And that's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u149	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u150	It cannot be accepted as a whole because it is such a release, and it will not help any disabled person in Ukraine to receive money. You have to write it procedurally, and then it'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u151	Thank you. So we have a committee decision -- based on the proposal, the proposal from the author -- with a total readjustment, and two factions deny voting in general. Colleagues, please come into the hall, and we will now determine by vote. Please take your seats. One minute, Dennis. As long as the MPs come in, explain their position. Briefly, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to read a short bill. This bill introduces only a time limit that we can give at the expense of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities such irreversible or irreversible assistance. Including it says that the order of receipt of these funds is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and that is where it is defined. You know, for many years, this fund has been working in our country, and it's providing this kind of assistance to businesses, but businesses that are now made of numerals, and it doesn't provide that kind of help to people with disabilities. So we can approve? And so that we don't wait for the second reading, and then we'll look at it, and they're waiting. It's a draft bill for reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u153	Thank you. So if there's no danger of loss, I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote first. I'm asking you to get ready. And I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (5518) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. On the ground, yes. Please support me as a base. [[13:31:08]] For 237 Colleagues, I'm going to run an overall rating so I don't put it at risk. I'll run the ratings. Whoever supports its adoption as a whole, with Dennis' amendment, please vote. The rating vote. [[13:31:36]] For a hundred and It was a rating vote. The head of the Supreme Council at any stage may place a rating vote to study the thinking of the Hall. So let's move on to the next question of the order of the day. Is the short-term procedure for consideration of second reading supported? Short-term procedure for consideration of second reading. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[13:32:17]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Next. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on State support for participants in hostilities and their children for vocational and higher education. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[13:32:47]] For-179 And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Mr. Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u154	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, the right to state-of-the-art support for the acquisition of professional technical and higher councils in state and municipal educational institutions is vested in members of military forces who have participated directly in the ATO and their children. Taking into account the numerous references made by other categories of participants in hostilities, the bill proposes to grant the same right to all categories of participants in hostilities and their children, namely: volunteers who have been granted the status of a participant in hostilities and internationalist soldiers. To this end, it is proposed to amend the laws of Ukraine: "On the status of veterans of war, guarantees of their social protection," "On vocational and technical education", "On the protection of childhood", "On higher education." The main scientific and expert office provides a general conclusion that the bill can be adopted as a basis. During the committee’s consideration of the bill, it was pointed out that the age-limits imposed on the provision of State support until the age of 23 were applied in practice not only to children but also to the participants themselves. But unlike children, the age limit for combat participants to 23 years of age is illogical and virtually limits them to the right to receive such State support. In the Committee’s view, it would be fair to grant such State aid to persons with disabilities as a result of war and their children, since they are also directly involved in hostilities, but because of their disability, they have the status of a war invalid, not a fighter. In view of the clear and unambiguous application of the rules, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Registration No. 6298 to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law taking into account such technical legal rights. First. The title of the bill after the words "attemptors of war" should be supplemented by the words "a person with disabilities as a result of war." The other one. Paragraphs 1-4 of Section I of the bill should be supplemented by: (a) the words "before completion" should be supplemented by the words "such children"; (b) the rules which provide for the right to State targeted support for vocational and higher education in public and municipal educational institutions for persons with disabilities as a result of war and their children. Three.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u155	One minute, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u156	Third. In paragraphs 2, 4 of Chapter I of the bill, after the words "part one," add the word and the figure "article six." Four. The legal deadline for the selection of validity is 1 January 2019. Involve the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, with appropriate technical and legal remedies. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we do not have a co-report for this bill. And that's why I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now. For discussion now. Please, Mrs. Rickova. Aunt Rickov from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u158	It's about expanding the pool of benefits for military personnel and their children for higher and vocational and technical education. The current standards severely limit the alcohol category of military personnel who can take advantage of the opportunity to obtain an education. In particular, the benefits of volunteers and volunteer battalions, the majority of military older men, and other categories are currently excluded. Obviously, in order to avoid social tension, military personnel must have the same opportunities for further self - realization in society. It is important to stress that learning is one of the factors behind adaptation and a return to peace. Similarly, their children should have greater opportunities for self - realization in Ukrainian society. That's why the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party supports this decision and votes in favour of expanding the number of employees in the military for higher and professional technical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to thank my colleague Maxim Burbaku for the important bill on supporting children in combat during the entrance to vocational and technical institutions of education and higher education. Mr. Maxim, but there is one problem. Because of the government's policy in Ukraine, there's almost no PTU facilities left, because there's no state funding for vocational and technical education, they've transferred it to the local budget. The local budget, as we understand it, is the main budget for local budgets: courtyards, sewers, driveways and so on. Politics, public policy in vocational and technical education should unfortunately be gone. Because of the absence of this policy, we have a huge problem with the deficit of highly skilled workforces. Because more than 2 million people are employed in Poland because there are several times as many wages as there are in other countries of Europe. And today, when the authorities tell us about economic growth, this economic growth is done by labor. For this to happen, there must be a state policy for the development of the professional and technical sector, so that every child who wants to get work skills will have the opportunity to get it from the state support. Because soon we will have to write out mechanics, combiners, and builders from China, Turkey, and elsewhere. Because ours will all go abroad, where there will be more wages, and there will be no one left in Ukraine. We're asking the government to reinstate state funding for vocational and technical education; to adopt the National Programme for the Development of Vocational and Technical Education; to work with manufacturers, with the real economy sector, so that we don't have lawyers and economists at PTU, but builders and all the other necessary jobs. And that's how you solve the problem of highly skilled labor. The key is to be working people, which is to raise wages, social protection and social support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u161	Please, NataliaKorolewska from the Opposition Block. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, any bill aimed at improving the situation in the field of childhood, especially in education, is certainly important. I'd like to draw your attention to two draft laws that are unanimously supported by the committees, but unfortunately, they haven't been considered during the year in this room. This is Bill 6063-d, which aims to ensure a decent level of social protection for all families with children. This is the restoration of the social guarantees that have been collected and taken away from families with children throughout the country for the past four years. I would also like to draw your attention to Bill 6510, which is also supported unanimously by the committee of profile, on strengthening the social protection of children who have been affected by combat or armed conflict. It refers to small Ukrainian citizens who suffered in the east. Both bills are extremely important. And I'm asking you, Mr. Head, on behalf of the women who directly participated in the drafting of these bills, to look into these bills in the hall and find support. Because I very much hope that everyone in this room agrees to support the children and provide them with the necessary protection today. And we look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u163	Yeah, we still have the Starboard Burbak. Is he going to perform? No, it's not. Mr. Golovko, Mikhailo Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u164	This is the last performance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u165	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u166	Mr. Michael, one second. This is going to be a closing statement, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, I'm asking everyone to prepare for a decision, and there's going to be a vote in a minute. Please, Mr. Michael, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u167	Mikhail Golovko, "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union." Dear fellow MPs! We need the right law today to support our military, our war heroes, to protect our nation so that their children can learn and receive conditions from the state free of charge, to learn, to gain vocational and technical education, and today it is essential for the economic prosperity of our nation. Because today, indeed, the country needs acutely in the professional and technical fields, including welders, plumbers and other builders, who are acutely deficient. And it's a shame that today the government is translating the financing of vocational and technical education into local budgets, because we understand that it's not a policy of local budgets, that it's a strategy, a national strategy of the state, that it's to distribute and pick up the personnel that are needed for a particular sector or sector that needs to be developed and constructed. So we encourage the government to review and the coalition to provide funding for vocational and technical education, so that it works, because the local budgets will not pull it out and finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u168	Thank you. I'm sorry, we missed the People's Front. One minute is a flint, one minute, and we vote. Don't leave the hall or go into the hall. Please, Cream.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u169	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that we are primarily talking about increasing the number of entrants who can receive benefits in vocational education institutions as well as in higher education institutions. But what I want to stress is that right now at the Committee on Education and Science, which I have the honour to present, is a new draft law on vocational education that can actually modernize this field of education. Secondly, I would like to point out that we should talk not only about State support for such educational institutions, but also about the quality of Ukrainian education that will help modernize our economy. And the third. Last year, my colleagues at the Ukrainian Institute for the Future talked about the possibility of creating an education fund that would help to educate the best Ukrainian students, including at the best universities in the world. So I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u170	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on State support for members of the fighting and their children to obtain vocational and higher education (No. 6298) on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:44:56]] For 224 They didn't make it, I see! [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, there won't be any money. So I vote for the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for draft Law 6298. Please vote, please support the return. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:45:38]] For 232 We're back, colleagues. Now let's move on to the decision-making process. Be careful to vote on the button. 232 - back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're on it! All cyber attacks on parliament have always been successful. So 6298 is based on and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. We're voting carefully. Please vote [[13:46:24]] For 240 Look who didn't work. The law is passed. The law is passed. We move on to the next draft of the Law – 5470 and 5470-d – the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Means of Transport. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[13:47:05]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andriy Fedorovich. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u171	Good afternoon, respectable company! In fact, this bill has two elements. The first element is the amendment to article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Vehicles on Double Certification. We have turned to European experience and we offer the words "pass" to the customs territory of Ukraine to replace the words "washing" which will allow the certification of compliance with environmental standards to be given, not in the customs territory of Ukraine, but in the customs form for free circulation. Such a change will remove the corruption of customs activities regarding the import of transport equipment into Ukrainian customs territory. However, taking into account today's problem of sweeping and conducting the first state registration of ambulances, which the Ukrainian health care institutions have received as humanitarian aid from international organizations and Ukrainian diaspora abroad, we propose that article 3.2 of the law be supplemented by the words "as well as on ambulances recognized as humanitarian aid, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid, which is imported for free circulation." I propose to support this bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, very many of the Marjorie national MPs have come to me with the support of the bill, because the price of the question for today is over 400 ambulances that can't be registered and that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u172	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u173	As a humanitarian aid. I emphasize, it's only about, first, about the Humanitarian Aid Act, second, about ambulances. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u174	Thank you. From the committee head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u175	At its meeting on April 5, 2017, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy considered two bills at its meeting: 5470 and 5470. And he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 5470-d as a basis and as a whole. As you have already been explained, in the revised version, article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine and registration of means of transport is proposed to replace the words “passes to customs territory of Ukraine” with the words “move forms”. Thus, during the passage to the customs territory of Ukraine of vehicles for the purpose of free circulation, both new and those that have been used to verify compliance with environmental standards will not be required. Instead, such a certificate will have to be given at the time of customs clearance for free circulation in the customs office. Thus, a barrier to the passage of means of transport across the border for further customs clearance is removed, since the certificate of conformity required for the completion of customs clearance can be obtained in Ukraine rather than in the territory of the specially opened departments there in Poland or neighbouring countries. But after further processing, there was another problem that needed to be addressed. This is a situation with regard to the customs processing of ambulances, which are handed over to Ukraine as humanitarian aid, but do not exactly meet the applicable environmental standards of the Euro. That's why in this part we're saying that we need to make an exception and complete article 3.2 after the words "to a permanent residence in Ukraine" to complement with the words "and also on a ambulance, special-purpose vehicles, mobile medical clinics, recognized humanitarian aid under the Ukrainian Humanities Aid Act, which are imported for free circulation purposes and classified in the following codes according to the CCTVED 870.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u176	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u177	8703231910, 8303231930, 8703239011, 8703239013, 8703239031, 8703239033, 87703241000, 8703249010, 8703249030, 8703321900, 8703329010, 8703329030, 8703331900, 8703339010, 8703339030, 8705909090. In this connection, it is proposed to change the title of the bill, namely: the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Vehicles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u178	Thank you. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to hand this over to you at the request of the National Deputies. We could finish with the words "quick help," but we asked for the quick help codes, and they're dividing by the engine volume. So I just gave you an ambulance, but by code according to the engine's volume, because it was the request of most deputies that there be no distortions and then abuse in this particular area.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u180	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to do the recording: two for, two for, two against. And I would like to stress, the committee head read out just the codes needed by the legislation to be called. I, colleagues, ask for a very concise discussion. I'm already announcing a 15-minute extension, but I'd like to discuss this as closely as possible. Please record. And I hope that we can talk very quickly and move on to making a decision. Please. Self-help, who? Ostrikova, please. And cheaply, a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, we had no reservations before this bill. This will eliminate excessive pressure on those who are importing used vehicles into Ukraine today. The part that was added from the voice about the broadcast. The decline in Euro standards for ambulances that are being imported into the humanitarian aid system, our faction demanded that this list be supplemented with clear UCTZED codes according to engine and fuel consumption, so that it could not be imported by a microbus, for example, Mercedes, by putting a red and cross on it and saying that it was an ambulance that was going, as if it were a humanitarian aid. We know that today there is an abuse with humanitarian aid. Therefore, the very clear UCTZED codes, which were read by the committee’s head, apply exclusively to special - purpose vehicles, such as ambulances. Thank you for your attention, let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u182	Thank you. Treyak's Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u183	Please pass the word to Barna Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u184	Please, Barna. Please, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u185	Turn on the microphone, please, for Barney. Put the card right. Turn on Barney's microphone. Please speak. Come on, go to the rostrum, maybe? I'm asking the camera to analyze why the microphone doesn't work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u186	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u187	Please, yes, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u188	Dear friends, colleagues! The bill is more necessary than ever, especially to provide rural medicine with high - quality reanimation vehicles, special - purpose medical vehicles. I'll give you a simple example. The state is spending a lot of money on the development of community infrastructure. Among other things, when it comes to the development and development of rural medicine, cars are needed. In addition, for example, one community decided to purchase an emergency ambulance. But you have no idea what they've decided to buy. For 500,000 to buy a fast one on the basis of "Uazika", financing the aggressor country, more than that, to finance the Russian military plant. So it's obvious that this bill will not only make it cheaper to buy a car, because it's the same used one either on T-5 or Renault, or it's going to be cheaper than the new U.S. So I invite all my colleagues to vote on this bill, which is absolutely necessary for the Ukrainian communities, the village, and all of the inadequacies about the second reading, we will remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u189	Thank you. So once again, I call for flexibility. Please, Igorshurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u190	Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, we are now discussing the import into Ukraine of special means of transport or special services that will serve emergency medical care. I call on you all in the hall, well, stop being ignorant, well, there's no ambulance anymore. We have the Emergency Medical Act, and we have a machine for emergency medical care. What's the village for? Emergency medical vehicles will drive on Ukraine’s roads, and these are essential vehicles. Why? Over the past five years, the state has not been able to purchase any emergency cars. For emergency medical care. What is an emergency ambulance? First of all, these are the working conditions of the medical staff -- once, and, most importantly, these are the conditions for the transport of patients. I mean, this machine serves to protect people. And when we talk about importing into Ukraine today, another should say that these cars have been in Ukraine for over 8 months now and unable to drive just because we cannot give permission. In this situation, I propose one thing: we must support. But who will guarantee that these cars will serve emergency medical care? You remember once when you were buying small boots for emergency medical care, driving everyone and everything except doctors, and besides patients. Therefore, this bill should be adopted in the first reading, making a warning that they should serve exclusively for the needs of emergency medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u191	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement from the People's Front and moving on to decision-making. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. And please in the closing word as concise as possible. People's Front, Babi Yuriyyyovich. Anyone from the People's Front? Please turn on the microphone. Microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u192	The bill will only introduce ambulances that are provided with humanitarian aid. The project is supported by a profile committee. Please vote, please support me as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u193	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Don't come out, colleagues. Come into the hall. There is a vote, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Transport Means (5470-d) with proposals which the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Nina Petrovna, made on the basis of the proposal of the Committee and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful! Please be supportive. We're voting for the vote. [[2:01:55]] For 235 The law is passed. Colleagues, I've been approached by a statement from two factions: Self-help and Parenthood. They're ready (I went on for 15 minutes, I remind you), they're ready to switch the break for a speech from the rostrum. And I give the floor to Volodymyr Parasyuk, three minutes. And after that, I'm going to announce a lunch break in the work of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u194	Who needs to leave, you can leave, you don't get much work. You know. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, you can yell all you want, but there will be a time when you won't be heard, and then you'll be asked to be heard. So let's go, let's go, I'm not holding anyone. I am referring to today’s events at the Supreme Council. You know, Ukraine is already becoming North Korea on the issue of human rights and freedoms. Soon they will tell us how to breathe, how to move, who to love, what to believe. What happened today at the Supreme Council shows your wholeness and that the end will soon come. People just came to the Supreme Council to express their civic position because they don't like Dusty. Because it doesn't give them the opportunity to develop. Because they don't want to go abroad. By now, 2 million Ukrainians had migrated to Poland. Think about it! And this, your click on the green buttons and your President's signatures, has led people to come today. But the point is, people came to take a stand. And the law enforcement system, in order to meet people, violently collapses, leads them to shed blood again in Kiev. Everything they do. Because that's how they got stuck. Do you know who put them on? They've been stranded a long, long time ago. Because all those who come gradually change nothing. You have not fulfilled any of the requirements laid down by Maidan. Not you, Andrew, not you, Ira, none of you! That's why people came out. And you know, they're still coming here. And you just ask God that you have a place to run. There's a dot on it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m0.u195	Colleagues, time taken for work, are exhausted. I would like to point out that ten decisions were taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by noon. I hope we have the same fruitful and active work after lunch. I remind you, after lunch, there'll be a block of financial policy and transport and infrastructure. So I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I invite everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work.
