ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u1	Good day again! Good afternoon! Colleagues, please come into the hall. We need to work, work, and work, as John Jakovitch Franco said. And so I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, I want to remind you, by noon we had won a number of drafts on agrarian politics, a block of second reading. And now we're going to the next block of first reading. And among them is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and some other legislation against raiding, is it not, Mr. Chairman of the Committee? 8121, right? So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We'll start working on this bill. That's why I'm asking the author to be there. The author is. Coroner's in position. There's a reporter. And let's do it then. Please, colleagues, register and log in. Please register. [[16:02:47]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we're moving on to the next draft law of agrarian politics. This is a draft law amending Ukraine’s Land Code and some other legislation on anti-riding (No. 8121). Colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Vote. [[16:03:36]] For-73 The decision is not taken. The Supreme Council of Ukraine intends to discuss the bill in detail and to discuss it fully. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Oleg Ivanovich, please. We're going in full procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the bill before you is the result of the work of a working group that worked on the committee for several months. It was made up of members of the agrarian committee, including representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the State Department, and professional associations. The bill is called upon to provide tools to combat agrarian raiding, which, unfortunately, in recent times has literally destroyed the agrarian sector. I would like to point out the basics of the bill. First. The bill provides landowners with an effective tool against counterfeit lease contracts. Today, the lease agreement is made in simple writing form. Under such conditions, it is almost unrealistic for registrars to verify the validity of the owner’s signature on a contract. Using this, we have a rather common phenomenon of raiding land because of counterfeit lease contracts. The bill gives the owner the right to register the right to ban the registration of the lease without notifying the contract. The same right is accorded to members of the household associations who have the same problems with the change protocols. I want to point out that we do not introduce mandatory notaryal form. Whether to do so or not will be the owner or participant of the association. But if he does, his level of protection will rise significantly. The other one. The bill obliges you to digitize all land documents that are present today only in paper form, or those that were made up before 2004. The problem of double-registration of the lease we have today is that millions of leases and state land acts exist only in paper form. As a result, the land surveyor cannot verify that there was an old lease agreement because it is not available in the electronic database. This is used by the raiders, and a new lease is made on the basis of the old land lease agreement with another tenant. Thus, the bill obliges Kabmin, at the expense of his budget, to translate into electronic form and to report to the cadastre all existing rights to land. There are substantial changes to the order in which the leases are renewed. Today, when we register land rights, we have an application principle. What does that mean in practice? For example, the lease agreement is concluded for 7 years, but seven years later, the lease record is not excluded until the owner or the tenant issues a lease termination. As a result, the lease expired, and it continues to be valid in the register for years. We have major problems with the renewal of leases. The law requires that, in order to renew the contract, the renter should send a notice of wish to renew the contract to a new term. If the owner agreed or simply did not answer, the contract is considered renewed on the same date. In practice, we have a large number of abuses, such as mass shipping of envelopes, not with renewals, but with clean paper. The bill introduces two types of contracts: prolongation and no prolongation. If the contract does not contain longing conditions, the contract is automatically excluded from the register after the lease has expired. If the contract contains the terms of the lease, both the tenant and the owner of the lease will be able to submit an application for termination to the register. If the application is made, the contract will be automatically deleted after the lease period. If no application is made, it automatically continues in the register for the same period. So as a result of paper-sharing abuse, it's going to stop, it's going to go through the register, and the rights of both sides are protected. The bill also contains many other provisions. It's also communication with the State Land Cadastre online, and increasing the responsibility of government registrars, and automating the interaction between the cadastre and the register of rights. I would like to thank all the members of the working group who participated in the drafting of this bill. The document came out quite substantial, and, to me, it's pretty good. I hope that it will be voted in the first reading and will help to ensure that landowners and landlords get a real tool to protect their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u3	Thank you. Please prepare for the interview. Please hold the recording. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u4	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, an interesting bill, and we really have to support it. First of all, the question is, aren't we giving public cadastres access to this online regime too much, or are there going to be any violations? The other one. Once again, in the State Register of Real Estate Rights, the availability of appropriate property and so on -- it's all we're giving the opportunity to analyze, we're all giving the opportunity to do it anyway. Whether there are any violations or not, this is question number one, I'd like you to answer that question. And in general, I think we should accept it, and we will support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u5	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u6	I would like to point out that we've spent quite a lot of working groups just with Minnesota and the Dergeokadastrom, and all the comments you're talking about are taken into account by working groups. We've done quite a bit of, well, the editing is pretty clear: the interaction between the register of property rights and between the cadastre. So they're going to work in sync in online mode and absolutely nothing is going to interfere with normal work and geocadastro, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u7	Thank you. Davidenko Valerius Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! The bill is very important, and the land survey situation is taking on new and new turnovers. The commissions created by the government, the headquarters, they're not able to stop this situation, so the bill is in time. Please support him and put an end to this disgraceful phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u9	Thank you. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u10	Thank you, Valery Mikolayovich. In fact, we must make such legislative changes that all commissions and headquarters cease their functions. Because this is all about protecting the rights of owners, protecting the renters, all of this must be in the law, and all of this must be done. That's why you're saying it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u11	Thank you. And the final question is, Odnak Ostap Volodymyrovich gives to Evtushk. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Head! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, we're really looking at this bill right now, because there's a lot of cases about land surveying, and there's a lot of references to our receptions. But I'm looking at the bill, obviously we're supporting it, but I'd like to get an answer. First of all, I understand that the problem is the abuse of the power structures in terms of procedural action. Please tell me, is this legal and regulatory act, or does the draft legislation specifically regulate in this direction: the abuse of power structures precisely by the procedural actions that place arrests on the ground and thus raid land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. The bill is designed to protect the rights and owners of land and renters. Because you're right, there's been a lot of calls all over the country lately, every area, that are signals where people aren't really protected, and there are raids. And that's why I think we have to do everything, the copyright team and all the national MPs, to make such a bill that it really becomes a law that will protect the rights of owners and tenants. As far as your question is concerned, I think in the second reading we might be able to work out, and these things you're talking about about about abuse are not in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u15	Thank you, thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. The report invites the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u16	Thank you again very much to the people's deputies for the four agrarian bills. And I have such a expectation that we will vote on the last four that we have in the agenda. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its meeting on 3 April 2018, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code and some other legislative acts against registration (registration No. 8121), submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Kulinic, Bakumenek, Láško – more than 30 National Deputies, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. This decision of the committee is due to the fact that, in recent years, the raiding of Ukraine, despite the creation of a number of commissions — the interdepartmental government commission, the Minsk Commission, the operational district headquarters — continues to cause economic losses in Ukraine, damages the state's legal system and significantly complicates agricultural activity and the development of private business. To a large extent, the imperfection of the legislative regulation of the protection of property rights of owners and land users contributes to this. I would like to remind you that in September last year, a working group was set up at the agrarian committee to draft a bill on this issue, which included Ukrainian National Deputies, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Politics, the Ministry of Agriculture, agricultural associations, experts in the field of land relations, and relevant experts from the Office of the Attorney-General and the National Police of Ukraine. All the work of the working group has become the basis for the bill that we are currently considering. The bill proposes the introduction, at the legislative level, of a number of effective fuses that would make it impossible to obtain land illegally used by agricultural enterprises, including through the double registration of land leases, as well as the impossibility of taking possession of property and the acquisition of corporate rights of these enterprises. In particular, the bill provides for the improvement of the procedure for the State registration of land, goods rights on land and the interaction of the State Land cadastre and the State Register of Real Estate Rights, the provision of financing and the introduction to the State Land cadastre by 1 January 2019 of all information established by the State Land cadastre Act on all formed land areas, the increase of administrative responsibility for the exercise of State registrars' rights to breaches of the requirements of legislation in the course of registration, the resolution of other important issues in the field of land management. In general, the bill (registration No. 812) proposes to amend 14 Ukrainian legislative acts, which will allow for a comprehensive resolution of the issue of anti-registration. The adoption of this bill will ensure effective protection of property rights for owners and land users, prevent illegal absorption and capture of agricultural property. With that in mind, I ask you, Your Honor, to support the committee's decision and to adopt a bill (registration number 8121) as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u17	Thank you. Please record the question. I'd like a cup of Alexander, please. He's handing it over to Ichchenkov. Mr. Wadim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u18	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I ask that we be consolidated, because this law will significantly reduce the risk of logging that arises when entering the Munich register while both registers are distant from each other. This law helps us today to establish clearly how the leases will continue, and no one will just sign the papers today. If the owner of the land wants his lease extended notarially, it will be recorded in the corresponding register. Both registers are being drawn up, and even the data that was before 2013. Colleagues, I'll give you examples of raiding, they're so massive. And today, logging is happening: (a) through corporate governance; (b) through registers; and this through courts and law enforcement. It is by registering and drawing up these registers that we are improving our legislation today. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u19	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u20	Therefore, colleagues, I ask you to settle down and make sure that we accept the bill as a basis. We've already made other proposals to improve as much as possible so that the issue of raiding will go back in time and never return to the Ukrainian fields again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u21	Next, please, Sergey the Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u22	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. In fact, I'd like to keep my colleague and say that the faction will really support this bill, but on the first reading, because I think it's Vadim Yvchenko who's in the speech (by procedure allowed) that's going to tell a lot of stories about these terrible cases that unfortunately are in our day. Because our receivers today accept very terrible appeals from people who suffer from raiders. And you also have a question about the next point. The process itself and the abuse of procedural procedures in the power structures are what happens. Tell me, please, how are you going to work on the committee for second reading, and will you consider these things that are not yet in this legal act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u23	Thank you for asking, that's a very good question. As far as I'm concerned, we worked together, and the members of the Law Enforcement Committee were involved. And I think there are fields to the second reading where we can make a number of changes and additions that will be involved, including the expertise of these profiling committees, because we are an agrarian committee. And I think that the people who were legalists get involved in the second reading, the national MPs, and we're going to make this bill more detailed. And all the questions you're asking, they're very important, they're going to find their place in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u24	Thank you. And a final question. Happy Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u25	Please give the floor to the colleague of Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u26	Ostap Ednak, the political party "The Force of Men". Dear reporter, I have a question. This autumn, I hope that the Ukrainian Parliament will no longer continue the shameful moratorium and will launch the land market. And I think that this bill is very much needed in order to make it impossible to abuse, raid and so on when the long-awaited agricultural land market is finally working in Ukraine. But I have a question, this is a system of surveying, which clearly has signs of systemicity, of clear signs of cooperation or of a merger of law enforcement organs, notariat, perhaps by the Ministry of Justice and criminal groups. So there are signs of corruption and organized crime in these schemes. How do you assess the effectiveness of law enforcement in investigating these schemes? Because whenever a government can't do anything, responsibility is transferred to Parliament here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u28	That is, the Ukrainian Parliament must always stop holes when the government is idle or when the law enforcement authorities are abused. How do you assess the effectiveness of the executive and the law enforcement authorities in combating this raid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u29	First of all, the first part of your question is this bill, like the bill that we adopted on consolidation and others, are the bills that complete land reform. They're complex, they're designed to make it impossible for all these disgraceful phenomena to develop further to agrarian business. It's about the land market. Well, that's a question. We are now considering the law on circulation, the draft law on land circulation. A working group was created on the committee. We'll draft a bill, give it to the public. He will be studied by men and farmers, and all the latter, and will continue to be a political decision of the Supreme Council, whether to take it or not. As for law enforcement, I would. It's a two-part question. First. There are some law enforcement officials who behave themselves in a very dignified manner, who go right to these shameful phenomena, and who make active decisions on matters. And there's another question that you asked. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u31	work and give a law that will make it impossible to do such a thing as raiding at the legislative level. Further, you will be asked by the executive authority why this is being done or not being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u32	Thank you. So the questions are complete. Now come out from factions and groups. Everyone who intends to speak from factions and groups is welcome to participate in the record. Please record. From the "will of the people" to the performance is invited by Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u33	Please give Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u34	Please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u35	Dear National Deputies! We are now discussing an extremely important issue that will gain its focus, with the introduction of a particular market for land, and now we are seeing attempts, incidents are in every area, capture land that is leased to conscientious people who work on land, save land and pay people the right costs, and support rural communities. Obviously, this decision must be made. At the same time, however, the question arises: What if the leaders of state administrations act as raiders? Let me give you an obvious example. In the Novograd Wallin district of Žitomir district, by chance, the leaders of the territorial communities learned that the head of the district government himself secretly distributed, as a minimum, 2,000 hectares of land, which is a common property of the communities, are unspoiled pies. This was learned when young new owners of this land came to register the relevant documents. For this reason, I have repeatedly addressed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and all law enforcement agencies — cars now and there. Then the circuit board’s deputies decided on the mistrust of such a circuit overseer. At the same time, consider the fact that local people working on earth have been shown to pay 8 percent or more of the value of their food. To these people who have come, those who do not have anything to do with the area, the percentage is 3. When the circuit board decided to mistrust such a manager, it was refused to make the appropriate decision here in Kiev. After much insistence, a decision was made: To be released at your own request. Understandably, it represents a political aspect here on the right hand side of the governing political power at the moment. As it turns out, the hand washes the hand, the crow doesn't clean the eye. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I turn to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to complete the investigation of the case, and to accept objective conclusions. The main thing is to get this land back to the people. Because he passed, sat in the session room as a member of the district council, but the land of the people disappeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u36	Thank you. Please make the next statement. People's MP Yvchenko presents the position of the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u37	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! On June 17, 2016, a farmer, the village of Red Pouts, the Lubensky region in Poltavščina came to his field, and there were two John Dir combines. He was shown the ruling of the Court of Appeal of Poltava district, where he was forbidden to process his crops. Instead of being protected by law enforcement, his raiders beat him. Colleagues, in 2015 in their own home, the village of Potik in Kiev, allegedly killed the farmer Vasil Malovany. They walked into the house, poisoned the shepherd, tied up the wife, tortured the farmer, shot both his legs, and he died. So far, 2 years, the investigation is ongoing. Colleagues, Level-2010, Mikhailo Tribinenko. Mikola Tribinenko, in 2017 the registrar changed ownership structure: 65 percent for the offshore company, then sold to the Dnipromet Trade House. Colleagues, the Odessa region, the Dar farm, turned into a bumblebee, and then sold five million dollars to one of the deputies close to the coalition in that area. Colleagues, and such cases, millions of people die. Today, it thrives in three iposas. The first is corporate raiding when they're simply copying companies from one to the other. The second is the registration, when they change the registers, they change the records of the LLC, including when you don't own the leased land anymore. And the third is raiding through the performing service, through the courts and so-called borderless raiding when John Dire comes in and picks up another person's crop. This law regulates the very second part when we draw up the Ministry of Justice register, which was held until 2013 and since 2013. We're giving state cadastre registers online access to Minusto's registers. We cancel the need to get owners and users of land parcels of paper extracts, now it's automatically done by the registrar. We set out the duty of the State registrar to check the FTC with complete data on real estate and so forth. Colleagues, we'll make the most of it between the first and the second. We've got to get into the past few years, we've got to improve. And every tenant has a clear, investor, knowing that if he rents and invests money, no one will take anything from him. Colleagues, we vote in the first reading and we improve to the second more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u38	Please make the next statement. The Vadatoursky People's Deputy presents the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u39	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, on the one hand, we encourage investment, we create jobs, and on the other hand, unfortunately, we discuss unique cases of raids in Ukraine that unfortunately have become systemic. And that's why we really need this bill and we're looking forward to it. What do we decide? First. It addresses the issue of encouraging the transition to a single land register, since it stimulates the signing of notary contracts. Second, they also make changes to the land trade procedure. Yes, the guaranteed contribution to the lease is set at 50 percent, and there was 100 percent of the start-up fee for land use. Third. A number of other prevention measures are included. So it's supposed that a member of the association can set a requirement for notarizing the trueness of their own signature when making decisions on the issues of society's activities. The bill also eliminates the monopoly of notaries in its districts, since it allows the notary to operate outside its notarial districts in the event of a lease, a contract for agricultural land. The only question we need to decide is, who will pay for the notary? So this is going to be carrying a financial burden. And we have a question about whether this is going to be paid by the owner, which is going to ensure the security of that particular agreement, or whether it's going to be the financial burden of the state. Why? Because we constantly change the requirements for new and new registers. And so in order to stop and end this story, create new registers, you have to make the state responsible. And so, please ask your colleague to mobilize and support a bill that will reduce the level of raiding in Ukraine and can just invest in the agricultural sector, and reprocessing, and growing intensive agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u40	Thank you. Please take the position of the Self-Help faction to represent National MP Ivan Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u41	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, we have another brand law, 8121, which opposes raiding and illegal absorption. I want to point out once again that we've been going to these sign decisions for a very long time. How long? Because as we talk about, we write bills, the raiders do their jobs, they take property from people who have spent, in many of our cases, which I will then give, almost all of my life, creating their businesses, and in one day they lose it all. Therefore, this bill should be adopted urgently. I want to thank many self-help deputies from other factions who participated in the drafting of this bill. I want to make the statistics official, and she's talking about the following: statistics from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine: 400 raid cases in 2017, in 2018 it's 563. What does this talk about? That all of our powers, they say, all of our efforts, all of our work to prevent logging, unfortunately, have no positive effect. Today, my colleague, Vadim Ivchenko, has already given examples – this is the Coast or the House of Level 2010. Our deputies were there, where on one day the owner had copied his property, he didn't even know it. Then they resell, and then they went into the company in a strong way, taking all the assets, the ready-made products, and so on. The fraternal oilpress factory, Mikolai district, the same pattern. Good in the Kirovgrad region is the same pattern. The Horol children’s food combine is the only combination in Ukraine that produced baby food and competed with Western brands, and was also taken away. They took the raiders, but it wasn't raiding, it was raiding before, but it had some intellectual basis, some raiders used the legislative co-operations to go into the enterprise or take it away. In the last cases we deal with them, it's just a robbery, it's not a raid. When the owner is copied by false documents and physically taken away from the enterprise. That's why this bill needs to be adopted. I also want to pay special attention to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, under whom we have reinstated all the work of the Inter-Ministerial Anti-Rayder Commission, which is dedicated to business protection and has been working for the last six to seven months. There are some very fine successes already, and we've looked at dozens of businesses on this committee. And I want to ask, first of all, to thank him and ask him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u42	Finish up, please give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u43	First of all, I want to thank all the participants as well as Stepan Ivanovich Kubi for the work. But despite the presence of all the leaders of the power structures -- the Ministry of Justice, the representatives of the GPU, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the NABU -- unfortunately, we haven't been able to punish anyone yet. Because, yes, indeed, we have to act in a legal way when the raiders act in an illegal way, i.e. they are faster, more effective. But once again, if we act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u44	Thank you for your presentation. And now from the Rebirth Group, please have the floor of the national MP Labazük, please. Aah! From "the will of the people" Razwadowski gives it to him, please. But he represents the position, not "Rebirth," but "The will of the people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u45	The ancient Romans used to say, "Who is warned is safe." What do we have today? The raiders have found gaps in legislation, created their so-called groups, and perhaps very often, for the support of the power structures, they've built businesses that they've created for decades without scratching on property or even people's lives. What do we have today? The established anti-rider headquarters in the general government have not been able to function effectively, yet again because such fuses have not been regulated in the legislation. And the commission that was created under the headship of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich tried to eliminate all the gaps as much as possible, but in short periods without legislative changes, we saw that it was impossible to change that. What did we get? The Rayders, realizing that they have a year-and-a-half until we change legislation, are massive, and in certain areas there have been terrible consequences when people were killed. Today we have the opportunity with you to stop these events, which are quite a number of officially recorded events -- more than 570 events recorded only in the last five and a half years. So today we have to solve this question, and in fact, we're systematically deciding on the elimination of multiple blades. First. It's the lack of the possibility of notarial certificates of signatures of legal parties in changing ownership of corporate business rights, which allowed so-called black notaries to engage in conspiracies with raiders to take away business from people. The other one. Non-use by government registrants during registration activities of other registrars. Third. The incomplete information of the State Land Cadastre on land that was registered by January 1, 2013, which, again, enabled the raiders to work. So today, our task is to restore people's legitimacy and ownership, to enable them to create a normal investment climate, to provide guarantees and security for business, and, more importantly, to make an important decision about change. A moratorium on land sales. So today I ask you to support all the political forces and non-fractional drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, do I rightly understand that all factions and groups have exercised their right to join in the discussion of Bill 8121? There are no more wantrs, the Opposition Block, the People's Front? None. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up right now to discuss the national MPs of Ukraine. Please. Please, Alexi Muschak, give me your word. You will come out of the rostrum, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u47	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. Today we are voting on an anti-rerader bill that applies to people and companies who rent land. And we really want to protect their right, and that's the right thing to do. But what about the people who actually own them? Because, in fact, their rights have been raided 17 years since the moratorium was made? It's not just that we're losing money, it's actually not even that much of a question, although when we open up the market there's going to be a lot of money, it's a question of people's rights. This is no longer funny, for the European Court of Human Rights admits that the rights of 7 million Ukrainian citizens are totally violated in Ukraine. Honorable colleagues who advocate for the support of farmers, for the support of others, there, forms of property! How can you make long-term investments if your land is not owned and you are constantly at risk of being taken away? That doesn't make any sense, and that's why the Ukrainian agrarian is essentially made up of technical cultures. No one cultivates a garden where many jobs are given. Organica. Except, of course, for gardens other than the Zakartat region, nuts grow there. But, in fact, it's not as if it's a strong push for all of Ukraine, it's just a strong push for a small, small, but proud area. Dear colleagues, the matter needs to be addressed in essence. Moratorium is corruption, it's discrimination, and it's total poverty. And no matter how many laws we pass on anti-residence issues, but until there's a full ownership right to land, there will be no protection of lease rights. Thank you. Moratorium is evil, and it must be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u48	Thank you. Please make the next statement. National Deputy Vasil Nimchenko. There will be a bill of passage. Please, Mr. Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the question that we're dealing with the consequences. Look for a reason. From. Who the raider, who's his legal nature, is even negative. So what I want to tell you is that today, today, in Ukraine, "breathless" is infused, almost 6 million hectares of saltwater. "Bachelors" is in coffee pots because these lands are used, and because of the fact that these pie owners have already died down to one and a half million, and only three have been given, not used. Only 50 percent of those who have received pies today process the land and attack it. I want to say that we're here at the Supreme Council Hall to discuss the matter of the raiders. I can give you a familiar name of who's sitting here, don't worry, I can tell you the car numbers that used to drive around in Cherkaschi. These are the raiders here looking for them. And you know the events that took place in Kirovgrad and others. When we talk about raiding, we have to be honest with ourselves that the state has lost -- it has lost its power module with regard to violators. What a raid is, it's a robbery, and that's how it's qualified. And that's why I would like to say that when we talk about this issue and put it into discussion in a higher legislature, first of all we have to say about the sacred saints -- the property of the Ukrainian people -- that's what the earth is. In front of me, the speaker spoke of the fact that the moratorium is already a disgrace, that he should be thrown into a shirt, that he should be sold and sold out. So as long as these ideas are floating in our heads, it's going to be a disaster for Ukraine, it's going to be a disaster for Ukraine. I would like to remind you of what the earth has always been, fed the Ukrainian, and not only the laborer but also the workers. She fed the whole nation. And now look, look who's making the budget for today. Agrarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u50	You're done, aren't you? Please make the next statement. National Deputy Ivchenko, please give the floor to National Deputy Krulka, John Krulk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u51	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, bills that protect landowners' rights, which protect those who actually handle land fairly, create additional costs, produce a national product that pays taxes and maintains their families, should be supported. And the Fatherland faction at its meeting decided to vote in favour of the bill. But at the same time, let's take a look at the key problem of why there are situations in Ukraine that, frankly, make the hair grow and creepy. When ordinary Ukrainians who are accustomed to making their own bread - producing hands come to them, are beaten, the land taken from them, and are forced to sign ununderstandable contracts. I have a question: Is it a problem that Parliament has not adopted some kind of anti-trade law, or is it a problem that the law enforcement system does not perform its functions, which is to protect the rights of every citizen in the fight against bandits in the fight against theft? Instead, Parliament is forced to resolve these issues in this session room. And, of course, there are a few important things that I would like to say about which are in this bill. This is especially so when each landowner is entitled to demand that the extension of his lease, his pie, his land plot be certified notionally. And such a notary signature will provide additional protection. And so that landowners understand that they will not change how this is happening everywhere -- only in the front pages of the contracts by entering new dates -- and every time there will be a need for such a notary certificate. In addition, it is clear that this bill increases administrative responsibility for the commission of State registrations of violations of rights, violations of legislative requirements for registration. Criminal responsibility must be increased. Because unfortunately, we've given enough extensive rights to registerers, given enough rights to notaries who can now make any changes to government registers on their own. And that led us to have black notaries, those who abuse their rights. And when a person wakes up one day and turns out that he is no longer a landowner in the register, even though he has a corresponding claim to land. Clearly, then, such things must be dealt with first. But at the same time, it's not including the problem of Parliament right now, and it's not a question of the Criminal Code, it's because there's no responsibility for such notaries that the Ministry of Justice doesn't hold them accountable or disqualify them. If that were the case, obviously we would not have to talk in this session hall about the fact that landowners suffer from raiders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u52	Please give the following address to the national MP, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u53	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. There is now great wickedness, huge hypocrisy, in this session hall. When it comes to this detailed discussion of prevention of agricultural land registration, of the destruction of small and medium-sized agriculture, everyone understands that, in fact, the majority in this session hall have led to this condition. This is the majority of people in this session hall who are appointed by the Minister of Interior of Habakkuk, whose eagles are cruising this activity and are very often directly involved in the abuse of farmers. They do not participate in, for example, closing illegal flows, closing taxes on large agricultural holdings, and taking part in farm abuse. This session hall has adopted legislation on the so-called reform of the prosecutor's office, which in fact has never reformed the prosecutor's office in any way, and the prosecutors, as they cover these issues, are also hiding them, yes. This session hall voted in favour of the so-called reform of the judicial system, which actually saved the judicial system in the same place as it was before, and it's the same judges who make the same decisions that allow abuse of small and medium-sized farming. This session room voted in favour of a crazy decision on total decentralization in terms of registration of property rights, when now any notary anywhere can make any foolish decision, crazy, illegal in appropriate registers, and thus in a few minutes property goes illegally from the legal owner who did everything and worked to raise this enterprise to the completely left person approaching power. This session hall voted for it. And the thing is that, yes, you can vote for this law, you know, it's such a positive buttofora, it's some positive innovations that don't make much difference. Why aren't they changing? And because the law enforcement system is still not going to execute them, because we still have no legal state, in fact, without the implementation of this law, nothing will improve for small and medium-sized farmers. It will continue to improve for the latifundists, for the big agroholdings, and for the small and medium-sized farmers it will not improve, it will continue to be over them. They'll be bullied. So this is a fundamental question, a fundamental question in the rule of law. And it would be good for us to finally have a majority in the Supreme Council that would build the rule of law. And in this context, similarly, when it was mentioned, there were manipulations of the prohibition of trade in agricultural land, yes, the European Court mentioned, although it had made a completely different decision, it did not say that a wild market should be allowed urgently, it said that mechanisms should be created to sell land and that land could be sold to the State, for example, not necessarily to private owners. So when these manipulations were again, they don't talk about the main problem -- that we don't have a legal state. As the rule of law will be, so will it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u54	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u55	Just as the rule of law will be, so under the leased land will be making serious investments, as is the case in all the developed countries of the world. Because investments don't invest in the leased land, not because it's rented, but because they're afraid that these illegal mechanisms will take away everything after tomorrow, they'll tear the whole lease. So let's build a legal state, not do sophistication here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u56	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement from the deputies. Then we move on to making a decision. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. And now it's a closing statement from the National Deputies. The same as Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u57	Thank you. Ostap Ednak, the political party "The Force of Men". Dear colleagues, it is very good that this bill was drafted by the authors and finally found its way into the session room, and we need to explicitly accept it as a basis. And I would like, and I would ask the committee to work through August, so that we can accept it as a whole in September, because we understand that every week, every day, new facts of raiding are happening and that families of landowners, farm owners, businesses are all suffering from this lawlessness, and that needs to be stopped as soon as possible. Of course, the Ukrainian Parliament has been trying for the past few years to simplify the procedures for the provision of administrative services. We're creating administrative services centers. We provide additional opportunities for government notaries, private notaries, registries and the like. But in the implementation of these laws, there are legal coalitions, loopholes in the legislation used by lawless and public officials and registrars, and criminal groups. Because all of these laws that we adopt require responsibility, a certain legal culture. And a citizen, in turn, a farmer, an entrepreneur, should know that if, God forbid, something happens to his property, he will always be able to rely on law enforcement authorities to protect his rights and the judicial system. Can a citizen rely on those instruments of the rule of law? Unfortunately, neither did I. Thus, in fact, the most vulnerable landowners, small farmers, and so forth, suffer from this lawlessness. So I urge Parliament to adopt this law, because once again we must start the market for the land this fall. And we need to know that the legal mechanisms will work properly so that at the start of the earth’s markets we do not see such shameful events. And so that, God forbid, once again, certain loopholes in the laws that will be used by lawless people may not arise. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u58	Thank you. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. We finished the discussion. Please take up jobs and the heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Is There a Need for a Final Word? Bakumenko, Kulinich. It doesn't, does it? Therefore, members of the committee are also asked to mobilize as much as possible a colleague of national deputies. Please return from the government's beds and from the guest's beds to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and some other legislative acts against registration (No. 8121) on the basis of a committee proposal. Let's support the agrarian committee, colleagues, please vote, please support on the basis of 8121. We vote carefully and responsibly, we vote, please support. [[16:59:09]] For 232 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, I'm going to read the announcement first, and then your statement. Please, Irina Heratchenko one minute announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, there have come to the fore statements from the national deputies of Revega and Bandurov that their cards have not worked in the same way during the vote for Bill 6490-d, and they ask for their vote in favour of the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Promotion, Creation and Activity of Family Farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u60	Thank you. And now there's an application for a break from two factions: Self-help and Fatherland. The factions are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And it's going to be Semen Semenchenko, three minutes, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u61	In the last days, the situation surrounding the stop and inspection of FF and FSB vessels following the Kerch-Enikal Canal to the Ukrainian ports of the Azov Sea is alarming. For example, on July 9, the FSB of the Russian Federation detained seven merchant vessels in the Azov Sea that were going to Ukraine. Both Ukrainian and foreign vessels were subject to detention and inspection. On Ukrainian ships, the FSC’s employees carried out interviews with crews of Ukrainian vessels in addition to their inspection. And they were looking at Ukrainian sailors' bodies, crew members of patriotic tattoos, asking about participation in ATOs, volunteer battalions, the Right Sector. In parallel with the economic blockade from the sea, an increase in the military presence of the RF in the Azov Sea began, where only ships of their coastguard and overseas service were present until May 2018. Now, a virtually Asian fleet of RF fleets is being formed. It consists of artillery boats like Jamil, small ships of the Serna type that have already been turned over by an aggressor from Kaspia. At the beginning of June, two rocket skirmishes arrived in the Azov Sea, which had previously been involved in rocket attacks on Syria’s territory. By means of military force, the economic and commercial activities of Ukraine in the Azov Sea have thus become marred by Russian aggressors. In addition, an invasion or shelling operation on the coast of the Azov Sea by these Russian groups poses a threat. Why is this happening? The Cordon of Ukraine on Azov is now passing the de facto downhill line. The Russians can operate freely in this sea, based on the 2003 Treaty on the Common Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. In other words, the Ukrainian-sea border is not actually there. In the small Azov Sea, a large naval group of the RF has formed, and we need to respond immediately. The self-help faction has already registered with the Supreme Council a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President, the Ukrainian Defence Minister. And by introducing this draft decision, we require the President of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. And according to paragraph 5 of the first article of the Ukrainian National Security Act, turn to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the internal and external status of Ukraine in connection with the construction of the bridge through the Kerchen Strait and the aggressive activities of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea. We understand what's happening now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u62	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u63	We realize that the minds of many high - ranking people are now occupied only by elections, but the choices, dear friends, are yet to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u64	So we finished the message. We move on to the next issue of the agrarian committee: this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to regulate the implementation of procedures. phytosanitary procedures (No.6673) It's a second reading, colleagues, not much right. That's why I'm asking you to stay put. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u65	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, on March 20, 2018, Bill 6673 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulating certain phytosanitary procedures was adopted by the committee on the first reading. When preparing the project for second reading, 92 suggestions and amendments were made to the committee, including 51 in part 16, to take into account 2, to reject 22 amendments. I'm going to take a moment to stop at an editorial that's being proposed by a committee that takes into account these rights. First, there are major problems in the field of phytosanitary control today. The critical situation involved modifications. The main reason is the low quality of phytosanitary expertise. The supply service simply lacks the necessary number of inspectors and material and technical services. The bill proposes to solve this problem by authorizing private laboratories to carry out separate phytosanitary procedures, sample selection, and phytosanitary expertise. Authorization is a common European practice where private laboratories at the level of the state take samples and conduct expertise. For example, this has been the case for many years in Holland, Germany, and other countries of the European Union. The issue of a phytosanitary certificate remains with the state, that is, whether the cargo meets the phytosanitary requirements is determined by the state inspector. Secondly, the bill foresees the creation of a register of authorized laboratories and their findings and a register of phytosanitary certificates. The introduction of such registers will allow proper control of the activities of not only private but also state laboratories. Thirdly, the bill does not destroy the existing system of phytosanitary expertise but merely complements it. The state labs that work today will work as well. Moreover, they will not be subject to additional accreditation conditions for three years. They are automatically considered authorized, and the function of arbitration and phytosanitary expertise remains in general state. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it proposes a second-reading bill (6673) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to regulate certain phytosanitary procedures to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law. So please, Your Honor, support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u66	Thank you. So I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. If anyone wants to bet on any amendment, by raising their hand. 7th. 12th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 19th. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 32nd. 37th. 43rd. Lechenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u67	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, first of all, I wanted to point out that this bill, unfortunately, prolongs the tradition that has emerged in this room, the sad tradition of destroying Ukrainian state regulation as such and privatizing the state. I'm waiting for a bill to finally appear in this room on the privatization of the police, well, it's private and so on, but de jure to privatize it, well, that's right, the preamble. In specific terms, the position set out in paragraph 4 of the first new article 13-1 of the law, according to which the requirement to authorize the laboratory to carry out an examination and phytosanitary analysis is that there is a presence in its composition, and I quote "experts with appropriate education and qualifications, including for sampling, without legal certainty." What is appropriate education? Such a situation does not determine what specific education is meant, what qualifications an appropriate specialist should be qualified for. So I propose that paragraph 20 of paragraph 6 of section 2 of the bill be supplemented by the words "phytosanitary education". So not "appropriate education," which has no legal definition, namely "in the field of phytosanitary control." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u68	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u69	Regulation 43 provides for the establishment of a requirement for phytosanitary laboratories for special qualifications in the field of phytosanitary control. But such qualifications do not exist at all. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment accordingly and logically. But let the room be determined by the insistence of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u70	Thank you. So I'm going to vote 43. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[17:08:49]] For-64 The decision is not made. 45th. Don't insist. 49th. Don't insist. 52nd. 54th. 55th. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u71	Thank you. Well, first of all, about the previous amendment. I didn't write about qualifications, I didn't use the term, I said "in the field of phytosanitary control." And that's the specificization of education. And you just wrote "appropriate education." Which is "appropriate," which is why it's not clear. But yes, a comment about the previous one. Now for this amendment. According to part four of article 13.2, which is complemented by the law, I quote: "The results of previous phytosanitary expertise can only be charged by a person who owns a cargo or authorized person." So this position deprives the state inspector of the right to charge with the results of the previous phytosanitary expertise. And if you allow private expertise, what happens? There's manual expertise in the manual private "expert" (in quotes), yes, and then its state, if the state disagrees with such purchased expertise, can't complain, because an appeal is possible only if such an appeal is made by, in fact, the owner of the cargo or the authorized person. I mean, government control is actually disappearing as such. So, of course, there must be an opportunity for the state inspector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u72	30. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u73	Amendment 55 is not considered by the committee, because it provides an opportunity to challenge the results of phytosanitary expertise by any person, including the State Food Service. And according to the committee, the charges should remain solely with the owner of the cargo. And as for arbitration, I've already told you, when I presented this bill in the second reading, it's out of state. And that's why there's absolutely no abuse here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u74	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 55, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:11:03]] For-39 The decision is not taken. And there's literally a few lines left. I ask you to invite everyone into the hall, and in a few minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible. 68th, 70th. 76th, insists Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u75	Thank you. First of all, with regard to the previous amendment, this kind of manipulation is interesting. It is said that arbitration remains outside the State, but it does not say that the State cannot initiate this arbitration. Only a private person can initiate. Well, very, very interesting. And when we talk about this amendment, the proposal of section I, paragraph 11, paragraph 2, of the bill proposes to complement the provisions that would ensure that the phytosanitary measures of the exporting country are taken to regulate imports of plants and plant products originating in Ukraine. In view of the above proposal, the bill should be supplemented by a new paragraph to determine that phytosanitary measures applied to imported goods should be equivalent to those of the exporting country when regulating imports of plants and plant products originating in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u76	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u77	This right suggests applying in Ukraine phytosanitary requirements that are identical to those applied in other countries to Ukrainian goods. This proposal cannot be supported and was not actually supported by the committee, since different phytosanitary situations and organisms in different countries are referred to as sub-cancers. It is not possible to talk about the equivalence of measures, as this may threaten the phytosanitary security of Ukraine. That is why the committee rejected the amendment. But please, if a national MP insists, he has a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u78	I'm voting number 76. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall. [[17:13:10]] For-41 42, no decision taken. 83rd. 88th. 89th. 91st and 92nd. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing draft Law 6673. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm giving the author another minute, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. And I'd like you to take your jobs and come into the hall. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! I'd like to point out under the transcript. In view of the failure of an important government bill during the morning session, I ask the transcript to support an important technical regulation that will finally allow the Ministry of Agriculture policy not to set a sugar quota, thus blocking the whole sugar industry. I'll read it under the transcript. Section III of the bill adds a new paragraph to this effect: "Concealing that the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar has become effective." But in the part of the first article 5 of the Act on State Regulation of Imports of Products, the word “except mandatory minimum prices for the implementation and sale of sugar beet to produce sugar of quota "A" and quota "B" and sugar of quota "A", which is determined by the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar” is excluded. Please support the draft Law 6673 as a whole as a law that takes into account this important amendment and join the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, in carrying out the technical and legal drafting of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u80	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone out of bed to return to the hall. Please prepare for the adoption of the law. Fellows, look who's gone and invite you to the hall. There's not enough people's deputies in this room right now. Secretariat, please report to all of the towers. So let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulation of implementation. Ask me to wait 30 seconds. I'll wait, okay. The committee wants to wait 30 seconds. You got it, right? Thus, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to regulate certain phytosanitary procedures (room 6673) in the second reading, and in general with an amendment that the head of the Kulinić Oleg Ivanovich subcommittee, read second reading, and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Let's go into the hall! Vote! Please be supportive. [[17:17:00]] For 185 185-yes. Colleagues, there's an offer from Kulinich without correction. You're gonna vote without an amendment? So I'm putting to the vote draft Law 6673 without an amendment, which was sounded by Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich, in the second reading, and in general with technical law. Is it accepted? Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. No redecorating, yeah. [[17:17:46]] For 222
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u81	I see. Yes, please take up jobs. According to factions: "Block of Petra Proshenka" – 88, "National Front" – 57, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 17, "Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 15, "Fathership" – 0, "Will of the People" – 6, "Rebirth Party" – 20. We didn't have enough votes. Please take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? The committee? I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 6673. And I ask you to vote, we've run out of votes. Careful! Every voice. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:18:51]] For 234 We're back, 234. And now I'm putting draft Law 6673 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. Every voice. Vote. Careful! Every voice. Vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:19:18]] For 234 The law is passed. Decisions are also made. Next. Draft Law on Fundamental Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (No. 8171). And I'm asking you to support, colleagues, the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support, colleagues, so that we can complete the agrarian block. We're backing up the abbreviated procedure. Please vote. [[17:20:01]] For-136 Colleagues, we can go full time this is going to be an hour and we're not going to consider any more laws. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support a reduced procedure. Draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (8171). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. Members of the committee, help me, please support me, we vote. [[17:20:45.]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich. Please, Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u82	Thank you again for supporting the agrarian bill. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, your opinion is on the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (Registration No. 8171), submitted by the people’s deputies Bakumenko, Kulinich, Lithuania, Labazuk and others. The project is a systematic act that determines the principles and priorities of agricultural policy and rural development. So far, Ukrainian legislation does not have a normative document to determine the coordinate system in which our agricultural sphere should develop. Framework laws that lay down the principles for the development of agriculture and public policy for rural development exist in many EU states, and we are convinced that Ukraine should have such a law. Moreover, Ukraine has made a commitment to implementing national legislation on EU agricultural legislation, which is why it is also an obligation for our European partners. State policy priorities, in line with the project we have proposed, are to ensure the food security of the State, improve the competitiveness of Ukrainian agriculture, encourage the development of small producers of agricultural products, protect the rights and interests of landowners and land users, ensure the continued management of forest and fish holdings, and so on. In the law, in the bill we also determine what to represent, to protect the interests of Ukrainian producers abroad, will be the offices of the agricultural attaché, which will operate within Ukraine's foreign diplomatic institutions. Please support all colleagues in their first reading the bill on the basic principles of State agricultural policy and public policy for rural development (8171). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u83	Thank you, reporter. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Didic Valentina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 21 June 2018, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Agricultural Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (registration No. 8171), which aims to establish a legislative basis for the establishment of the basic principles for the implementation of effective State agricultural policy and public policy for rural development. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft Law registration number 8171 on the basis of the Committee’s proposals. I'll read it under the transcript. Article 1 of the bill is to be supplemented by a new term of this content: "the services of rural hospitality are the services provided by members of the private agriculture and include: the accommodation (dwelling) of the resters (not more than 10 beds-towns) in the dwellings of the members of the private agriculture, the parting areas of the land and the provision of food for such resters, mostly the products of the farm and/or the creation of conditions for their own preparation of food; the organization of permits and measures related to local customs and hospitality traditions, etc.". Paragraph 3 V, section. VI. Chapter VI of the bill reads as follows: "3) in the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act, part of the first article. The words "and in the field of rural green tourism" are replaced by the words "rural hospitality." Part of the first article 7 is to be supplemented by a new paragraph: "to provide services."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u85	Please, how much time do you need? Please, 30. Give me a minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u86	In addition, in view of the Ministry of Finance’s comments on the impossibility of increasing public budget expenditure, we ask that part of part three of article 17, part one, article 20, of the bill be deleted. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u87	Thank you, co-reporter. You can sit down. Please prepare to discuss the bill. Please record for discussion. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Semimenho.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u88	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! Today, according to the State, there are more than 45,000 agricultural holdings and more than a hundred large agricultural companies in Ukraine. And farmers today are among the largest employers in the regions, and the agrosector is a city for more than 3.5 million Ukrainians. But despite all the claims made today, the village is declining because the level of state support today is very low. And this bill is actually an attempt, a proper attempt, a new strategy for the development of the Ukrainian village. He proposes to oblige the State to finance agrarian policies at least five percent of all budget expenditures. But for example, since this year, more than 14 billion dollars have been allocated to the APC, which is just less than one and a half percent. Accordingly, is there a question of how realistic this strategy can be? That is, at the expense of which, for example, if this law is adopted, other government expenditures will be reduced in 2019. And how do you make a real mechanism in such a way that these grants are distributed evenly, not as this year, when actually a third of all state subsidies were received by one of the largest agrarian companies, and the cost of real peasants, small and medium-sized households did not actually reach. Therefore, it is vital that this document provides for subsidies and one - time assistance to those who decide to leave the city for rural living. True, the amount of such assistance is still unknown, and the question again relates to the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why the self-help faction supports this initiative. But I'm convinced that in order for it to become a real tool that will work in the village, until the second reading, it has to be a specific software document that's been developed so that, again, money really goes to those who need it, especially to small and medium-sized farmers, who are today's main middle class in the country and who are today's most giving jobs to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u89	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, any state policy, it should include the efficiency of the work, including state-owned enterprises. And it's the control of the efficiency of state-owned enterprises that provides control, the control is being carried out by the Court of Auditors. We passed Bill 8152 18.03. In the 18th year, which is an opportunity to increase the basic potential and resource potential of the Accounting Chamber. In this regard, I request the Bill 8152 on the currency to complete section III, paragraph 1, of the Final Positions with the words "except for its paragraph." Except for its paragraph 10, which takes effect the next day on the day of publication of this law."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u91	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u92	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, any law has to work and the appropriate ministry has to work out legislation that will be implemented. Please tell me, did we adopt such laws to protect the rights and interests of landowners? No, it's not. Is there an agar policy to protect the landowner? I won't. What happens to the constant management of the forest farm? Did not the foresters scream in a loud voice when they wanted to create a concert with a legal entity in Kiev and destroy all basic businesses in all regions? What have we done? That's all right! Have you allocated funds for the development of the forest sector or for the development of the relevant garden material? You didn't get it! Colleagues, raising standards of quality in rural areas I've always done. I don't want to talk at all, because the Supreme Council hasn't passed such laws in five years. Colleagues, 5 percent of budget expenditure. Can you remind me how much this year? By five percent, we'll be going for 30 years! And these are the basic things that are written in the law. I mean, it's a framework law that's not going to fill the agrarian sector, it's not going to change anything. I'm glad we're going to have an agrarian attaché office, we're going for it, and we want the agrarian attachés to be. Associations will pay for appropriate agrarian attachés that will promote our agrarian production in international markets. And the second is the removal of obstacles to the development of family farming, a basic producer who today is actually creating food security in all countries, but not in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u93	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u94	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Our political power supports all legislative initiatives aimed at the development of the agricultural sector, to protect the interests of the village and to support Ukrainian farmers. But it was supposed to be a framework conceptual law. Today we need to create real tools for supporting and developing agriculture, agriculture, and building a successful economy. So today, we need to adopt as quickly as possible the laws on development and support for agriculture, which is co-sponsored by the Radical Party team led by Oleg Lashk. I call on the committee of profile tomorrow to consider the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in the fastening part: farming is the foundation of the Ukrainian state system – it must be registered in the Ukrainian Constitution. This was initiated by Oleg Ljashk and the Radical Party team, along with 175 national deputies in this room. This is the norm in the Polish Constitution, and it leads to a total production volume of Polish farmers – more than 25 billion euros. And that's one and a half million farms doing that, on average, they own about 15 hectares of land. This model works. In addition, it is urgent to adopt a package of legislation on the agrarian and the orphan congregation that will allow for the provision of targeted donations to farmers holding cows. For each cow, 5,000 bracelets, at least, subsidies to avoid being cut into meat for milk, to ensure food security and national security in the country. These laws have already been introduced and are in Parliament. Support them – this will be the real support of Ukrainian animals, Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u95	So, colleagues. The discussion is closed. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Faction heads, please mobilize as much as possible. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (No. 8171) proposed by a committee based on the Committee's proposals. Everyone, please take part in the vote, take the job. And please vote and support. Vote. Colleagues, every voice! Vote. On the basis of that, please support. [[17:35:33]] For 168 And once again, you're going to support the second? Oh, that's one more time, for the committee to work on. Colleagues, show the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 73, People's Front – 46, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 0, Radical Party – 12, Parenthood – 6, Will of the People – 9, Rebirth Party – 9. Colleagues, the next proposal is for a committee to work on. Let us concentrate around this proposal, perhaps it will unite the hall. I therefore propose that the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (No. 8171) be sent to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. Colleagues, this is a compromise position, let's support it. Vote. [[17:36:57]] For-187 I'll put a third motion for a vote, that's the subject of the legislative initiative. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the third proposal provided by the Rules for the draft Law 8171 to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative. Please vote, please support. We vote not to lose the bill. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:37:49]] For a hundred and Mr. Alexander. Draft law, we didn't make it, did we? I'll put it back on if I don't. No, it's too few voices. Bill 8171 has been rejected. And, colleagues, the final bill of the block of agrarian issues, that's 6527. Ask the committee to place it on the ratings. So I'm putting the agricultural cooperation bill (6527, 6527-1 and 6527-d) into a rating vote. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[17:38:54]] For a hundred and My colleagues, I was approached by several national deputies. Attention! Let's see which of the laws might have support. I'll put the next 7390 to the vote. The rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Ratings 7390. Please vote. Please vote. The rating vote. [[17:39:38]] For-136 Next 8015, rating vote. 8015, this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects). The rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:40:12]] For a hundred and I was approached by several national deputies to have 3131, the next draft of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Objects of State Property. I was convinced by the authors that he had general support in the hall. 3131. So, colleagues, please prepare, I'm conducting a rating vote on draft Law 3131. Please vote, please support. Vote! Ratings. 3131. The authors were convinced that there was general support in the hall. [[17:40:56]] For a hundred and 150. No overall support. And the final one I'm going to place on the ratings is the draft of the Medical Services Act (4074). So 4074, the rating vote. Please vote. Please vote. The rating vote. [[17:41:33]] For-143 143. Colleagues, what's the matter? I was convinced that these laws had full support. So once again, the next one is 1910, the "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance". The rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:42:02]] For 133 133. Colleagues, let's talk about how we can move on. I'm asking for factions per minute. "Block of Petra Prashenka", Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u96	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, as you have seen, this morning, after a constructive position had indeed been taken, and on Thursday the issue of updating the Central Electoral Commission was returned, thanks solely to the votes of the factions of the Party "Clock of Petra Dustenka" was approved by a number of the two-pronged laws that applied to our agrarians. And we would like to thank everyone who voted for these laws. And I'd like to personally thank all the members of the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party. As for the situation for now. So unfortunately, as you can see, the laws don't find support in the session room. So I suggested that after the exchange of views, if these laws were not found, I would try to put them to the vote a few more times, and then I would approach the logical conclusion of our plenary session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u98	I thank our colleagues at the B.P.P. for returning today for fruitful work in the hall. For my part, I want to thank all the members of the Supreme Council for their fruitful work today and for supporting our agrarians, because these agrarians, this is our land. There's no political affiliation, it's just a bill for the development of the best and, I think, the most potential source of revenue for our budget. Mr. Head, I think we should put the ratings vote again, find the bill. But I can see that most of the deputies have already left the hall, unfortunately, but we need to make some conclusions on how to improve discipline in our hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u99	Thank you. Debenkov, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u100	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues! As Yuri Anatoliyovich Boyko said, the head of our opposition block faction, we did not take part in the vote, despite the fact that the bills in question are really important to the agrarians, and we would only support them on one condition if we put in and voted in Bill 8263, which deals with the wages of miners, because it turns out very cynically that some of the bills are impeccable, and when it comes to dealing with personnel issues within the Central Electoral Commission, the presidential faction begins to block the work and in general ignores our demands. Therefore, one of our requirements for today is the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the bill relating to the payment of wages, wages to miners, and then we will also be actively involved in this process of voting. And now we have to take a passive position, because this is an action of our protest, and we want to point out once again that there are still miners on the street who are still demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u101	Thank you. From the Radical Party, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I would also like to thank all those who have taken part in the vote today. I also want to point out that Oleg Láska's Radical Party is taking a state position, so we've supported all the Ukrainian agrarian support bills. And that's why we also agree that we need to support the Ukrainian miners and put to the vote Bill 8362, whose co-authors are the deputies of our faction. To finally provide miners with normal living and working conditions so that they have a job and a decent salary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u103	Thank you. Rebirth, Anton Yatzenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, indeed, it is very sad that today again, almost six evenings, and there are almost no people in the hall, and we cannot work effectively. The Rebirth Party is very much asking for Law 7390 to be imposed on Thursday. It's aimed at paying the salaries of the employees of the skynergo. First of all, this is Zaporozhyeblanergo, Chercasioblanergo and others. People today don't actually get paid for months, they get fired, they leave the country. To illustrate, today, 6,000 workers in Zaporozhyeblanergo have released 2,000 workers. Looks like Chercasioblenergo. Thus, in due time, the State made a huge mistake by handing a portion of the obelerga into private hands, called oligarchs. And then there was a situation where these companies were just being set up. Today, however, simple workers suffer. Therefore, it is a very big request to include this law. If it is not supported, it remains the same again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u105	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u106	And so you either have to pay these salaries out of the budget, or you have to make some kind of mechanism that will make it possible to pay them off. And today, unfortunately, we have been discussing this for the second year, and people are suffering. Please put it on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u107	Thank you. First the Fatherland, then I'll give it to you. Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u108	Dear friends, Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you very much for having led this session today, and you've been in a couple, thanking the hall, which is even minimal, but today you've adopted extremely important agricultural laws, I want to emphasize. Friends, 6 million compatriots have left the country to engage in a business that is common to Ukrainians, a business that is common to agriculture, but they have gone to hire. Today, the Supreme Council has taken a decisive step to get these people back to do so themselves, but at home, having land, with a perfectly clear tax system available. We have yet to adopt a law that will allow the state institution itself to finance, not commercially, the lending of 2 percent of the annual, as in Europe, of the insurance market, so that the state takes on some of the insurance risks as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u109	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u110	And, friends, in fact, we can have some kind of completion of agrarian reform. This law has even opened up a partial land market to tell all our donors that the land market in Ukraine is open because it is a market for Ukrainian peasants. So I want to thank all of you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, for winning today's agrarian day, and winning Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u111	Thank you very much. Thank you for your support. From Bandurov's will, then I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u112	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I would also like to thank the entire hall, but I cannot. Because we're going to be the next one, and we're going to be the next one, and we're going to be the next one, and we're going to be the next one. In particular, this is Bill No. 7390, mentioned by my colleague Anton Yatzenko. It's not just a bill, it has to decide the fate of specific people. I've come back from the county, I've got this town called Dniprostne, and there's 20,000 people living there. For 20 employees who have to work on a regular schedule, the employees of the skynergo, there's only four employees. Why? Because Olanergo doesn't get a salary in 2017-2018. Debt in just three months 2018 amounts to 209 million dollars. People are counting and getting out of work, and today almost 2,000 people have left their jobs at Zaporozhyeblanergo -- it's going to be a personnel disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u113	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u114	A human catastrophe, a social disaster that could lead to an energy disaster, to an energy collapse. Mr. Head, I very much ask this bill on the next sessional day, to be put not at the end of the day, but at the beginning. And another bill 3131, today very many people, in particular 5,000 nuclear energy workers, are waiting for this bill, they can't get housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u115	Thank you. I just want to point out that the pace of our work is determined by the Supreme Council Hall. I put every law in short notice, but we've gone twice in full today -- it's after an hour. Accordingly, we have not been able to get to the laws that you have heard. And a closing statement from Self-Help, Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u116	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! It's a little strange, if not the church, to hear us thank each other here. In fact, people who go to work should not give thanks but do their jobs every day. And if more of our colleagues were to do their work with you directly, we would be able to consider today another very important law on agricultural cooperation that farmers in the country are waiting for today. I'm also paying attention to our colleagues, the attention of the Chief of the Supreme Council, that not for the first time and not for the second time during very important bills, they're trying to move through the right-hand format completely unfair, or even openly lobbying, criminal things that call into question the integrity of any legislative initiative. Colleagues, if we go like this, we'll soon be in second reading, we'll be in law and we'll change the Constitution. Therefore, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I appeal to you carefully to monitor this, if the Rules are severely violated, such laws cannot be considered in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m1.u117	Thank you. The committees are drafting various bills, and we are making decisions here together. My colleagues, I'll tell you, the day was today, really, unforgivable, because we had it this morning. Many of the national MPs were saying good-bye to our legend, and yet, we've had a successful agrarian day, I think. We have made seven decisions today: four laws in general, two laws we have adopted as a basis and one for rereading the first reading. This is indeed the result and indeed the work of both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the committee that prepared a very high-quality agenda. And I would like to point out that the order of the committee of the day, not in other places, as some have pointed out here in the hall. And I'm sure we'll be able to spend the same successful days tomorrow. I want to remind you, tomorrow there will be an important bill on inhabited mountain sites, tomorrow there will be a business ombudsman, two regulations of the education committee that apply to scholarships for students. And so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall tomorrow at 10 a.m. so that we can have a full day's work. I would also like to read another statement that came from the national deputy to the presidency, from Babi Yuriy Yuriovich. He's asking to count his "yes" vote in favour of Bill 6490-d. You know we can't add this to the vote, but we're speaking from the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
