ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening session. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I want to remind you that the next one is Law 7304 and Law 7304-1. And I have a request and a request for us to support all of the short-term procedures so that we can go through those laws that are still standing, such as the issue of information, as well as the issues relating to the protection of children's rights. And so I'm going to go to the hall and ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. So I want to remind you again. After the Bill 7304-1 there are two laws: the issue of information, then there are the extremely important laws and 3131, and 6007, which were highlighted during the Conciliation Council by deputies from different factions. We have a chance to reach them. But to do so, we need to work effectively and in harmony. And I'm stressing once again that we put aside the political aspects, and we've all supported the consideration of short-term issues. They are not that big, and we can fully consider them, as usual. So, please prepare for registration and ask the National Deputies to sign up for the evening session. Please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:07:07]] 362 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put a motion on the vote with a reduced procedure, this is going to be our first vote, and I'm asking everyone to come into the room and take jobs. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act (7304 and 7304-1) we've considered a reduced procedure. And I'm asking all the national MPs to support this proposal. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote, please support, vote. [[16:08:25]] For the 120th. We didn't make it. I'll do it again. I see the MPs are coming up. I'll put them back up. My colleagues, once again, the issue of not only this law, the question of a whole series of daily bills: both the information block, and 3131, and 6007, and the question of children's rights. If we go into an hourly discussion, we won't be able to get through all the questions. I, my colleagues, am asking you to take up jobs, and this vote is going to model all of our work after lunch. So, colleagues, take up jobs. During the vote, please take your seats. And I'm asking you to support me, please take up jobs and support the proposal, review of Bill 7304 and Bill 7304-1 with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Please support me. [[16:09:47]] For-137 I'll do it again, finale. Please invite the deputies into the hall and ask the factions to mobilize the national MPs as much as possible. So, colleagues, take the jobs, go into the hall, I'll put it on the vote again, and I'm asking for her maximum support. Come into the hall, do not leave the hall, but come into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? I see all the factions are supporting, right? The deputies of the columns enter the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, get ready to vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to have Bill 7304 and Bill 7304-1 reviewed by a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and ask everyone to support it. I ask you carefully to vote, and I ask you to support me. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:11:31]] For-163 Decision taken. And we're moving on to the debate, and I'm inviting you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, we are considering an extremely important bill that aims to resolve the issue of housing for our people Ukrainians, displaced persons who lost their homes at the same time as fighting in eastern Ukraine. My bill, the bill of the Opposition Block, proposes to provide housing for officially registered displaced persons who do not have their own housing for living in a controlled Ukraine, as well as for people whose housing is destroyed or severely damaged by fighting in our eastern country. I would like to remind you that according to the UN, more than 40,000 homes have been damaged or destroyed as a result of fighting in Donbassa. In addition, the bill provides for children of displaced persons with disabilities, as well as persons with disabilities from the first and second groups, to be placed in the category of persons who will be given the right to receive apartments or one - apartment homes from the social security fund. Dear colleagues, this is a very good initiative. And we support both the government's initiative on this issue and my Bill 7304-1. We are only different from what we consider necessary to expand the community of people who would be able to receive housing from the Social Development Fund today. But there's a problem that the bill gives housing rights from the Social Security Fund, but there's a very large queue there, and people have been waiting years to get this housing. And that's why we're asking the government to look at a comprehensive human protection programme, so that it's a comprehensive solution to the issue of job provision, social protection and housing, and, first of all, to the budget today, the cost of repairing and rehabilitating damaged housing, which, unfortunately, is four years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u4	Unfortunately, in all four years in Ukraine, they still haven't started repairs today. Therefore, the Opposition Block supports these bills and we call on the House to unite, to make this decision and to move on in the resettlement program, and we demand that the Government first consider a comprehensive programme of protection and support for people who today need the attention of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u5	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban, and ŽKH Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u6	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, at its meeting on 07.02.2018, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Housing and Housing (Registration No. 7304), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the alternative draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Housing and Social Assignment on the Protection of Housing Rights of Internally Moved Persons (Registration No. 7304-1), submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine to the Royal and Solod. The purpose of drafting Bill 7304 is to regulate the issue of the granting of the right to take up social housing for internally displaced persons with disabilities. The purpose of the drafting of an alternative bill (registration number 7304-1) is to regulate the issue of granting the right to social housing to all internally displaced persons. In fact, there is a difference between two bills. In its conclusions from 06.12.2017 and from 08.12.2017, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office proposes that the first reading of the draft bills should revert to the subject's right to legislative initiative, taking into account the comments and proposals made. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption noted that there were no corruption factors in the projects. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of Bill No. 7304 to include in the agenda of the seventh session and to adopt, on the basis and in the drafting of the bill, the main provisions of the alternative bill (No. 7304-1) before being considered in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u7	Thank you. And the report invites Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambir Mikola Ivanovich. After that, it's a discussion. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u8	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Bill 7304 was designed by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Presidential Decree on measures to ensure the observance of the rights of persons with disabilities. These changes include an increase in the number of categories of persons who exercise the right to social housing, such as the granting of such rights to internally displaced persons with disabilities who do not have housing in an uncontrollable Ukrainian government. The draft act proposes that social housing should meet architectural and technical standards, sanitary requirements, building standards, standards and rules on accessibility for small-scale population groups. Not taking into account in the determination of the average monthly total income of the citizen and his family at the time of taking on social housing, the cost of property rights or property rights of the internally displaced person with disabilities and members of his or her family for immovable property located in the temporarily occupied territory, in the settlements located on the collision line or in the territory of which the authorities of the State have temporarily failed to exercise their authority, and in property that has been destroyed or has become unfit for residence as a result of an anti-terrorist operation. Children with disabilities, including internally displaced persons who do not have parents or whose parents are deprived of parental rights, also have the right to rent apartments or gardens, single - room housing units from the welfare fund. An internally displaced person with disabilities will add a copy of the claim to the social welfare account, in addition to the established documents, to the collection manual for the internally displaced person. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u9	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Waleria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u10	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! Today we talk a lot about the protection of Ukrainian citizens. At every international meeting that I'm at, we say very loudly that citizens who are residents of Donbas, the Crimea, are the same citizens as all other Ukrainians. But what are we doing? People don't have any protection. The people were forced to leave their homes and go looking for another fate because, first of all, the state was unable to protect them, and second of all, the state did nothing to provide them with the necessary housing. Today this issue is very acute, and all Ukrainian citizens need to realize that the next day it might happen to them as well, as it did to the Donbassians, who were forced to leave all their previous lives and go god-awful places in search of another better fate with children, with everything. Today, we see a very bad attitude toward the displaced because the need for assistance is not being met, and the pensioners are being openly abused. Our team, the Radical Party team, will fight and fight to ensure that every Ukrainian, every resident of Donbas, who left his previous life, is provided with housing, is provided with assistance from the state to ensure that all pensioners receive decent pensions. Because the residents of Donbas are Ukrainians like everyone else, and they don't have to be second-class people. I urge you to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u11	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u12	The President-in-Office of Ukraine, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, has been working for a number of years to see the bill of support, the protection of those who have lost everything as a result of military action, and actually begin their lives at first, to protect the social families of displaced persons. Unfortunately, very few laws are considered in this room. That's why the Opposition Block welcomes us today to consider at least one of the few laws in this room. The opposition bloc will support both the basic and the alternative bill we have introduced. Although we feel that our standards are being set, they are doing much better to address the problems that displaced families face. Unfortunately, only for a very small category of people and families will the basic law solve the problem of housing. In addition, projects do not provide evidence of the destruction or inadequacy of living in the ORDLO. I think for the second reading we'll be able to prepare the mine data and only then will we vote in general. And so I want to draw attention to the Ministry of Justice. Social housing projects should be made, and we should start talking about the social housing program for those internally displaced persons whose housing has been destroyed. So it's a complex program and a complex approach. And I think the question could then be solved. The faction will now vote in favour of both bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u13	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u14	Dear National Deputies, Vitaly Kurilo, Luhansk Region. Indeed, the question of internally displaced persons needs a comprehensive solution. But for today, perhaps the most difficult, most problematic question for those who have left the occupation zone is housing. And this problem needs to be solved at the state level. In four years, it's almost undecided, as they say, on the iota. And the bill, which is proposed, seems to find some ways to solve the problem for one of the categories of internally displaced persons, is to say disabled people, people with limited capabilities. At the same time, in my opinion, the bill does not take into account a number of details that may lead to us adopting just another law that will not solve any issues, and we will only complicate the problem, give people hope, but not give them a solution to the problem. In my view, this issue must first and foremost be addressed by the government through normative acts, including the Act on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. It seems to me that the law must be adopted in the first reading and seriously revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u15	Thank you. I actually want to emphasize that we are voting today just for the first reading. And I want to let you know that there's going to be a closing statement now, and then we're going through the voting. So in two or three minutes, there's going to be a vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And I'd like the secretariat to report that we're two minutes away from making a decision. And now I invite you to my word from Babak Olenna's Self-Help. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u16	Dear Ukrainians, the Self-Help Union supports the fact that people who are internally displaced today need support from the housing state. We realize that there are a lot of decisions that people are making, internally displaced today, or going from Donbas to unoccupied territory or not, or having people with disabilities in their family. And when they realize the burden of finding a place to live with such a person, our faction will certainly support this bill in order for people to decide to be here on the unoccupied part, and for children with disabilities to be with them to be provided with housing. Yet, the Self-Help Association wants to draw attention to both the initiators of the bill and the entire parliament that this is about social housing. Friends, what is social housing? It's begging. The position and philosophy of the Self-Help Union, so that Ukrainians can be the masters of their residence, have it in their possession. And the state has to provide affordable housing financing programs that people will buy for themselves. So today we are addressing everyone again from this rostrum. In order for the next half-year budget review to include as much as a billion dollars to increase the funding of affordable housing programmes for displaced persons, so that Ukrainians do not have beggars in social housing, but have their own housing, and are the real hosts in this country. That is why we support this initiative today. But we think it has to be fundamentally developed in the direction of creating conditions for Ukrainians to be masters of this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u17	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I urge all the national MPs to enter the hall, to take jobs, and to prepare for the decision. I ask the heads of factions to see which of the deputies is not present, and to invite them to the hall. Please take up jobs. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Invite a colleague. I'm going to put the basic bill on the ground first. If he doesn't get the votes, then he's an alternative. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act (No. 7304) on the basis of a committee proposal, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. First reading, 7304. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:32:39]] For 231 Decision taken. I hope the committee will prepare quickly for the second reading, and we will be able to review the law as a whole soon as possible. Now, attention, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I was approached by the head of the Committee on Information Affairs, so that before I put the laws on the table, I would conduct a rating vote to support them. I very much ask everyone to participate in the rating vote now. So I'm going to go first, and the next thing we're going to do is draft the Law on Electronic Communications (3549-1, 3549-3 and 3549-4). Now I'm running a rating vote so we don't get into a law that won't be supported. So whoever supports these laws, please vote and please take part in the rating vote. Each vote, please take part in the vote, please support, vote, ratings for support. Please vote, vote. [[16:34:00]] For-198 Next draft of the Radio Frequency Act of Ukraine (5051). He's not giving warnings at all, he's supporting all the factions. I, colleagues, am conducting a rating vote and I ask everyone to support the 5051 draft Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please support, we're voting carefully, please support. [[16:34:41]] For-163 Mr. Alexander, put it again, maybe you didn't get it? At the request of the committee, we are moving the issue of information to another day. Colleagues, then we won't make it to the oil. The author can take it off, the author can turn around and take it off. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues. The chairman of the committee for one minute. Please, Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, these are two dutiful bills that change the country. If you look at this area, 20 billion dollars in three years is the only area that has brought the budget. Bills are very important and we have no right to lose them. These are bills that change the country. As co-author of these bills, I have the right as the author of these bills to withdraw and postpone their consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u19	Thank you. Colleagues, we've had a discussion. Let's exchange our thoughts for a minute. Because we have a very simple situation. We're just not going to get to the next bill if we're going to be looking at drafts that don't have votes for for an hour. Please, after a minute of factions. Who has the desire to speak? In a minute. Front, please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u20	Andriy Volodymyrovich, I thank all the deputies for voting today before the break for the day-to-day inclusion of such impeccable bills to be adopted today, so that by June 1st, by the day of child protection, we could adopt such important bills that will increase the social protection of our children – the future generation. So I think we should now consider the following bills, three laws. And Justice Minister Paul Petrenko is present for this. And once again, I urge the entire room to support these laws so that by June 1, we can adopt these bills as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u21	Gerasims, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u22	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Peter Dustenk bloc supports the adoption of laws from the information block. But these are excessive laws for our nation. And we see that today we still need more advice to get these laws through the hall to get the required number of votes. So we support the authors' decisions not to consider them today, to hold further consultations and then to consider them in the hall when we clearly understand that these laws have a chance to pass the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u23	Thank you. Semenha, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u24	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The position of individual colleagues in Parliament is frankly surprising. Since it's not just the Radio Frequency Resource Act, it's a bill that's called on to create business conditions to significantly improve the coverage of mobile operators. Note what people are saying. What's happening today is 3G, 4G is a huge carpet cover problem not only in small villages, villages, but also on key highways, railway routes. It is this bill that introduces the possibility of exchanging operators within its own resources, to introduce technological neutrality. Colleagues, increasing by one percent of Internet penetration increases the national gross product by two tenths. Dear colleagues, this law is for people and for the economy of the country. Please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u25	Oleg Lazko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u26	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Anyone who uses a mobile phone in Ukraine knows how inconsequential, shameful it is. There's no way to talk in the center of Kiev. Sold in 4G corruption scheme, stole at least a hundred million dollars, put it in their pocket, 3G doesn't work, the phones don't work in the villages. And you're talking about the development of telecommunication. Full monopoly and full abuse. An illegal commission, an officer from the President, is in charge of this commission. The money from subscribers is scrapped, the services are most expensive in Europe for mobile use, and the quality of mobile communication, like sitting in one place, cannot be reached either by your mother or by your family or by your loved ones or by anyone you can reach. So we demand demonopolization, equal rules for all, improved communication quality, a new 4G tender, and the return of the hundreds of millions of dollars stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u27	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'll tell you my key logic is that if we go into laws that have no perspective right now, we're just going to have a business day destroyed. And then there are the laws on the Conciliation Council -- 3131, and 607 -- and protecting the rights of children. So let's, the committee asked the block to move, let's listen, listen to their position, and move on to the next issue of the agenda. So the next question is the order of the day 5627. This is a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to bring transit procedures into line with the Single Transit Regime Convention and the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods. And, colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, please support. [[16:41:56]] For-147 I'll put it again, but just take part in the vote, please, colleagues. Look at 5627, I'm asking you to support, colleagues, a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, every vote we vote carefully, please support, vote. [[16:42:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to see Capinus Evgen Valeriovich's report. Is there a room? First of all, I invite you to the report. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I will try to report to you on the substance of the bill, because there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance. It's a project. The draft law is prepared in accordance with paragraph 35 of the Plan of Action for the implementation of Chapter IV, "Trade and Trade-related Issues" of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and other member states, on the other hand, for 2016-2019, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 17.09. 2014 (published in the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 18.02. 2016), and to implement the Implementation Plan of the Convention on the Facilitation of Trade in Goods and the Convention on the Single Transit Regime, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 22.04.2015. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is to initiate a procedure for accession to the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods from 20 May 1987 and the Convention on the Single Transit Regime from 20 May 1987. The Committee believes that the legislative initiatives listed will contribute to the fulfilment of Ukraine's international legal obligations and initiate procedures for Ukraine's accession to the convention. At the committee meeting, members of the committee also pay attention to the following. In accordance with paragraphs 1.1 and 2.1 of the Action Plan for the Implementation of EU Legislation Approved by the Cabinet, the accession to the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods and the Convention on the Single Transit Regime should begin with the implementation and publication of the official translation of the texts of the Convention on the Single Transit Regime and the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u29	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u30	Since the main reporter is about to arrive at the hall, it is concluded that after considering the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted on the basis of a second reading to further develop everything that could be done. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also wrote about the fact that the bill could be adopted on the basis of their comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Beneath Gennady, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u32	Good afternoon, dear friends! Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Okay, first of all. Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you very much to pay attention to our colleagues coming into the hall, so we see that pretty low quantity, and to focus on that. The People's Front faction will support this bill, so I ask everyone to focus on it and take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u33	Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u34	Dear voters, for 27 years we've been simplifying formalities, simplifying formalities, but no fight against smuggling has produced results. There is no increase in trade with partner countries, Ukraine is losing its position abroad in world markets. At the same time, our fellow countrymen are barely living, earning a meager salary, receiving a meager pension, and a meager social assistance. They've just been looking at a bill that decides the fate of only 67,000 of our displaced people who have fled from the war that is on the unoccupied part of our country, and we can't find the money to solve their social housing issues. We've been here for months to fight for real, real social initiatives. In particular, our Bill 6677 on the Second Level of Pension Insurance, which will save the entire Ukrainian nation, the entire Ukrainian people from survival and the animals, in 20-25 years' time, a generation of Ukrainians who are now 20-25 years old who will retire later. We demand Thursday to consolidate coalition efforts and opposition and to accept this extremely important pro-European, fully effective social initiative. I am asking you, Mr. Head, to speak with the Prime Minister of the country, with the faction leaders, we have found harmony, we have agreed on all the norms, all the contentions, all the positions of the issue and put this extremely important social pension bill to the first reading. It will enable middle-aged people to retire with a decent pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u35	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a closing statement if no one else does. And in two minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. So I ask the factions to invite all the national MPs to the hall as much as possible. I now give the floor to Semensi Romano Sergiyovich, who gives the floor to Ostrikovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, the bill proposes the introduction in Ukraine of such customs declarations, which are in line with the European Union Declarations, for a common transit procedure for trade in goods between Ukraine and the Contracting Parties, States that are parties to the Convention on a common transit regime. Do you understand what this means: a common transit regime? This means that we will see how declarations are closed when goods are exported from the EU. And that means that, including our European states, which are members of the convention, will see all the interrupted transits, all the schemes and abuses that are taking place with the transit regime here in Ukraine. And we know what a huge scheme this could give a resource to the budget. What you want to notice. In order for us to join this convention, Ukraine has to do some homework, namely, build IT infrastructure, build a new computerized system that will provide online access to this transit system. And only then can we be invited to join this convention. And to date, I want to mark the very low level of work of the State Fiscal Service, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, which should work together to develop this automated system on a common transit regime. And they're practically not doing that today. And the second question that you want to raise. Today we vote for it in the first reading. Because this includes Euro-integration. This is a breakdown of our obligations under the EU Association Agreement. But we are voting with you for a convention that is not officially translated into Ukrainian! I have a question: Who in Ukraine today is responsible for the official translation of the documents? That's why we're voting now. But we demand that this convention be translated into Ukrainian and that, in voting the amendments to the Customs Code in the second reading, this bill. So that each MP can get to know each other and have the opportunity to speak his own language.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. And please prepare to make a decision. So, colleagues, I think I can hear clearly enough. Now please go back to work. This is a law, one of the laws that is in our road map of the bills necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to bring transit procedures in line with the Convention on the Single Transit Regime and the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods No. 5627, on the basis only of the basis. Colleagues, I ask you all to support me, please take part in the vote and vote on the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:52:52]] For 185 We didn't make it. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, please show the factions. And I ask you to mobilize as much as possible, colleagues, by factions, especially members of the Committee on European Integration as members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Please invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible. Please show the factions again. Please. "Block of Petra Prashenko" – 81, "National Front" – 50, "self-help" – 15, Party of Laška – 11, "Fathership" – 8, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. Colleagues, an important European integration law. I'm asking everyone, I'm asking you to support everyone as much as possible. So I'm voting on the proposal that we draft Law 5627 so that we can go back to its consideration. And I ask your support, and I ask you to vote in favour of the return to debate 5627. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:54:11]] For a hundred and Colleagues, what if I put it on the committee for work, it'll be supported? The discussion is over. Colleagues, let's give the committee's head one minute. I'm asking you not to leave the hall at that time, colleagues, don't leave the hall. Please, Eugene, one minute. And I'll put it back again. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, this bill is included in the road map for European integration. You know, my colleague just said that the bill was actually drafted in some way. But I'm asking you to send at least one more time to the committee, give it a chance, we'll work it out. Because our projects, which we were obliged to consider and accept for a long time, cannot fail. So let's work together on the committee and get back to the hall in the near future for the first time again. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to return to the committee's proposal as a basis. If there are no votes, then I'll put an offer on the committee for further work. I ask you to mobilize and please take part in the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 5627 before its vote on the basis, please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support. Vote. Every voice matters. Please be supportive. [[16:56:11]] For 196 I have a question. Will the proposal for further work be supported? Will the next proposal be made to the committee for further work? Colleagues, I'm putting forward the next proposal that the Rules provide, draft Law 5627, to refer to the committee for re-reading. On the committee for re-reading, so we don't lose the bill. Please vote, please support for re-reading the first reading. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:57:01]] For 196 I am proposing to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. But I'm really asking all the deputies, some factions don't vote. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Authors, do the work on the hall. The next suggestion is that the draft Law 5627 should return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, and I ask your support, colleagues, to vote, and please support. Vote. [[16:57:50]] For 197 Let's see the factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 59, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 10, "will of the people" – 3, "Rebirth Party" – 4. It seems to me that we can make a positive decision on either the committee or the subject of the legislative initiative. Just tell me, colleagues who didn't vote, which offer would you support. Let me put it again on the committee, they say it can unite the hall. So I'm going to all the factions and groups. And don't leave the hall. I'm going to put Bill 5627 on the committee again for the first reading. Just so we don't lose the bill, colleagues, let's support it. Let's take the jobs and support them all. So once again, I'm putting 5627 on the committee for the first time again. And I ask everyone to support and vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:59:26]] For-198 Draft Law 5627 has been rejected. Colleagues, let's face it, I'm going to put the ratings vote ahead of time so we don't put the bills at risk. I'm going to put a rating vote before the law and I'm going to ask you to prepare. The next draft of the Act on Recognition of Unvalidity, some of the laws of Ukraine regarding State regulation of production and implementation of sugar (4532). I'm running a rating vote for support. Please participate in the rating vote and please support 4532. Please take part in the rating vote and please support. Vote 4532, vote. [[17:00:20]] For-179 The decision is not taken. 607: Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Transfer of Property to State and Municipal Property). This was raised by the head of the Dubnevich Committee, and it refers to those areas of the road that are not state-owned, but in the Ministry of Education, so that they are owned by the Ministry of Infrastructure and can be properly cared for by government authorities. Rating vote, please support, please vote 607. Rating vote, please vote. [[17:01:13]] For-153 153, Mr. Jaroslav. 3131: Draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of National Property Objects (No. 3131). Please vote, please support, rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:01:56]] For-170. My colleagues told me that all the factions supported this bill. Colleagues, I'm going to redraft Law 3131, vote, please vote, please support, please support, rating vote, please support. [[17:02:34]] For-179 Colleagues, the following 8114: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists (8114). The rating vote. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Vote. [[17:03:11]] For-179 Next, 6350: draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of maternity leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care. Come on, colleagues, let's support this bill. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and vote. 6350 – rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:03:55]] For 199 Can we come in? Colleagues, we'll have time to gather people. Okay, let's think about it, I'll put the next one in. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws prohibiting the use of palm oil in food production (3871). The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:04:39]] For 202 We can go in, right? Then let's do it, fellows. Let's do it. And I ask the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible. The bill has now received the greatest support (3871). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:05:16]] For-167 Decision taken. I invite you to the report by author Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. And, colleagues, after this bill, we're moving on to a cluster of issues related to child protection. I now ask convincingly all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of people, MPs to invite them into the hall, after this law, we move on to the children's rights block. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Finally, Parliament came to consider a vital Act banning palm oil from being used in dairy products, in foodstuffs. Today, more than 200,000 tons of palm oil were imported into Ukraine last year. They sting, they sell some sort of product to people. Then people work in pharmacies and hospitals. Ukrainian peasants cannot implement milk, they cut cows, because instead of quality natural Ukrainian milk in shops, palm - oil dairy products. Our team, and I hope that Parliament will support this very important agricultural development, for the restoration of livestock in the village, for Ukrainian families, for the preservation of the lives and health of Ukrainians, will support a bill banning the use of palm oil in dairy products, in the food industry. Our children should drink quality Ukrainian milk, not the dagger that is being digested by the Ukrainian nation today. The ban on palm oil will allow milk to grow, allow farmers to earn more, feed their families. The main thing is to protect the health and life of Ukrainians. Because palm oil consumption is a direct route to oncology, cardiovascular disease, cancer and cemetery. I want Ukrainians to live long, happy and quality lives and to eat quality Ukrainian agricultural products. Enough to feed the Ukrainian nation, enough to earn billions in the lives and health of Ukrainian citizens. Many countries around the world have banned the use of palm oil, and I suggest you do the same in Ukraine, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u41	Thank you. The word for the report is given from the Professional Committee on Law Enforcement. Dear colleagues, who will speak from the committee? Please, Mr. Palamarczuk, allow me to have a word with you. Dear Mr. Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u42	The committee at its meeting had considered the bill carefully and had decided to recommend that the bill should be redrafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mikola, for presenting the committee's position in such a concise manner. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. I am very much asking during the discussion to speak on the subject of the bill. I remind you, we're discussing the ban on the use of palm oil in food production, not something else. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. He is given the word of the national deputy Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u44	Now, I'd like to turn to millions of our fellow countrymen, those who hold cows in the villages, those who, at the expense of these cows, are actually saved from starving to death. In my mother three cows, three cows, she gives milk like all, millions of ordinary people living in villages. Milk is collected at times by 3.5 bracelets, sometimes by 4.5 bracelets. Here's a bottle of water, it's worth 30 bucks, 30 bucks, and it's made. The water that is produced or extracted is completely out of our country. It's a violation of the national economy, of the country's agriculture, that our simple peasants are actually forced by the monopoly of small businesses, because of the pressure from the outside to give milk at such a price. This destroys rural households, which leads to the fact that there is no savings in a simple peasant family to cure teeth in order to make appendicitis. What is more, you have introduced a virtually capitalistic liberal model of the medical system, which today forces a simple Ukrainian family to pay for services that should still be foreseen, which should still be foreseen, because this simple person pays taxes, pays excise duties. Each time you skin three skins each step from a simple Ukrainian family. And even now in this room, when I speak for the village, for the agriculture, for its rescue, for the agriculture, part of the deputies who belong to the coalition, they interrupt me and they won't let me speak up to the common peasants. We demand that this beautiful bill be voted on. We're supposed to consolidate, if we have to, continue our work until the end of the day, but vote. It's more important than the Constitution, it's more important than your goddamn budget. This is the future of our village and a simple peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u45	Dear Mr. Capplin, you're hard to break, believe me, but the Constitution is important. Thank you for your position. The Constitution is the most important, the Constitution is the most important. It's from the main Ukrainian law. And please have a word. I got it. Please, now, the word of Yuri the Merchant. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u46	Dear voters, dear colleagues, what do you think we're going to be chosen here for, and what do people expect us to do? It would seem that the issue of palm oil may not be the most resonant, is not politicized, is not what they will be talking about in the news today. But at the same time, the problem is very serious: the problem of a domestic producer. They're talking about peasants. I'm going to add to the processing industry, the food industry that today is forced to adapt to the dumping prices associated with the use of this palm oil. But we have to understand and support and protect our consumers, every one of our citizens that goes, buying, thinking it's milk, that it's sausage, that's some other food, and it's not really what's written on it. In some lands, even palm oil is a toxic substance that actually harms the health of our citizens. And by using it every day, we provide in fact a huge number of health problems for our citizens. So I would like to invite all of us, understanding the importance of adopting this bill and allowing our industry, our manufacturers, and, above all, all of our citizens to live in a country where there is no harm to health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Yvchenko is invited to the word from Fatherland. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u48	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, the use of palm oil is a matter of national health. On the other hand, it's an economic issue. Palm oil is used where milk, natural milk, is to be used. And we have a situation where we have important things -- whether it's the health of the nation or whether it's business. So let me tell you, this is a slow-acting bomb. Sooner or later, people who use palm oil receive cancer, heart disease, and other serious diseases. It's a question of the survival of the nation. Now, let's give you an example. Every year we increase the import of palm oil into Ukraine by 10 percent. From which countries? Indonesia, Honduras, Malaysia In what countries is palm oil banned? Palm oil is banned in all Scandinavian countries, three in the United States. In 8 countries, the European Union is severely controlled. In France it is also forbidden. In Iceland, the use of palm oil will have been phased out since 2018. Are we going to Europe? So please, once and for all, let's show that we have the opportunity today to work out the responsibility of those producers who are supposed to use natural products and not mask them under different colors, administrative and criminal responsibility. And using such products is natural for our nation to really be healthy. And finally, I want to say that this bill proposes amendments to the Administrative and Criminal Code. We will greatly increase the responsibility of those who use palm oil and abuse the health of every citizen. Please support the foundation and we will work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u49	Thank you. Please come from Peter Dustenk's Block, Kaplin has been speaking. There was no talk from the Radical Party. Please, Andrew Lozova. I'm sorry, Mr. Rosenblatt, I'm sorry. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u50	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Let those deputies who do not vote in favour of this bill be cursed. Maybe someone just doesn't understand the importance of this question, what palm oil is. In 2011, researchers at Stanford University conducted research that clearly showed that in countries where palm oil is allowed to be used, there is a much higher death rate in cardiovascular diseases, including, unfortunately, in our home Ukraine, where people die because of indifference, because the Council has not yet adopted this historically important bill. Myocardial infarction, diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, acute hypertension, slag and toxin killing, varicose disease, diarrhea, gastritis, colitis are all the effects of palm oil. For God’s sake, support this bill for the sake of your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u51	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to acceptance. It's from the deputies. Head, please, one minute. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, there were very few voices. All right, Head, one minute, Easy, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please, Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u52	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Dear MPs, colleagues! It's a very good bill. I urge you to support him and vote. Because, indeed, the developed, civilized countries of Europe and the world are banning palm oil, from which the mass of diseases, including cancer, is banned. Today, we must protect the health of our nation, our society. Instead of stimulating the village's actual milk production in a natural way and stimulating it, lending small and medium-sized businesses, small farming, the fact that peasants would have a place to dispose of milk at a high price, at a good price, not that they are today leading the village to poverty. So that's what the law does. So our job is to support it. To support the peasants, to allow quality milk to go to markets, to shops. That is why we call for the support of this law and for the protection of the interests of Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u53	Thank you. One minute, Oleg Lazko. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the hall to prepare for the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support the bill banning palm oil. The ban on palm oil is jobs for Ukrainian peasants, it's income for rural families, it's opportunity for farmers to feed their children. The ban on palm oil is the development of Ukrainian national production and the Ukrainian economy. And the key. The ban on palm oil is the preservation of the life and health of Ukrainian citizens. It is impossible for profit to poison people with a dagger of import! Animal welfare, job creation, the future of Ukrainian children, the health and well - being of the Ukrainian nation must be restored. Only then will Ukraine be a powerful, powerful, independent, self - sufficient state. Only then will we be respected in the world when we care for our citizens, for the health of our children, for the future of our country, for the development of our economy. That's enough moaning, you have to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u55	And I was told that the Opposition Block didn't have a word. One minute, Igor Shurma. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, what is palm oil? Palm oil is a disaster, a disaster for people. Palm oil is evil because it harms both the adult and the small. Palm oil is a tragedy because palm oil starts feeding everyone and everything. This is the product that people have to buy because palm oil products are cheap. And he who has no money buys it and digests himself and his family. We have to say, get the palm oil out of Ukraine. The opposition block clearly supports this initiative, and we think that today the session hall should unite. We can't make Ukraine an area of self-recycling, because people will die from palm oil, and no one will protect from it. Get out the palm oil, and we're voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u57	So the discussion is over. Colleagues, well, it's just, we've already finished the discussion, we've already finished it twice. I'll give you my word next. So, please take up jobs, get ready for the vote. We're moving on to making a decision. Every voice matters. And that's why I'm asking. Who Is in the Lie? You won't make it. I'm asking you to come in from the bed. Mr. Yuri, let's vote and then you can continue the discussion. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to prohibit the use of palm oil in food production (No. 3871). Only on a basis will we be able to work on the second reading. Please vote, please support me as a base. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[17:22:27]] For 222 I see they haven't made it in. Colleagues, I'll put you back. Please take up jobs. I'll put it on return only. I say it a few times when I vote. Please take up jobs. I'll make my first offer to come back. I see they're going into the hall. My first suggestion is to go back to the draft Law 3871. Everyone, please prepare for the vote and please take part in the vote. First vote to return to 3871. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please support the return. Carefully, every voice I ask you to support. Every voice on the scale. Vote. [[17:23:37]] For 241 We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 3871 on the ground. Please vote, please support me as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote carefully, every vote. We're voting on the basis. [[17:24:01]] For 233 Decision taken. Who supports the simplified procedure and preparation for second reading? Who Supports? I ask you to vote on the summary procedure. Please vote. [[17:24:29]] For-153 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that three bills have already been prepared by the Apparatus and the Committees to protect the rights of children. They're given to you. Everyone has them on their hands. In the morning we voted to accept them today, and this is the only chance we have for us to be able to look at them by June 1. So let's move on to the children's rights cluster. The first is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for those who care for sick children (8294). We have 35 minutes of time and three laws. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:25:30.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please. And I'm going to ask all the reporters as concisely as possible so that we can go through three laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u58	Respectful colleagues, sadly, are not always provided with adequate and dignified social guarantees and with the assistance of the State. Such effective legislation does not provide for those who care for sick children whose disability has not yet been established. Such parents are left on their own with their own hardships, since they cannot go on vacation without saving their wages for the care of a sick child, this is a six - to - eight - month vacation. They do not receive State aid, nor do they receive social and pension insurance for the period of care of a sick child at a time when he or she develops disability. This is why Parliament has introduced draft registration number 8294, aimed at strengthening the social protection of those who care for severely ill children with severe perinatal damage to the nervous system, rare orphan diseases, cancers, cerebral palsy, severe psychological disorders, first type diabetes, acute or chronic kidney disease of the fourth type, and children who have suffered severe trauma need organ transplants or palliative care. The goal is to achieve the goal of expanding the number of diseases that are granted the right of the person to leave without saving the salary to reach a child who needs home care, a 16-year-old, and a list of cases where the person is given leave without saving his salary until the age of 18 years. Providing job security guarantees for a child’s care period, establishing a separate form of government assistance for families with sick children at a minimum cost for a child of appropriate age for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u59	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u60	For a period when she has a disability. Providing compulsory pension guarantees to one of the unemployed family members who care for the sick child The adoption of the bill will allow parents of seriously ill children to go through bureaucratic procedures and establish disability and to benefit from the necessary benefits. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u61	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the committee, Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich. And I'm asking in a very concise way, because we're just not going to make it. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u62	The committee considered the bill, and the co-author fully reported on its features and positive effects for children and mothers. And we recommend adopting this bill as a whole, on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u63	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u64	Give the chapel a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u65	Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u66	For the mother, for the children, for the bill! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u67	Thank you. Janko Anton, from Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, well, really, I'm sure that this room will not involve a man who is against this law, who needs immediate acceptance and support. But I want to point out that we still have this problem, which is that the diseases that Mrs. Lucenko listed, we also have to take them into account when we're redesigning the budget when children are being treated. Because today, unfortunately, the state does not fully finance and treat children, and we are the only country in Europe that does not provide today's 100% funding for childhood diseases. So I would very much ask them to support this law now and then work with the authors to increase funding for the treatment of these children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u69	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Natalia Kraljevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, we certainly support this bill as well as the rest of the bills aimed at protecting motherhood and childhood, especially the protection of children with special needs. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for more than a year now, in Parliament, there is no Bill 6063-d and 6510 on the support of a unanimous committee of profile. Mr. Speaker, honourable members of the coalition, we very much ask you to consider these child-protective bills and the protection of children who have suffered in the east of our country. Today in the Council, many of you were approached by representatives of the National Platform Women for Peace, these are many children's mothers. And it's probably the first time that the signatures under the draft decree came from all the factions of this Parliament. And that's why it's going to be registered today. This decree is aimed at protecting motherhood and childhood in our country. I'm also calling on the speaker to consider this order on the day of June 1st, so that the whole country will hear that Parliament returns to the children's faces, that not only are we today speaking, not just individual categories, but we are ready today to support mothers, children, to support those not thanks, but, contrary to the support of the state, to give birth, raise and believe in our Fatherland. Because today Moms are really doing everything they can to raise a child, feed, send him to a garden, and school. And I am confident that, regardless of our political views, we can unite in order to adopt such necessary child - protection, family - protection, and family protection laws. Also, I want to welcome all the families in Ukraine today with the world of families! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u71	The People's Front is Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u72	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, the People's Front will definitely support this legislative initiative. This legislative initiative refers to that package, which is a continuation of a social package aimed at protecting the rights of the child in our country. And what I'm saying is that this bill is designed to really provide for those mothers who are left alone today with the problem of a child needing treatment and the state is unable to even provide them with continuous leave until they reach the age of sixteen and actually have the ability to treat such a child. But there are many other cases where such a child is actually left alone and the father of a sick child is leaving her alone, and the mother is left alone. So to date, we have adopted the first package of legislative changes that are already in operation, and more than 400 children who are effectively deprived of parental care have received their alimony obligations. I think today we're going to go to other legislative changes that will also be supported by this Parliament. So to this day, we propose to support this legislative initiative. I suggest we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u73	Thank you. And a closing statement from Self-Help, Roman Semenich. In a minute, we're going to vote. I ask you to invite all the national deputies into the hall, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Roman Semenicha, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u74	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, our faction will support this legislative initiative. However, I point out that I propose to vote only on the first reading. We need you to adopt quality laws that will be implemented in practice. So I'm going to read those comments that, in my view, have to be taken into account in preparing for second reading. First. The legislative initiative does not regulate the cessation of payment. Regrettably, there are no consequences for the purposeless use of child welfare. And unfortunately, the bill does not determine how long the aid and the periodicity of such payments are paid. These standards are key, colleagues, from the point of view of implementation of this project and must be taken into account, or we will face the very low quality of implementation of this law. So please support in the first reading, refinement, and then accept as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u75	Thank you. I just want to point out that I'm just going to put it on the ground. And this is the position and the ministry, this is the position and authors to just base it today. But I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're done here. And I'm asking you to maximize your mobility and take over the jobs of all the national MPs. Colleagues, it's a question of children, and it's not a question of politics, so let's get back from the government's beds and take part in the vote. Don't leave the hall! Turn back, please. So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for people who care for sick children as a basis. 8294 on the ground. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:36:27]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, it's no less important now. A brief procedure for preparing for second reading so that we can vote next Thursday. I ask you to take care of your jobs. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall, I said! Go back to the hall, now the next proposal is a review of draft Law 8294 under reduced procedure and second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. So we can get to Child Protection Day. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:37:11]] For 219 I'll do it again. 219. Return to the hall. Return the deputies to who they are. There are six votes missing. I want to remind you what the logic is: so that we can get by June 1st, by the Day of Child Protection, to adopt laws in general. We base them, and that's the right position, the right, the right position. But in order for us to arrive, it is important for us to consider a simplified procedure from the second reading. So please prepare and vote for the proposal. Let's vote, short-circuited procedure for second reading. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:38:01]] For 225 I'll do it again. I see they haven't made it, I'll put one vote again. But I turned around, this logic is happening, I see, yes. Get ready, please. I'm once again putting in draft Law 8294, a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote. Please support, support, colleagues. We'll support the kids. Please vote. Vote. Every voice, we vote carefully. [[17:38:43]] For 243 Decision taken. Next draft of Law 8295, amending articles 165 and 166 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Please support the motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:39:12]] For 190 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, in order not to waste too much time, I will briefly say the essence of this bill. It's made up of two parts. First: we have children who receive alimony from parents of Ukrainian residents and non-residents of Ukraine Children who receive alimony from Ukrainian residents, do not include this income, tax does not include this payment in their income, they are not taxed accordingly. And the money that comes from nonresidents in Ukraine is included in income and taxed. What do we suggest in this case? Do not include in the income of such a natural person the receiving of alimony from a nonresident and balance children and those in whom parents are resident or nonresidents in their rights and do not tax such benefits in this case. And the next moment. At the same time, we have another moment. The project proposes to expand the possibilities of compensating part of the cost spent by the payer for education. So far, it's already possible to compensate for part of the cost when it comes to secondary vocational and technical education and higher education. At the same time, for example, the State and the State network of preschool institutions cannot ensure the realization of the right of such children to free education to all who are willing. I'll give you an example and statistics. Today, 52,000 children are in line in children’s kindergartens in Ukraine, taking into account children’s institutions of all forms of property. In addition, the vast number of groups, sports sections, and courses are paid. Information about free groups, sections, and others is not available, even where they are not available, and parents at their own expense are buying up inventory, office supplies, and everything they need to provide additional educational services.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u77	One minute, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u78	Remuneration is paid to trainers and teachers, and other costs are borne by sections, groups, and others. What is proposed? The bill proposes to expand the possibilities of compensating part of the money spent by the payer on education. In an annual income, the annual expenses paid by such families are proposed to exclude the amount of money that such parents have spent in order for the child to go to a paid kindergarten, to receive some additional educational skills and competences. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to uphold this very important social law and support our children. We remember that there are no foreign children in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u79	Thank you, Reverend Irina Stepanovna. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Nina Southanini. Mrs. Nina, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, today at a committee meeting, we have considered this bill, which consists literally of two paragraphs of the amendment to two articles of the Tax Code. During the discussion of the bill, the MPs expressed their opinion and supported the exemption from the taxation of foreign alimony received by the parents of the child. At the same time, according to the second part of the bill, the granting of a tax discount on preschool and extra-school private education, without limiting the size of such a discount, could lead to privileged incentives for a particular sector of the economy and inequality between taxpayers. In order to prevent this, it was proposed to set a limit for the amount of tax deductions for private education in the bill of 15 minimum wages set for 1 January of the reporting year for the calendar year. In this connection, the committee decided to propose paragraph 2 of the bill in a new edition, which I am announcing under the transcript. Paragraph 166.3.3., paragraph 166. Article 3 of Article 166 reads as follows: "The amount of money paid, i.e. the taxpayer's right to a tax discount. Next. At the expense of the fees paid by the taxpayer for the benefit of the national higher and vocational technical institutions to compensate for the cost of obtaining secondary or higher education of such a taxpayer and/or a member of his family in the first degree of relationship, as well as the amount of the fees paid by the payer for the benefit of pre-school, extra-school, general secondary education to compensate for the cost of obtaining such education by the members of his family of the first degree of relationship that does not exceed (in the calculation for the calendar year) 15 times the minimum wage set for 1 January of the reporting year."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u81	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u82	It is with this clarification that the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill No. 8295 as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. I ask my colleagues to sign up for this bill, please. Please, Roman Semenach gives the word to Mrs. Ostrich. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, at the part where the bill suggests that alimony from nonresidents should not be taxed on the income of the individual, this would have to be done long ago in order to eliminate this discrimination. In the part where it's proposed to include in the tax reduction the cost of education, especially for preschool and preschool education, these are very good changes. Because today people are often asked to have a baby in a nursery. It turns out that when the baby goes into the nursery, when it's still in the maternity home, it's time for the mother to sign up for some kind of electron. As a result of the changes voted on the so - called reform of education today, people who cannot send their children to school rather than to register. And often at the place of registration, the school is either unprofiled or not as quality as the other. As a result of these changes, people today are forced by national MPs to take their children to school. Of course, if a person has a choice, he goes and pays for a child’s private education. And you don't have to say here that all private schools are very expensive. The point is that we're here offering a tax discount to include not only school expenses but also gardens that often have private gardens that are not that expensive. And for preschool education, when parents invest in the development of their child, in language learning, in sports, in art. And I think it's very important for such parents to give them some extra incentive, including allowing them to include it in a tax discount. And we also support, in order to avoid any abuse, that it's there for some expensive private educational institutions, we support the setting of a limit on the amount of expenses that can be attributed to a tax discount. Please support all of you in the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u85	Thank you. Please welcome Yuri Miroshnichenko to the floor. Yuri Miroshnichenko is invited to speak. Debtenko's got a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u86	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The Opposition Block faction will support a bill that deals with the exclusion of clauses that directly relate to the taxation of discriminatory, to my deep belief, alimony that is paid by the non-resident. Instead, the question of setting limits to 15 minimum wages for preschool and secondary education is quite controversial and raises questions such as ours. Why? Because the norm currently in force in the Ukrainian Tax Code, namely article 166.3.3, of the Ukrainian Tax Code, is designed to support the State's vocational education and higher education institutions. In particular, people who study in these institutions will get the right to a tax discount, but we all know that this is usually a state and communal form of property. It is now proposed that we distribute the indicated indirect public support to private institutions. Is it good or bad? It's probably a good thing, but in any case, this piece of legislation makes it unequal to the analogous institution of municipal and state ownership, because they're actually going to be uncompetitive compared to private institutions. So I have a proposal for the next act. Perhaps to vote on the basis of the bill, we support it by faction, with the need to make an appropriate proposal, perhaps with a shorter deadline for making proposals, but still on the basis, not in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u87	Thank you. I'll put it that way: just as a base. But I'm going to ask you to support the simplified procedure for preparing for the second reading, so I'm going to set it up. So, colleagues, I'm asking you very nicely, if you please, from the Petar Dust Block, Sugonako. Please, Alexander Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, need to support this bill, but taking into account the comments that are made only in the first reading and work on the second reading to be accepted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u89	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing act. From the People's Front of the Anointed. And then we go to the vote. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. And I'm asking the factions to maximize their ability to mobilize a special warehouse. So, Anointed Andrew, the closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u90	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, this is certainly a positive legislative initiative, because, indeed, the discriminatory norm that has been in place all this time with regard to the taxation of non-resident alimony must be abolished. But a more important norm is one that will really allow our parents who raise two, three or even one child, and requires their child to develop in a comprehensive way, wants it to develop, but does not have the ability because of any kind of reform that makes it impossible to form a child either in a garden or in a first class, and has to go to private schools and pay money, it can pay off the corresponding percentages for itself, in order to then give that child up for another pre-school education. Perhaps the child wants to develop, to engage in sports, and perhaps the child wants to engage in music, perhaps other activities. It is this legislative act that will allow parents who do not have the capacity to choose, either to engage in sports or to engage in creative activities, to actually implement their child in many ways. So to this day, dear colleagues, we have no choice but to give our votes for this legislative act, but I am against those restrictions that have been read by the committee's head today, because we have to pay back completely everything that parents have to spend on what the state can't provide. That's why I, my esteemed colleagues, propose to vote, support, but no restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u91	So the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. So I ask everyone to return to the Hall, and I put to the vote the draft Law amending articles 165 and 166 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (No. 8295). Colleagues, just on the basis, and under the reduced procedure of consideration for second reading. And I ask everyone to be very careful about voting and I ask you to support 8295 as a basis, and a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[17:53:35]] For 226 The decision has been taken, and a reduced preparation procedure has already been adopted. And, colleagues, the final law from this bloc, this is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on creating economic preconditions to strengthen the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance -- 8296 and 8296-1. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[17:54:15]] For 196 Decision taken. I'm continuing for 15 minutes, but I'm still asking all of the reporters to be as brief as possible in the discussion as possible, because we're going to lose votes. So I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Seminohe Roman Sergiyovich. Mr. Roman, you're a reporter. Report an alternative, yes, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u92	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! In fact, today we have terrible divorce statistics in Ukraine. Close to each other, they divorce. So this bill is really about protecting the rights of millions of children. But this bill also protects the rights of millions of parents, and I stress that both parents. In fact, our bill is not as much an alternative as it is complementary, expanding, since it has to deal with much more issues related to the protection of the rights of children and both parents after the divorce. In particular, our bill strengthens the responsibility for failing to pay alimony to sick children in the form of the assignment of community service when parents are owed alimony. However, the parent with whom a sick child resides is entitled to decide for himself whether or not to leave the child abroad if the debt is available. Our bill contains an impeccable, series of impeccable positions. In particular, it aims to ensure that both parents have the right to participate in the child’s upbringing after divorce. In particular, it regulates meetings with a child, removes obstacles that one parent may face. For example, if one party with whom the child resides makes an obstacle to the other party’s encounter with the child, it is temporarily restricted to going abroad, fines may also be applied to it. In addition, if one parent pays alimony, paid alimony voluntarily, and then made a decision to make a coercion, the alternative bill provides an opportunity to document previous payments in order to avoid double-counting of debts over past periods. Our draft law also improves the procedures for determining the size of alimony in court, regulates the standards of control over the purposeful use of funds. From this rostrum, I want to thank you for drafting this bill to the public organization "Father Has the Right." And thanks to her, I think that colleagues, even if the basic law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u93	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u94	It's going to be supported in the first reading, and I'm going to point out that the sounding parts of the rules, on the other hand, are going to reinforce the bill. So I'm going to the committee, and I'm going to ask the MPs to take these positions into account in preparing for the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u95	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk! Let's call Ivanchuk together. Yes. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends of the people's deputies, I very much ask all present in this room to vote in favour of Bill 8296. Because I believe that everyone here is present as I am, as is the head of Parliament, as is the minister of justice, and we are all united by just one credo, that there are no strangers. So I ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u97	Thank you. Now two in a row, two in a row. And I'm asking you very carefully. And invite the deputies to the hall. I just saw a few deputies come out. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And two, in, two, against. So it's very short. Pauline Yuri. Turn on the microphone, please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u98	In support of the idea of such a bill, it is worth noting that all the actions of recent years to improve child support alimony payments are virtually out of the question for children deprived of parental care. Of the more than 70,000 orphans, children deprived of parental care, according to the M.O., 30 percent are biological orphans, all others are deprived of parental care for minor exclusions of children whose parents are not set up. That is why we support the adoption of the bill in the first reading. At the same time, he needs serious second reading work, and we will make adjustments. In addition, we stress that increasing responsibility for alimony failure requires increasing responsibility for failure to accept parenthood. Mr. Minister, I've asked you repeatedly for information on the number of births registered each year on the basis of the National Civil Status Register. These include applying a series of articles of the Family Code that apply to parental arrangements when parents are not married. Sadly, he has not received such information to this day, but it is vital that this law be fully worked out. In addition, Mr. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to Cabinet Order 856, especially paragraph 57, by which the Cabinet of Ministers has effectively blocked the procedure for granting child-orphan status, "children deprived of parental care." According to the case-law of the Ministry of Justice, this item is illegal and, at the same time, the Ministry of Justice is blocking the amendment of this decision. I hope it's the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u99	Thank you. Irina Lucenko's "Peter Prashenko Block" and I'd like to ask for a moment. And, colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, see who's not here, and call, and invite you to the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, please listen to me carefully, we propose to support Bill 8296. With great respect for the author of the bill, Ruslan Sergiyovich, it is his one-off bill that complements our basic balanced bill with little rights. We will be preparing now and I am very grateful to him for the standards he has taken into account, in addition to those that we have not reached in our discussion. But we're going to be preparing a third big block where our self-help representative's standards will go, and we're going to suggest that we vote in favour of Bill 8296, and those standards that have entered Bill 8296-1, we're going to count in the third block. I invite him to the authorship then, and then we will be very happy to support him. Dear colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u101	Thank you. And, colleagues, a closing statement from the Hungarian People's Front, and we move on to the vote. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! It is absolutely necessary to support this bill in view of the vast copyright team. We understand that we need to continue the work and the course that was taken in radically reforming the care system for children that one parent actually refused. And so we now propose to vote 8296 in the first reading. The proposal of those good enough standards, which Bill 1, adds to the next legislative initiatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m1.u103	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to return to the hall from their beds, prepare for the vote, and take up their jobs. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall, maximize your mobility. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on creating economic premeditations to strengthen the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance (No. 8296). I'm just putting it on the ground, but I'm just preparing it for the second reading. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. We're voting on our colleagues, each voice, carefully. Vote, please. Vote. We support our children. [[18:04:25]] For 248 Decision taken. Colleagues, we've adopted a block of very important bills as a basis, but next Thursday we'll be able to adopt them in general by June 1st, by Child Rights Day, we'll be able to make a gift for mothers and children. And it is important that we do so today on Family Day. We had a hard, stressful day, but we made a lot of decisions. Tomorrow I invite everyone to the conference room at 10 o'clock to continue our work. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
