ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:05:18]] 349 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Igor Andryovich Artyushenko. Hello! Happy birthday, buddy! Good luck! [[Applause]] Today, too, Eastern Christians celebrate the great Christmas celebration of the Holy Virgin. And I sincerely welcome everyone with this holiday. In the people, it is called the Second Purgatory. And I very much hope that the Third Sanitation of this year our church will be celebrating with Tomos, and in Ukraine will be the Ukrainian Municipal Orthodox Church. This is what the Ukrainian people want, and I believe it is God’s blessing. And, fellow Members, you know that yesterday, at the age of 65, the National Deputy of Ukraine II, III and IV, author of many legislative initiatives in the field of freedom of speech and information, head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, talented Ukrainian journalist, dissident, one of the leaders of the People's Movement, close associate from the headquarters of Crnovola, Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenko. Let us honor the memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Colleagues, today in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are taking part in a government meeting led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Hello. And today we have the Rules for the submission of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the 19th year. But before we go to the budget presentation, I want to report that there's been a statement from two factions, groups and factions -- "Rebirth" and "The Opposition Block" -- that they're willing to replace by a statement from the rostrum. Please, Mr. Dudenkov, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the President of Ukraine, speaking about the internal and external situation, and in fact this is not a message, but part of his pre-election campaign, spoke about how good it was in Ukraine and that in Ukraine, apart from the army, language and faith, in principle, nothing was needed, because he never paid any attention to the state of the economy and to the state of the budgetary system, which is a screaming state. The government will now be speaking, presenting the draft state budget bill for the following year. And the government, I think, is going to talk about what they've achieved, which has increased funding for the power block, for the law enforcement system, for the Ministry of Defence, has increased funding for the state administration system. What about social security? But facts and figures are a thing that you don't argue with. I'm going to give you a dollar measure because nominal GDP growth has nothing to do with real GDP, because inflation eats purchasing power, it reduces the purchasing power of bracelets. And these big social security figures have nothing to do with the real purchasing power of the population. And the numbers are like that. Now they're going to talk about that the minimum wage has been increased to 4 thousand 179 dollars, and the president's talking about an increase to 4 thousand 200 dollars. But this is in the dollar terms of just $141. I'll give you an example and a comparison. In 2013, the minimum wage was 152 dollars. Here's the real level of social security. Next. The subsistence minimum per person in 2013 is $147. Now it's offered at 16,38 dollars -- $55. Just think about it: 2 times lower. The service of government debt goes to 145 billion dollars, a very serious figure. But to pay off the debt, it's even more real than 272 billion dollars. What does that mean? If more than 300 billion dollars were spent last year, they now spend 417 billion dollars, 40 percent of the revenue. But the most violent and cynical are the assistance of the Chernobylites. In the 13th year, 320 million dollars, they're now offering 60 million dollars. The minimum pension security, housing subsidies for the population last year -- 70 billion -- are now offering only 55 billion. And this is against the backdrop of a 20 percent increase in prices for natural gas tariffs. The most violent and cynical.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u3	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u4	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u5	Okay, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u6	Yeah. The most cynical and the most violent is the state's "turbage" about internally displaced persons. In order to implement the housing programme, internally displaced persons are offered assistance in the form of foreign grants, i.e. the State does not even determine the appropriate guaranteed minimum resources to implement the programme. This year, too, the program for creating new jobs in Donbassa is being canceled. If last year's 80.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u7	Thank you. So, colleagues, I would like to point out that today we have an important stage: the presentation of the State Budget of Ukraine for the 19th year. Yesterday we made a number of promising decisions about Ukraine's future in the EU and NATO, about Ukrainian land, about the removal of parliamentary immunity, we chose a new composition of the CLTC and appointed judges of the Constitutional Court. I want to thank the faction heads again for the political compromise they found. Thank you to every national MP who voted in favour of these decisions. Today, we have a stage of familiarity and a starting point of discussion on the budget. And I would like to point out that, in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the next order of presentation and consideration of the budget is proposed. So first, the submission of the State Budget to the Finance Minister by Oxana Sergiyvna Markarova, then the report by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, up to 5 minutes, and then, like every Friday, during the "hour of questions to the Government" all factions are given the right to question the rapporteur and to the government, and the deputies are also granted the right to question the government. It can work together in the structure. [[B in m in s a l in]] I emphasize, don't discuss it in the hall. It's all fair. From factions and deputies. Paul, read carefully. If I'm not mistaken, there's factions and deputies. Read it carefully. So, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u8	Why can't we ask questions to the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u9	That's how you're going to ask the government. You're going to ask the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u10	No, it's not. What's with the budget? There's a rule, an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u11	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u12	After an hour of questions to the government, a budget submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u13	Colleagues from the government today will speak to Markarov, from the government will speak to Markarov, and every week a government representative will speak, and then there will be questions like each week. "Year of questions to the government" is not eliminated or deleted. So colleagues, all factions will be able to ask questions as well as national MPs. So we agreed. And we turn to the agenda: the presentation of the State Budget for 2019 by Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Oksana Sergiyvna Markarova. In 20 minutes. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u14	Andrew Volodymyrovich, presentation. "the hour of questions to the government." Our right is to ask the government, then separate the budget. What presentation? "Year of questions to the government." Mrs. Oksana, it's an hour of questions to the government. We want to ask different questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u15	I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u16	What presentation? You're asking two different questions. We'll get there instead of asking questions. Mr. Prime Minister, an hour of questions to the government, we have a question to the Minister of Health, to you and so forth. Why the budget? [[B in m in s a l in]] Where are we going? We don't have any other questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andrew Volodymyrovich, ask for a transfer, you have no right to deprive us of questions to the government. "Year of questions to the government," then the presentation of the budget. No, you're asking two different questions. Colleagues, back up what's an hour of questions. "Year of questions to the government," then the presentation of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u17	Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues may have a fear that there will be a limited time for questions. You'll be able to ask everyone questions. Listen, there's a time for requests in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, and I can't move it alone, there are speeches by the deputies, and I don't have the opportunity to move it. What I have to do is give more time, not an hour, but an hour and a half. One and a half hours for you to be able to ask everyone a question from any government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u18	It's a different question: "the hour of questions to the government" and the presentation of the budget It's a separate procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u19	You can ask questions, Oleg. And I would stress that there will be an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u20	That's how she is now, according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u21	It is now there, and Markarov will speak from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u22	This is the presentation of the budget, this is another constitutional procedure, this is a different procedure, this is an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u23	Oleg, once again, will be given plenty of time so that everyone can ask questions both in the budget and in the government. I emphasize once again, everyone will be given time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u24	You're asking two different questions. We insist on law enforcement, let the government ask the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u25	I'll give the government the opportunity to ask questions. I'll be able to ask all the MPs a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u26	Good of you to hear us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Praise to the Ukrainian Parliament and to the Head of the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u28	So, colleagues, pay attention! After a heated but constructive debate, we came to a reconciliation and understanding. We'll start today with questions, and then there'll be speeches. And so, colleagues, please listen carefully right now, we'll start with questions, and then we'll present the budget. So this is the first stage of the faction question, from the deputies, and then Mrs. Oksana will speak. And you're going to have to go to the rostrum again to present the budget. Copy that. So let's get started. I'm asking the faction to record a question to the government. Please hold the recording. Eutushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Igor Lucenko, a colleague from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, in April 2018 -- it will be six months soon -- six months six months, six months, when the public made a tremendous effort to get the Guest House back into state property. Six months soon there will be no more movement after this court decision! The guest house is now irritated by its terrible condition, there – forgive me! - had toilets. I want the government to finally pay attention to this problem. As far as I know, from your apparatus, Vladimir Dmitriovich. Borisovich, and KMDA, all documents are ready to make decisions on the guest house. Please tell me, have you included in Ukraine's State Budget funding for the construction of this building? If not, please tell us that you are ready to make decisions about others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u31	Please, who will answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u32	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, there is a court decision that restores the right of ownership to the state. We also have the appeal of the city of Kiev to transfer this object to the municipal property of the city of Kiev. This issue is under consideration; we are now working with the Kyiv City Administration, with a city head to find out how and under what conditions the State can transfer this property, community property. Thank you for asking. In the state he's in, well, as if there's another simple expression, as a horror, there's no, but it's not because we took him or didn't hand him over, it's because he was brought to the pen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u33	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u34	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, on July 13, the Supreme Council voted in favour of paying wages to miners. So far, mining families have not received their money in the mine today, getting serious diseases and giving coal to the mountains. Please tell me, who was punished for this, the fact that families are now starving, with their hands stretched out, taking money from their neighbors? I have hundreds of miners in the reception room asking me to resolve this matter immediately. The council of independent unions decided and demanded that the government remove immediately from the position of Minister Nasalik, who had no education at all, and had never been in the mine of miners who had been driven from the Mine of Selidewwogil. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u35	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u36	and also punish those who are guilty of begging today without getting a salary. 175 articles of the Criminal Code, please, from 3 to 5. And release immediately from the position of Acid Valentina, who is still harassing Lysichanskwogilli from the miners. Please note this. How much can we talk about this, Volodymyr Borisovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u37	Please, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Shahov for asking. I'm bringing to your attention that for the first time I was in mine in 89 Cuzbas, you probably went to kindergarten. And my first trip, which was connected to Lviv, was to go down into all the Lviv mines. That's the first question. By the second. Today’s debt is 348,1 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u39	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u40	I'm telling you, I'm not going to argue with you. The other one. The question of debt is 348.1 million is the difference in debt. The law you said was passed, but to this day we are looking with Minfin for a source of fulfillment of this law. So today, we've come up with a general pattern. And I think, starting Monday, we're going to start off with the total cost of the product. The current cost of unloaded coal is 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u41	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Singerkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, in the history of the adoption of Ukraine's budgets, there was everything: circumcision, cutting, resection, but there has not been a decommissioning. We have seen in article 22 of the draft budget that 69 colleges will be extracted from the body of universities of the state. Where's the logic? Instead of creating powerful educational holdings, we cut it out. We're already at the Science and Education Committee on Wednesday, and we've been looking at this issue, six is zero. We made a decision: We cannot do that. It's unprofessional, it doesn't make any sense to develop education in Ukraine. What is more, unfortunately, there were no Minfin representatives, although I personally invited them to this committee meeting. I don't want to put Ukraine's budget at risk, but the position of the committee is clear enough, and we're going to stand for this position at our Peter Dustenk Block. Please, let's avoid making an unprofessional decision. Article.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u43	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u44	Article 22 should be amended. There are other tools, I told the Deputy Minister of Finance. There are other tools: government procurement profile, indicative self-sustainment systems. There are tools that you can make up for it, but if you take out college universities, it's simply unsystematic and unprofessional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u45	The ark.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! It's true that you can't go to colleges in this way, but you have to take a professional approach and look at: there are colleges that actually give higher education; there are colleges that prepare professionals for all of Ukraine, and their funding needs to be saved from the state budget; and there are colleges that have local regional significance, which, along with the system of vocational and technical education, can create powerful centres of vocational under-education. But we would like this room not to have a mistake that happened this year when it was decided to fund colleges in universities and academies at the expense of the state budget, but we didn't get $2.9 billion for funding, and this system today remains in very difficult shape. So when we discuss this problem in the preparation of the budget, let us look for sound rational solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u47	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u48	Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich, at the last "hour of the government" in July, I was addressing you, asking for a 458 decree of the 16th year, which was a government that actually created a legal conflict, effectively minimized the rights of foster families after adoption. Now there are many cases where children are actually taken away from foster homes and the state is not doing so, services are not guided by the interests and priorities of the child’s happiness. On numerous requests, I received constant receipts from the Ministry of Profiles. And I'm asking you, I'm addressing you again, I'm asking you to take personal control of this issue, to create an interdisciplinary group. Because, in fact, the department of profile doesn't see the problem, but a lot of parents in foster families see the problem. I want you to create a working group, if possible, under your supervision or control from the Ministry of Justice, the national deputies who care about this issue, as well as representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u49	Thank you, thank you for your question. You had an appropriate assignment, so it was handled by the Ministry. I don't see anything difficult in having the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of handling this matter once again, if necessary, and in the commission warehouse. Thank you. There will be an appointment for the minister, Vice Prime Minister Rosenk. Thank you. Paul Valeriovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u50	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u51	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, there have been a lot of important questions here, but I think the People's Front faction believes that the primary issues are the issue of national security and defence measures at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. Thank you and all the coalition government that the draft budget provides for this, and this year more than two hundred billion dollars are allocated for national security and defence. The People's Front has repeatedly called on you to provide for an increase of at least 30-40 percent in salaries for our military personnel. Please tell me, will this be foreseen? And secondly, will this budget be balanced, because he has repeatedly addressed all the heads of factions, all the deputies, so that the adoption of the budget does not turn into a race in population and suspicions that the situation in Ukraine needs to be improved. Please tell me if the budget is balanced and is the projected wage increase required by the People's Front, our military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u52	Thank you, Reverend Maxim Yuriovich. In fact, we were working to increase the security and defense of the budget. In the draft budget that we submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament, it's 209.5 billion dollars, it's with a special fund of 30 billion dollars more than last year, which at the same time provides for an increase in wages in security and defence for the military -- 10,000 dollars, and it's still in other services, there, Nazgwardy, the police -- 9,000 dollars minimum wage. Such funds allow us to make an appropriate calculation of wages. At the same time, I would like to inform you that security and defence costs are being incurred under the decision of the National Security and Defence Council. Under the presidency of the President, we discussed this issue and actually found mechanisms for implementing this ambitious task, because the issue of financing the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian military, the modernization of arms -- this issue is really one of the top priorities in our country. At the same time, however, we remember the budget, our social obligations, and so forth. So this decision, approved by the National Security and Defence Council, was the basis of the draft budget itself, which was submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament. I fully support you in that the 19th year budget, or budget, has been balanced. And then we're going to have a country budget, not a crisis budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u53	Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatolyevich. Mr. Yuri. Debtenko. Goose, I'm sorry, yes, Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u54	I have a question about the debt on the payroll in front of the coal mines. And the question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because to ask the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry this question, it's probably not worth asking, because he can't or doesn't want to solve this problem. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to tell you that perhaps for the first time since 2000 in the history of Ukraine, miner's Day 26 of August was not paid off to miners. And today we have the budget project again. And in this budget project, the total amount that's allocated to the coal industry is going down by a billion dollars. And there is no article on promoting the cost of coal industry. I'd like to tell you that this happens every year. The government introduces such a draft budget and then in the middle of the year. Can I have 30 seconds, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u55	As soon as it takes a minute and six seconds, I'll add 30 seconds. I'm adding, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u56	Then, in the middle of the year, an additional law is passed on increasing state support and the article on self - worth. Everything would be fine. But people are suffering. Because in the meantime, there's no money for a salary, and people don't get a salary. Vladimir Borisovich, why control it like that? And you have repeatedly promised yourself from this rostrum that there will be no debt to the miners of the state mines. Well, when will this problem finally be solved?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. So you're talking about paying the cost difference very, very clearly. This means that in the private sector, where our coal mines are mined, the value is normal. And in government mines, the value of money is higher than the market price. And you know it. That's why there's this difference. And it's always been, unfortunately, too bad. And because of that, there were a lot of lost opportunities for modernizing the coal industry at all. This year we have further allocated 1.4 billion voted in this room to cover this difference. But our task, which I'm putting in for ministers, is to stop making a difference and to put money into the development of the state's economic sector. This will mean that the cost of reducing and extracting coal will increase because it is a strategic goal. And for these purposes, next year we're also giving 2.3 billion dollars. And I think it's the main task of the ministry that manages this process today to go on balance, on the one hand, to support self-sustainment, the differences in self-sustainment that will arise last year, and also to invest in increasing domestic coal extraction and reducing its self-sustainment. And if you look at the efficiency of the different mines, you'll see that there are a lot of questions that need to be addressed in an organizational way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u58	Thank you. From the "Rebirth" faction of Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Yesterday, I was contacted by residents of the village of Novoselovka Kili district. An unknown registrar made a raid on the basic company Enikio of the Kili district of the village. I very much ask you, personally, Volodymyr Borisovich, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all complaints and requests have been sent to you to bring this information to the people. And when there is a committee meeting in Minsk, it is necessary to invite a national MP from 142 constituencies, you beat Kisse, and the representatives of the company. This registrar, this bandit from Dnieper. I ask you very much to understand and bring this information to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. It will be my appropriate assignment. I don't think banditism has a pen, Dniper has a beautiful, wonderful people. But if this person, as a registrar, has committed illegal acts, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is bound to file a criminal case against him. You will be assigned to do so, and you too will be assigned to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u62	Thank you. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Question to Prime Minister Groysman. Volodymyr Borisovich, acting as Health Minister of Ulysses Suprun, advised the Ukrainians yesterday with advice: She said that patients should be moved forward with their feet. She had previously given very helpful advice: Before sleeping for 40 minutes, listen to music to relax; then give a massage of her eyes; then sit on cold men; and eat ice cream for the children on their throats. Volodymyr Borisovich, tell me, is it a shame for you to have such a minister of health to give such advice? It seems to me that people need to be able to be treated and given adequate medical attention. I was in Odessa two days ago in an oncology dispensary. So the main thing is, people are like, "How are we supposed to get better? Where do you get the money for chemistry?".. In addition, doctors said that Ulyana Suprun was with you a few days ago and had not even met with the doctors. Who is this minister who doesn't see doctors, doesn't communicate with patients? We demand the resignation of Uljana Suprun from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u64	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich. After the genre, I'd have something to say to Ulysses right now. But listen to me carefully. If you think it's just what the minister and the ministry are doing, then I don't think you're entirely objective. Why aren't we talking about the Ministry's team changing the public procurement system that is overcoming corruption today? Why aren't we talking about how the original chain of titanium, in my opinion, changes that in the medium term will lead to a completely new quality of medicine on the primary chain, and those hospitals that are already operating in the new system already have a completely new security? And the doctors who used to have a primary pay line of 6,000 dollars now have 12-16. And that's true. This is just the beginning. The National Health Service, which monitors, monitors, and monitors the quality of medicine, has been launched. We're building a cardiovascular surgery center that saves people's lives. If you ask me if we're making mistakes, I think so, and you have to admit that. But on the other hand, I want to emphasize that not everything is clear. And as for the advice, I think that free advice is different for everyone: someone likes it and someone doesn't. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u65	Thank you. And I want to report that I am actively using the advice of Ulysses Suprun. And I didn't pick up little mushrooms when I was picking up in the mountains. Dear colleagues, I think Uljana Suprun, who is fighting corruption in medicine, is doing the greatest service for Ukrainian medicine, for Ukrainian society and for Ukrainian citizens. 27 years, unfortunately, Ukrainian medicine has been such, you know, a platform for corruption. Uljana Suprun is fighting corruption. Uljana Suprun is an honest minister. I think we need to support her. Thank you. And let's move on to questions from the national MPs. Please record from the National MPs. 15 minutes from the people's deputies. Igor Mosiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u66	Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Poltavščina Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to ask you a question, because at a meeting with the President's factions, you said you didn't know, and that all the companies that are allowed to produce nadrs are going through the auction. Please tell me, what is it that in the territory of Poltavska, a non-understanding Russian oligarch enterprise has been awarded 12 non-acquisitionable crops, as if from the coat of a bar? And the second. In Poltava, a city head is illegally moved. Unlawful changes to register. What's going on in Poland? Explain to my countrymen Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Igor, for your question. In fact, we were discussing the issue of the distribution of genealogies. By the way, it was signed by that deputy of the Heonadr who was detained in bribes, and thank God, and thank you to the law enforcement authorities for holding him back would have been more delayed. But in that working group, or the commission, when this was discussed, first you know that no decision has been taken by the government on this issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I can hear you, but if your colleagues talk like that, they're gonna listen to Ulysses Suprun, they're gonna have a normal swallow. That's what I was going to say. We had our representative there at this meeting, and he made a separate statement, which is legally stated that we do not support this decision, but the commission made its decision. So after that, I gave the Secretary of the Government a legal order to draft a decision to make a distinction between those decisions and those decisions within the limits of the powers of the Government of Ukraine. I actually think that what's happening today at Nadrah, when we've changed the law, we've changed a lot of different regulations that we've been regulating, and made this system more transparent. But in the middle of July, we decided to open the geodome to the government, if you remember, and to hold auctions if you remember. So, yesterday at a government meeting, I gave an order to the Ministry of Ecology not to sign this decision for two months. I think that once these decisions are signed, transparency and competitiveness will become much more. And I'm not going to support either Russian or Ukrainian oligarchs who are ripping off Ukrainian nadars, I can tell you that clearly. And I think a lot of the people here know how much I didn't let decisions about the rubble of Ukrainian nadr, what he's made of his enemies, but that's my destiny. So I don't think it's the number of enemies, it's the number of people we haven't allowed to rob.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u68	Thank you. The festivities pass the word for Kulinich's question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u69	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, first of all, would like to thank you for what your government is doing in terms of reconstruction and repair of roads, particularly in Poltavian. But there is a huge problem that prevents efficient repairs, for example, this year. It's about companies that support a questionable reputation that deliberately break tender procedures. This is how the process of determining the winners of the trade is delayed, and there is a situation where there are costs, but there is no work to be done. This applies to both public and public roads. Perhaps in this situation legislation needs to be changed? But how can we explain this situation to people who have money and cannot do repairs? So I ask you to take this matter under personal control, perhaps even a separate government meeting to devote to this problem. But this must be decided, and something must be done this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Thank you. Another question from Poland. Mr. Igor, I was going to say about Mayor Poltava. Igor Mosiyczuk. I was going to say Poltava's mayor. Clearly, the city council has the authority today to make decisions on exclusion. But I think I might even make a very short rule of law that would have predicted a balance in this issue. If the city council sends the city’s head, it means that the city council itself is disbanded and everyone goes to the polls. Then no one will abuse it, you know? And the same right may be there to fortify the city’s own head. So that if the city head says so, it's possible to make a balance and a counterbalance that will both hold back and, on the other hand, settle the issue. That's the first one. And by tender. The problem is not just on the road. The problem of tenders is in many areas, when firms, so - called daytimes, do not exist except for a taboo and a rented office in three square meters, nothing. They're applying to ProZorro because it's completely open. And there, through the Antimonopoly Committee, using the gaps in legislation, they abuse these issues. The only way to do that is to fix these gaps at the legislative level. And in principle, we prepared and worked with the President's Administration. The President introduced a bill on changes in public procurement, where the issue is settled. If Parliament's will is to pass this law, the situation will definitely change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u73	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich! I'm very pleased to see, as always, the government report. I'd like you to give maybe some attention to what's going on in Bucquell at the PBS Road Company, that BSS crapper. Nevertheless, in the 14th year, as I recall, with what we were struggling with, with the Urpaji Yanukovic, we transferred the authority from such a usurpating power of Yanukovic to the parliamentary-presidential republic. And the Cabinet of Ministers became the prime guarantor of legality. It's been a long time since this whole mess is happening, people don't get out of offices at all. Well, I think so. Please put this matter under personal control. And on the other hand, I want to put it. Well, ask you to put under personal control the accounts with all the companies that did the work that don't do the math all over the country. You may not be aware of this situation, but please pay attention. Thank you. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. I want to make it clear that when we see strong action in terms of businesses and entrepreneurs, it saddens me very much, very much. And I don't care if it's a business in the east, in the west of Ukraine, or in the center, it doesn't matter. We're fighting today for real changes in business relations, and so any approach should be completely civilized, especially since you and I have adopted bills for more public activity in this matter, so-called mask-show stop 1 and mask-show stop 2, which I hope will be signed by the President as soon as possible. I don't know, po. The stories of why they came there, the law enforcement officers and so on, but I can only say that this does not add to Ukraine's authority if there is an act of force. If they're fair, I don't have any questions. Well, there may have been some reason why they went to this resort. That's the first one. The other one. The Ukrainian Security Service is not coordinated or subordinated to the Ukrainian Government, and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service is appointed by the Ukrainian Parliament. I would advise you to contact the Attorney General of Ukraine, and I think that Yuri Vitaliyovich will deal fairly with this issue and will give you an absolutely clear answer as to what happened, why and how. That's my advice. But in general, I don't think there can be any force in terms of business. To terrorists, bandits, thieves, please, and as far as business is concerned, we have to work with him, first of all, politely, and if there is even a question of tax evasion or something else, I think there is a thousand and one way without strong action to get information in today's world and lead the matter to a logical conclusion. As far as road repair is concerned, we finance everything that was done and what was envisaged for 2017-2018. The fact that the increased plans were without agreement with the government in the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u75	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u76	The fact that contractors have increased their funding beyond the Government budget and the plans that have been approved by the government has created a problem that needs to be addressed, and we are now thinking about how to get out of this situation. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Timis Grigory Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u78	Vladimir Borisovich, thank you. Indeed, it is felt that the government is working effectively to repair roads throughout Ukraine. This is a big thank you from all the Ukrainians and the Bucuinians, first of all. And I have a question for Mr. Omelian. Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, for us, it is incomprehensible that you move to remove 68 million from the construction of the road, the international road near CPT "Prubne" in the Cherniewsky region. We ask ourselves, ‘ Why didn’t you punish the Road Service, which did not use these costs effectively? And where did the money go? Were they redistributed, or did they return to the draft budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u79	Good afternoon, noble national MP! Thank you for your request. Yeah, we had a separate meeting with the Kravtodor from this tour. You will be informed in writing about the outcome of the review in the Cherniewsky region.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Onufrik Bogdan Semenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u82	Hotcharyenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that there are 1.5 billion dollars in the next year's budget for the Odessa-Reni route to finally complete this very important project. But beyond the southern Odessa region in our area is the north, which also deserves great attention. And there's this path of Kuchurgan-Vinitz that goes through Delilsk, Baltu, and it's completely destroyed. And I'd like to ask you to give the commission to study the possibility of at least some funding for the next year to start work there is the first question. And the second is the same as the school in Balta, School No.3, which was burned as a result of a natural disaster. Again, thank you for the appropriate assignments that you have made. There the situation has moved away, but you need further control to really get the jobs started there and by the following year the children will be able to return to their school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. And thank you for appreciating our work on road construction. You know, I also see that today more and more people are saying, and our road is not being repaired. When all were not repaired, in principle everyone understood that, well, nothing could be changed. And when we started strategically entering to increase the volume of construction, the reconstruction of roads in Ukraine, then people started to say, "Why do they do this road and don't do ours?" Of course, both in the area is south and north, and in Ukraine is both north and south and west and east and center and so on. Our strategy is this: For the next five years, we need to unite all the district centers among ourselves in high - quality roads. The second priority is the so-called "heavy", "t", the "t" road, which connects the centrifuges between each other. They too need to be reconstructed. How does the system work? This year we've allocated 47.7 billion dollars to the state road fund plus road projects. This year it's 56 billion, well in the 19th, as we put it, it's 17.7, I think it's more than in the current year. This means that the cost has increased. Sorry, 17.7. Yeah, it was 46, it was. It was 47, it was 56. And 17.7 billion of these are the local roads that were transferred this year to 11.5 billion, the next to 17,700. These are local roads. And so all we really need is time, economic growth and financial stability in the country, and roads will be realized. What you're asking me is that I'm going to give you an assignment to work with. Maybe that's part of the strategy for next year, we'll see. As for the Baltic, yes, we will support, move on. Thank you for your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u84	Thank you. And a final question. Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u85	Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, ask you a question. Last week at the receptions in my district, there's a huge queue. The main issue is the changes to the grant conditions before the regulation. People are now mass-registrationing their children, and their grandkids are recording them because their children and grandchildren (and this is the Kyiv region) are actually working in other cities, especially Kiev, and they need them instead of running and collecting this information about what they're actually not living in, yes, making them homeless, without registration. Then it is not possible to register in RAGS right now because older people are getting divorced. It's impossible to get into the RAGS right now. You've reduced the social standard that you raised to 75 square meters last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u86	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u87	Why would it be destroyed up to 20 feet [48 m] if you agreed to a 75 - foot [75 m] stake? Why would the social standard be reduced from 5, which is still so small, to 4,5 cubic meters per square meter? People ask how they can survive, how to winter them? Vladimir Borisovich, you don't know what kind of social tension is in place right now of these changes? Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I think the Minister of Social Policy is going to take a minute, and I'm going to finally give you the answer and how people are going to live the hot season. Okay? Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Mishchenko, you've drawn, of course, a very sad painting, but if you go to the RAGS today and try to apply for marriage or any other action, there's no information that there's a kilometre line and you can't do that, either in the Ministry of Social Policy or in the Ministry of Justice today. So I would ask you not to exaggerate what you're talking about. Second position on changes to the grant program. Yes, there are serious changes that have been made by 329 decrees, but they do not necessarily make it necessary to write out those children who are at the address and who live and work in other cities. No change in this situation has been made in our ability to grant subsidies to these citizens. So if someone tells people that they have to quit, he is misleading them. These issues were regulated and regulated by working committees dealing with citizens’ claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u91	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll continue and finish. As a national MP, I would ask you to make a list of such persons and give them to us. We'll help them form subsidies if there are. Indeed, the fairness of granting subsidies to Ukrainian citizens has been strengthened. This may have caused some anxiety, perhaps even confusion. So what I want to say is, everyone who needs subsidies in Ukraine gets a dot. And everyone will be fully provided with this social opportunity. That's the first one. Secondly, only in the Kyiv region did we find the first month of testing and operation of the electronic register of 20,000 double-subsidies. This means that those who need it have been taken away and given to those who faked the documents and submitted them to receive subsidies in Ukraine. So all people get support, all those who need it. All people will be provided with subsidies regardless of anything. And I guarantee it. And another thing about people's acceptance, people's acceptance, is that there can certainly be a local factor, because in social protection agencies, there are people in the social protection departments who are working in areas, villages, communities. And they accept people. And there may also be misunderstandings, and there may be, if you will excuse me, open housekeeping. But I completely condemn any such action by officials. I always stress social protection management -- with the light of the soul, treat people better, so that they get support so undetected that it's completely secure for them, not in any other way. And one more thing. Each such body has a commission that can consider any unique case and make a fair decision and grant a grant to a person, even if he has exclusive circumstances of life. So all of this is foreseen. Thank you for asking. I'm expecting you to list the people you've had at your reception at a previous reception with specifics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u92	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Before I go to the budget presentation and invite Markarov to say something, I want to say that the two factions have applied for a break and are ready to replace it with a speech. Radical Party and Self-Help. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, God sees that I didn't want to continue the discussion with you, but your irony and superiority when we asked questions, and your completely inappropriate advice to the Ukrainians to listen to the advice of the Suprun forced us to come out to this rostrum. Now, listen to my advice. First. When it comes to the health of Ukrainians, please leave your pride, sovereignty, and irony in your office. Second of all, take off your pink glasses. If you think everything is too good and you're doing everything right, you're very wrong. Ukraine takes first place in the world in mortality from cardiovascular diseases. In the third millennium, Ukrainian children die because they were not given a measles vaccine in time. During the third millennium, Ukraine has recorded records of tuberculosis, AIDS, drug addiction, and other serious diseases. You have under the Ministry of Health, if you don’t see, almost a month of onc sick, sick people living because they are trying to save the lives of their people. Your children. In this year’s budget, 390 million claims for heavy - health treatment were used by May. The draft budget you submitted for the following year is the same amount. In the Ministry of Health, there are funds for the treatment of cancer patients who are seriously ill. They are not specifically used because they care about the interests and lives of Ukrainians. You come along with the minister of health in Odessa, in the customs terminal, you open a new terminal there -- your minister of health didn't find the opportunity to meet Odessa's medical community to hear the doctors, hear the patients, finally hear the problems people are living in! How are you going to solve Ukrainian problems if you don't hear them? After you answered, I contacted a doctor at Ravenna County Hospital. A rheumatologist claims -- failed programs for the supply of drugs for oncology, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, other diseases. I don't know why you don't see people's problems! So, Mr. Groissman, look at me. My advice to you is, don't play with fire and don't be a beast in me. We're asking you to resign Uljana Suprun. We demand that you respect the Ukrainians and their problems. We're asking you instead of spending money where you don't understand, to increase funding under the "Available Drugs" program on on oncology, on heavy-hit people, so they don't die because they don't have the ability to buy drugs! We're asking you to restore state control over drug prices, stop this pharmaceutical mafia that benefits Ukrainian health. And do not laugh where it is inappropriate to laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for the fine sleep, he touched me deeply too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u95	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u96	Wait, I've been waiting for you to say. You know, I just told you about calling things your names. If you don't like Uljana Suprun, you don't have to hang everything that happened in medicine for 27 years of independence. That's the first one. [[Applause]] Next. I was born into a normal family and pride is not my quality. And I'd like to take that into account when you come to me. I've always understood people's problems, and I've always tried to solve them, and I've only been in central politics for two years, not the way others in 10, 15, 20 years sit here and speak the same speeches. Third position. I am ready to answer for every action I take. You're talking about measles, don't you know that children who haven't been welcomed five years ago are getting sick today? You're talking about vaccines, don't you know, for the first time today, Ukraine is provided with vaccines, for the first time in seven years, according to the entire calendar. Do you not know what depths today, Oleg Valeriovich, are the problems in all hospitals, and do you really think that I can and can solve them, or the same Ulyana. I think that's one of her virtues, and I've told you this over and over again, it's the ability to resist corruption and the pharmaceutical mafia, and that's why she's repeatedly beaten. I'm sure I said "for mistakes," when I reported it, I said there might be mistakes, and I admit it. But in human white, I have compassion for people, and that's why I'm here. And this is a paradisaic position, and this is a position that allows you to test and do everything you can to make life in the country change. And I'm asking you all to be together. Didn't you and I introduce a system of free drugs? Didn't you and I start changing the drug purchase system? Didn't we build OHMATDIT with you? With you, because you accept the country's final budget. Didn't you and I build 23 heart centers around the country? Didn't you and I change the system?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u98	which allows today without 30-40 percent of the rebates to buy drugs abroad and so on? We created this with you. But much more needs to be done. And I think that in each of us, we don't have to think that we're going to live until we're old enough. Hurry up and do good things. And, I think, the Lord is neither word nor anything else, but the Lord is to value each one of us in this life. Thank you for your criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u99	Thank you, colleagues. And let's move on to the state budget. And I invite you to the rostrum of Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Sergiyevna Markarov. Mrs. Oksana, back to the rostrum. Please, in 20 minutes, your schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow Ukrainians! Working together, Parliament, President, two Ukrainian governments have laid a solid foundation for a new stage in the development of our country. You all remember, after the massive economic crisis, the financial crisis, the inflation that few people now imagine as we went through this period, the devaluation of national currency and the growth of debt, the economy has returned to steady growth. In recent years, government budgets have been the mirror of the real situation. It was in them that we clearly reflected the situation in the country, our real returns, and it was in them that we reflected the priorities of the government, the President, the Parliament, that were provided with real resources and supported by financial resources. Every budget since 2015 and you remember how difficult that budget was. Not only did he reflect the situation that took place that year but he also introduced important reforms. It's also decentralization reforms, it's education reform, it's health change, it's pension reform, it's a road fund that's come up and a lot more. It is through the State budget that all these reforms are introduced by the law of profile, because of major budget changes, because of the specific budget programmes that have emerged, because of the small changes in the state budget appendices from the plans, that ideas become a reality that is embodied. The government of Groysman made the budget a clear priority. Not only do we provide the budget on time, we not only provide all the documents that should be in this budget, we also discuss with all the committees, the subcommittees a full budget to ensure that the budget that is approved by Parliament is approved by all of us together and implemented together. 2018 is the year of economic growth, and it's the tenth quarter in a row that our economy is growing. We're seeing budget execution this year. Despite the difficult year, the State budget has been implemented in eight months by almost 99 percent of both income and significant expenditure. Ukraine is once again a growing country. And the 2019 budget that we're presenting to you today, the country's construction budget for the past few years sets the following goals for itself. First. Keep macrostability and reduce deficits. The other one. This is used by all, to activate all tools to accelerate economic growth. To ensure peace and to protect sovereignty by financing security and defense. Implement effective governance and increase accountability and transparency. What the main resources are in our budget. The total resource is 1 trillion 108 billion dollars in Ukraine, including 994 billion dollars in the global fund. Fiscal consolidation, or, in simple language, the ability to live according to our own capabilities, is our priority. All four years in a row, the government budget deficit is declining, and by the 19th year, we're giving a clear priority not to exceed 2.28 percent. Not to exceed 90 billion. We've done a real income analysis and income analysis this year, and accordingly, the income we're making for the 19th year is realistic, and we have no doubt about the revenue we're making for the budget. And I would also like to point out that in the 19th year, we are planning to reduce the redistribution of revenue through the state budget to 25 percent, thus reducing the role of the state and giving a certain decline to the economy. The debt is the biggest challenge of our state budget for 2019. 417.4 billion dollars is an unprecedented figure that you and I will have to spend on repayment and debt servicing next year. That restructuring, which was carried out by the government and supported by Parliament, gave us a place in the last few years for the economy to develop. In 2019 we return to peak debt servicing, and they're fully provided in our budget. Because it's very important because it's a big risk for further budgets, we've adopted a debt management strategy on the Cabinet of Ministers, and in three years we're going to reduce debt to GDP to 49 percent. Nevertheless, in the 2019 budget, we have provided resources for all of our main priorities. First priority, of course, is defense. We recognize in the State Budget that we are dealing with military, economic, hybrid aggression inside the country. That is why those courageous men and women who defend us on the front and who protect peace on the streets of our cities should be able to do so effectively. The draft budget provided 209.7 billion dollars and completed both the President of Ukraine and the recent National Security Council decision to provide a 30 per cent increase in cash and the provision of at least 10,000 sums of military personnel and at least 9,000 dollars to the police and DSS. In order to develop weapons and technology, 28.9 billion have been invested. Protection of health. A steady increase in health spending and structural changes within. The budget for this area is increasing by 11.9 billion, and we support both the reform of the primary chain that has already begun and the introduction of medical guarantees and a pilot project for medical guarantees for an outpatient, secondary, already specialized. And a number of very important projects, such as reimbursation, medicine compensation, such as support for rural medicine, and many others. Education. Of course, one of the most important reforms that has been reflected in the State budget. We've changed the focus of budget planning from maintenance to direct financing of services, and we're already seeing the result in the new Ukrainian school that started work this year. In support of the New Ukrainian School project, 1.3 billion were also invested in the new budget. There is also more funding for inclusive education, an extremely important element in bringing our education closer to European standards. Social protection. Much has already been said in this room about the importance of social protection. And this, in fact, remains a matter of priority for the government. Pensions in 2019 have been increased by 27.3 billion and the Pension Fund will be fully funded. And all the pensions, and the modernisation of the March 1st pensions, and the pensions of the military will be fully funded. We will also fully provide for all citizens who meet the criteria and are entitled to subsidies. Today, it has been said that all, all, citizens may not have enough subsidies. They are definitely sufficient for those who need them and for those who are entitled to them. And that's why the verification we're conducting together allows the target to provide everyone who needs it. This will be done in 2019. Also a minimum of living, minimum wage. We want the economy to grow faster, and we want to increase social standards much faster. Next year, we're setting a minimum wage of nearly 4 thousand 200 dollars, and we're increasing all social inflation rates plus 2 percent, so the increase will not only compensate for inflation, but also slightly precede inflation. We've moved away from the residual principle of financing culture. You can all see movies that quickly appear on TV channels and delight our children and adults. That's why funding for further theatres, publishing, creative teams, and funding, supporting the production of films will continue next year. Honey. An unprecedented reform, initiated together for, not even construction, but reconstruction, I would say, our country's infrastructure. Ukrainians are worthy of high - quality roads, of course. It's not a question that can be solved in one year, not even in three years, but in the 18th year, the road fund was 50 percent full, next year it was 75 percent of excise duties. And together with international financial aid, from our partners, it's going to be a 56 billion total that's going to be spent, an unprecedented number, on road construction. We continue to support the agrosector by focusing on small farmers, restocking, animal development, gardening support, and the cost of loans for small agricultural businesses. Decentralization. Of course, we all see local budgets growing steadily over the last few years. But also through the State Budget, we're setting up a tool for the State Regional Development Fund, which costs up by one and a half times the current year. And 9.1 billion will be spent in the draft budget, as we suggest, on the Regional Development Fund. There will also be an additional $1.9 billion subsidy to support united territorial communities. And to the end. For us, accountability and transparency are extremely important, not only in the budgetary process, but in all systems of budget allocation. Along with you. You supported this initiative and approved such an important tool as the public funds portal that opened up all treasury transactions three years ago. Every bracelet spent in the state budget can be seen online. Along with the State Budget, we're also starting a new phase in budgetary transparency, and we've discovered that it's already on the Ministry of Finance's website today, the Open Budget project, or the public budget. This draft budget that we have submitted and the consideration that we are starting with you today reflects our commitment to our priorities and that each of our priorities is provided with financial resources. Would we like to provide each priority with more resources? Of course, it's only possible to do this because of the growth of the economy, only because of fiscal discipline. And along with the growth of the economy, you can increase spending on these priority sectors. So from today on, Ukraine's budget is in the hands of each of you members of Parliament. For my part, I want to assure you of full constructive cooperation and active cooperation. Setting up for active work, both the Ministry of Finance and all members of the government team, so that this year, again after active discussions, you and I will be able to adopt Ukraine's State Budget in a timely manner and start a new year with the country's main financial document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u101	Thank you. I would like to invite you, in a report to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of the National Deputy Andrija Pavelek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u102	Good day, Reverend Oksano Ivanovno, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government! The government has submitted to Parliament in due time a bill on the State Budget for 2019, and today the bill is being submitted within the time limit set by legislation. Thus, as in the past year, the Supreme Council has the opportunity to give due consideration to the document in accordance with the full special procedure laid down in the Rules. On Wednesday, the Budget Committee of the Ministry of Finance presented the main indicators and priorities of the State Budget project for 2019. The Committee held a general discussion, which highlighted some of the issues that require further discussion, including, firstly, on realistic planning revenues from privatization in view of the lack of implementation of such an indicator over the past years. Secondly, regarding the level of financial security of medicine, including the treatment of citizens abroad and the further transfer of colleges to the local level, taking into account the cost constraints of the current year. Thirdly, with regard to the justification of the determination of significant costs for roads in separate territories in the State Road Fund, uniform approaches to the allocation of such funds should be applied. In addition, there is a question of the availability of the anticipated amount of subsidies for the granting of benefits and housing subsidies to individual categories of citizens in case of an increase in the price of natural gas. As well as cost compensation. Loss of local budget income from State tax benefits, especially in part of the land benefits for the railway. In particular, it is appropriate to note that the revenue part of the State Budget project is designed to take into account government bill 9085 on changes to the Tax Code regarding the rate indexation. Therefore, the reality of the budget’s comings depends to some extent on the adoption of such a bill as a matter of priority. In addition, the government has submitted a draft budget-related bill 9084 on changes to the Budget Code, which, inter alia, provides 5 percent of the rent for the use of nadrama in local self - government budgets. Thus, such bills should be considered in a mutually agreed manner with a view to achieving a balanced budget. At present, it is premature to give a general assessment of the bill in view of the need for a detailed analysis of the project budget indicators. The Committee on Budgets has started a thorough process of processing such a document and has asked the Ministry of Finance to provide adequate calculations and justifications that have not been provided in the accompanying material to the bill in full scope. The main scientific and expert office has already concluded a bill that will be carefully worked out together with the conclusions of the Court of Auditors when preparing the bill for the first reading. According to special regulations, the Committee on Budget Affairs should consider proposals by national deputies and committees for the bill and for the first reading to prepare the relevant conclusions and proposals. Therefore, attention should be paid to the need to formulate proposals in accordance with article 156 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, and all proposals should be submitted to the Committee of Budgets no later than October 1. In doing so, proposals to increase costs or reduce budget revenues should identify the sources of their coverage. At the same time, we are waiting in the Ministry of Finance and generally from the government to implement realistic medium-term budget planning in line with strategic objectives and economic development trends, based on current economic and budgetary indicators. I invite people's deputies, factions, committees, governments to cooperate constructively, and we urge everyone to work productively on the draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u103	Thank you. So now, from the factions and groups, and whoever intends to speak, please hold the record, please. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, I see we have a day of discussion today between us and you, and there is every reason for that. Mrs. Markarov was on her way. How much for your budget report? You've reported it. 20 minutes went by, you reported 10. Why? The answer is obvious: You have nothing to report. Because it's the budget you put in here. I saw the Prime Minister present the budget, says, "Everybody is critical, but three years in a row." Vladimir Borisovich, they vote for one reason -- because the money is needed for the army, for the defense. If there were no Russian aggression, you'd get a budget from us! Because you don't have a vision of overcoming poverty, you don't have an economic strategy, you don't see your nose anymore. You're living one day: take credit, re-credit, and know what you've taken before. And you read about it every day. What's next? What, five years later, 50 years later? What country will you hand over to our children and grandchildren? With what salary, with what wealth, with what medicine, with what standard of living? You're telling me this is a problem-solving budget? What's not there is the solution to the problems of poverty. Listen to what employers say: You can't find qualified workers because all people emigrate for higher wages abroad. The only way to solve this problem is to raise wages and what are you doing? You assign a minimum wage of 4 thousand 173 bracelets. You're going to live on that salary. And 4 million people get that minimum wage. This wage is lower for the worker than for the help of the bums in Germany, France, or some other European country. And when we ask you to raise wages, you say, "No money." To simulate the fight against corruption, against officials, against judges, against prosecutors for 300 thousand wages, you have to give the workers money to re-establish the labour market, to develop the economy, to raise the welfare of the people, you don't have the money. That's why we have a key requirement for you to raise wages because the higher wages, the more opportunities we have to raise pensions. Setting a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars will provide an additional resource to the pension fund’s budget of 20 billion dollars. Here's your pension bill. 4 million Ukrainian pensioners receive 1 and a half thousand dollars of pension. Taking our demands into account will allow a thousand dollars to raise the pension of these millions of people who have worked hard and are now begging. So raising wages, overcoming poverty, stimulating job creation, economic growth is my country's development plan, unlike you. You don't have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u105	From the Opposition Block, Storm Games, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u106	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, today's big religious holiday, I'm a believer. I was coming here for a meeting of the Supreme Council, and I gave myself a word not to speak and not to speak, because I am calm, frankly, unable to speak. When we're talking about the budget, with all due respect, Vladimir Borisovich, to you, we have a common past, and you and I, from Yanukovich, received the Order of Credits in one day before the State of Stage III. So I, you know, decided not to criticize today, I didn't call my family, so. I would still like to say that you, as Head of the Supreme Council, were the first Supreme Council to stand up for the Opposition Block, when the Minister of Health of Kvetashvili allowed himself to have rough accidents, and you're following legislation, I suggest you once again, before you go to specific, to follow legislation. In accordance with article 239 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers participates in a full-time session of the Supreme Council. According to the seventh part of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, the sixth part of the Cabinet consists of the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister and the Ministers. What are those people doing to you? One's been sitting for two years. With all due respect, what you're protecting is an honor. Well, she's following Ukrainian legislation, isn't she? She wants to be here, doesn't she? She can't sit here, can she? You put her in the hall, you have 300 votes, and you appoint her minister. But let him be a responsible person. Nobody's telling you to take it. Let her come here and your coalition will vote for her. It's not a secret that this person is new to us in Ukrainian politics. And with the results, everyone in the world already knows. Bring her in here, and don't let everybody down, you don't have them, they don't have you. Because there are wise people sitting there. And now, regarding health care. With all the figures you've made on record, I'll remind you, at, at, there, that authority, when we were given orders, in 2012, there were 4 percent of the gross domestic product. In the equivalent, it was $7 billion. Today, you say, you've allocated a lot, that's less than 3 percent, which is less than $3 billion. In Law 6327, your coalition promised less than 5 percent of the gross domestic product for health care. What do we have today? Today's the beginning of the reservations, let's move this to the future, from the 20th year on. And so it is constantly, there is fornication of words. I say again, I don't need to throw any stones at your side today, because today is a big religious holiday. But once again, when we talk about oncologicals, 390 million is actually enough for the first half of the year. And that's the same amount that's going to be in the next year. So if we have a development budget, make it proportionally: As much as the income is going to go up, increase the cost of medicine. Today it's not medicine, it's not development. We'll dig in all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u107	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u108	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, welcome to the Christmas of the Holy Virgin! Let it give reason and government to all politicians today, and yet it is within our power to bring this war to an end. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! You've been running the budget on time for the second year, and that's good. But the budget is so raw. Please tell me, what are the costs, what income will the subsidy be paid to the citizens? Two million citizens have already been left with subsidies. And people today are standing in our reception room calling for help. Tell me, please, thank you for asking for Shahov's request. I have asked you several times to pay attention to Luhanskina, the Station Lugansk district. We've allocated money to build a transition from LNR, DNR, and 20 million dollars to seem to have been invested. But when I went there. There was a normal report, everything was fine. But when I saw with my own eyes how people are standing, I wanted to say in the barn they're standing, in the heat they're falling into darkness, they're dying right in line, right there -- it's the genocide of the Ukrainian people and the robbery of the Ukrainian people! Please make a special commission and head towards the Station-Lugan crossing. Secondly, please tell me, who is Kobolev at all, that he can comment on the price increase for gas, the price decrease for gas? I'll say he's a thief who was robbed of 1.5 billion dollars by the Ukrainian population, taking a bonus. Naftogazu should comment on the position of Minister of Energy and Fuel, the coal industry itself, Nasalik, whose miners demand immediate release and investigation, why they have not yet paid the miners' wages. Why is there no modernizing the coal industry that can give 5 percent of GDP to our nation? Please tell me, why isn't he commenting on this position today? It's very good of you to hear that "Our Land" has collected over a million signatures for lowering the price of gas. God forbid you have enough understanding, and don't raise the price of gas in general for the Ukrainian population. Don't go into the IMF! Go with the Ukrainian people! And you can still give Ukrainians Ukrainian gas at Ukrainian price today because you have 1,000 cubic meters of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u109	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u110	1,000 cubic feet [1,000 cu m] of gas costs 1,033 bracelets. Do twice as much, but not according to the "Düsseldorf plus" formula of 7 grand, and you want to raise the price of gas to 13,000 today -- you don't have the right to do that. Give the Ukrainians the price of gas. Please give the Ukrainians a normal life in their country. And then the war can end when they stop stealing, looting, and when they start to develop and modernize our state. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm forced to make a note. I ask you not to use words like "genocide" on the eve of the 85th anniversary of the terrible tragedy of the Ukrainian people. Please do not take advantage of the consequences of the great tragedy of the Ukrainian people in political discussions. And, colleagues, when we want to criticize someone in the discussion, we can call facts and criticize them. And I ask that we here, in this room, endure a high level of ethics as representatives of Ukrainian society. Thank you. Self-help is Wojcietsky's.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u112	The government invested 3 percent of GDP growth in the 2019 budget. In fact, it is a judgment because the patient is in a coma and the doctors refuse to bring him back to life. 3 percent of the growth will allow Ukraine to double its GDP in just 24 years, if it were 5 percent, after 14. Today, Ukraine’s economy is 5 times smaller than Poland’s economy. Even if the Polish economy doesn't grow, we won't be able to reach the standard of living of people with 3 percent growth in 24 years. And this is a sentence for the country, it's a sentence for every Ukrainian, because there's nothing to wait for a better fate in their own home. That's why we see terrible numbers of Ukrainian labour migration in Poland and other countries. Why is this happening? Because the state, the government, returned to them with their backs. Because stimulating the economy that leads to a better standard of living is not a priority. Because the state has decided that an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs by 16.7 billion dollars, or 25 percent, is more of a priority than financing a full-scale energy savings programme. In doing so, the IMF budget is proposed to increase by 60 percent, with an additional budget of nearly 2 billion. And it's all for our money with you, dear Ukrainians. You ask, how can our money stimulate economic growth and improve the lives of Ukrainians? The answer lies on the surface. Launching a full-scale state energy and energy efficiency programme. The most effective program of "heat credit" has already demonstrated that for every bracelet the state invests, there is 1 bracelet in which people invest money. This program allows people to warm up their homes, reduce their consumption of expensive energy resources. It is thanks to this program that the state immediately returns 20 percent of its investment in jobs, materials. And most of all. This program gives birth to a new type of Ukrainian who builds his own home and controls his own expenses. And so it makes corruption impossible, and people count every penny they invest in in their own homes. And the government is proposing instead to maintain the same level, by the way, of the 400 million 'heat loans' budget, with a total energy efficiency fund of 1.6. This year we didn't get a penny, by the way. And this is in terms of reducing subsidies to 55 billion. So the government is telling the Ukrainians today: against the rising price of gas by at least 20-23 percent you won't get the support you need either to reduce energy consumption or to reduce social support, you'll still be slaves of the subsidy system, only on a smaller scale. Make 16.7 billion, not on the IMF, but on energy conservation. Give people the opportunity to use their own money effectively, and you will see economic growth, not the pre - death state. Stimulating internal investment is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u113	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u114	Incentives of internal investment may be due to taxes on the capital output. This releases tens of billions of dollars and reduces the pressure on business by tax authorities. This will give a powerful boost to stimulate economic growth, real economic growth. Therefore, the priority for 2019 should be rapid economic development because of the effective increase in the money of Ukrainian taxpayers. People have the right to demand support from the State, not the reinforcement of the police state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u115	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Anatoly. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Turn on the microphone. Maybe see if the card is in Mr. Anatoly's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u116	I've got her. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. I am a member of the budget committee, and we will certainly consider the details of the government's proposals. I mean, today we are. I would like to welcome the acting minister of the budget committee, because I think we have a document that we can analyze. What decision will we make, of course, will come only out of national interest, not out of politics and populism. I want to say that this year will be very difficult for us to adopt a budget committee, as it's clear that we're all demonstrating how to divide. But how can you raise more income in the budget? And so I think as the elections go on, there's going to be more and more populism. And I think that everyone who thinks about Ukraine, not the place he wants to win the election, we have to think about Ukraine. And that's why I'd like to encourage you to think about Ukraine. We're going to go through these elections and the next ones, and we obviously don't really have to change the course of our movement to Europe. But with the opportunity, Oksano Sergiyevno, I'd like to address you today, which I think would be easier to understand. I'm talking to all my colleagues. You know, today, I've counted: about every day, every day, we're at war with Russia, we're spending 250 million a day, 250 million. And whoever says we have to divide into other programs, we have to understand that we can't execute this program. Our problem is to protect our nation, and to speak honestly about it. And when we don't talk about it, that's why we're not very sincere about our voters in the elections that we're preparing right now. But I'm addressing you, Oksano Sergiyevno, that we talked a lot in your report today about how we actually distribute there. But as we add to the profit side and how our economy works, here, whatever Oleg Lazko says, we need to think seriously about how in this year's program how we increase the income. And here we are, unfortunately, with this budget of us. I'm not very optimistic. And the second part. Obviously, we've talked to you before that we have a tragic budget plan. The answer to that question, three years of planning, I didn't hear it, which means.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u117	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u118	I'd like to take that into account. Since I don't have a plan for our budget plan, I would like us to work with the members of the Supreme Council and prepare and adopt the budget on time this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u119	Thank you. From the People's Front, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. He gives the word to the head of the Bourbaku faction, Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry that this basic document that we're going to be entering next year, we're going to be looking into an empty room, but it's already a question of the responsibility of some deputies. But I wanted to thank the government for the budget being made and that we have the opportunity to start discussing it professionally, preferably to have a discussion on the site of the Supreme Council. The main thing is that this budget is a growth budget, and these figures, 3 percent of gross domestic product growth will provide them. We have to do everything we can to make it 5 to 7 percent in the coming years. I'm convinced that our coalition government is trained enough to ensure this. The requirements of the People's Front that are already foreseen in this project, we've already seen. The main thing is to finance national security and defence measures at least 5 per cent of gross domestic product. This rule was introduced by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. And thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, for continuing it one more time. Because we can talk about a lot of important issues, but without the protection of our country, it makes no sense. The main thing is to stop the enemy, stop the aggressor, raise our military. military forces so that we can repel Russian aggression. Next. You've already confirmed that, and this, I see, is also provided in the budget, this is an increase in the salaries of our military personnel by 30 to 40 percent. It was the People's Front initiative. Thank you for supporting her. And it's a good thing that this isn't just about the military, it's about all the law enforcement officers: both the DDSN, the National Police, and the patrol police, because everyone needs to get paid. Next. I am convinced that there is a need to increase the cost of social protection for our defenders. For the first time in the People's Front budget this year, the status of participants in combat activities in the ATO area of internally displaced persons has already been established. And this year, 41 million dollars have been funded. And we can tell you that this week a four - room house was purchased in the Lviv region. The ATOs, the VPOs, get the money, and, I'm convinced, in the next budget, it's going to be at least 200 million dollars. But most importantly, I am asking you, Volodymyr Borisovich, that this budget should provide for the continuation of all the reforms that have been initiated in this room. Education reform. You know, "New Ukrainian School," it started. There are shortcomings, but we'll make it up to them. Health reform, reform of the National Police, continue to repair roads. I think it's an initiative of the People's Front, supported by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, to continue the experiment on excess revenue from customs to get them on the local roads, and it will continue next year. I think the hall will support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u121	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u122	And finally. Dear colleagues, the People's Front has repeatedly stated that we will not allow the adoption of the budget to be turned into a competition for populists and demagogists. I see you here, you're critical and you're talking a lot, and then you're standing here in line and you don't listen to questions from the government. So when are you honest? When do you criticize here? Do you then go with your notes? So, dear fellows, we must prepare professionally for the adoption of the budget, the country should.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Maxime. [[Applause]] So, now, colleagues, speak to the national MPs. But with your permission, the time is limited, there's six minutes to play. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nine minutes. Nine minutes for the National MPs. Please record: 9 minutes for the national MPs. It's actually a full-reading procedure, so three minutes. It could be either six, or nine. Please, Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Glaucus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u126	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Honourable MPs, respectable government, head! In fact, when we listen to the budget, each of us has a lot of feedback and a lot of criticism in terms of what really lacks the funds for the key things -- weapons, social costs, medicine, education, local communities today don't get enough. And these challenges that have come upon their shoulders can be very difficult. And that's why they really have problems today in areas of so-called decentralization reform: maintaining schools, gardens, FAPs, schools and so on. But what I'm trying to say is that it's not about the lack of funds. Everyone knows it's not enough. And what I want to say is, what does Freedom always say and our leader, Oleg Tuggnibok, where did you get the money for our economy, how do you get the economy out of the shadows, how do you make it work, and how do we get the budget to be developed, not the budget to be eaten, borrowed and asked for? So we've proposed a number of steps -- this is the adoption of an anti-oligarchy package of laws that would actually be able to get the economy out of the shadows, remove the oligarchs and start paying taxes, really so that our nation would be rich, rich, and Ukrainians wouldn't go around the world and work here. And there are good reasons for that. For more than a year, we have been fighting for four years like fish for ice, proposing our laws. Put them to the vote. There's already a call from local councils, more than 200 local councils that supported Freedom to put those packets up for review. What's there to talk about, what's the law? What they would give: first is the elimination of private monopolies, which is tens, including hundreds of billions to the state budget; this is the fight against offshores, which today Ukraine suffers and this order of over 300 billion dollars a year leaves, goes beyond the territory of Ukraine. And we don't need IMF, we don't need credit, we don't need that money. Just get the oligarchs to pay taxes and everything, and it'll be enough to budget both for medicine and for education. We suggest lowering the price of gas. Kistion claimed that "The Crushing" last year earned 250 percent. So what we're suggesting is that there's a possibility of lowering the price of gas by 200 percent for the population, not raising it, and it's going to save almost 60 billion dollars on subsidies, or 100 billion dollars, that's where the costs are. And there will be no need for people in line with the extended hand to ask for subsidies, there are those costs. Set our law to get the state back to lottery control, that's tens of billions, about 20, 30, or 50 billion dollars into the Ukrainian budget. Why don't you want to support it? Because your environment, your oligarchs take advantage of it. So Freedom calls for the elimination of those schemes, Rotterdam Plus, that are causing the Ukrainian economy almost 70 billion losses. If you vote that, there'll be money in the budget and we don't need those loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u127	Thank you. From the People's Front, Bennady Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u128	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister! Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I'm going to have a very short message, probably information about what I'd like to see in the budget. And we're all talking about how we need to fill it. Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like us to consider maybe a few things before the budget is adopted. The first thing is a zero declaration. We all know what it is and what it can give us, it's an enlightenment. A zero declaration, but for everyone in our Ukraine. Maximum cross over. move away from the calculation in cash, move on to more cashless form. And then we can see more clearly the cost, and the cost that people will light up and the business that they will light up, they will be able to involve him with us for use and participation as an investment for Ukraine. And the second. I would like to pay attention to the fact that we have been discussing in the hall for several years now, but we can't accept: then the Kabin supports, then the MPs don't support, then there are problems on the committee, - I think we need to unify with regard to the law as such, such as the gaming business. That's at least, we're all talking about not one billion dollars that could be. If we accept it before we adopt the budget, in addition, I'm sure at least we'll have at least 10 billion dollars. Plus minus. There are different calculations, but I think we need to pay attention. I would like it to be separate from your commission on these two issues and that we may consider them before the adoption of the budget here in Parliament. Now for the next one. I'd like to go down a little bit, it's just the local authorities, because there's also today, thanks, including your position, we have a lot of money, but unfortunately not everything is going as it should be. I take the ordinary town of Boguslav, where you, by the way, Vladimir Borisovich, were. We have this trend. At the district council level, it's pretty tempting to get an extra salary for the Boguslavtéplemériezi employees. The Boguslav District Council wants to raise the heating charges. Not because they lack something. They're missing only one -- they don't have enough money to pay their wages, that's 15 or 20 thousand dollars, or 10 dollars, they need 30 or 40 or so. I don't understand what they need. I want you to take control of this because it's not just in the Boguslav region, in Boguslav, that's what's happening in many other areas. Next. That's a lot of money. Today the question of medical reform has been raised, so I want to tell you, I don't know how much you can blame a minister for something, but I know exactly that, for example, in the same Boguslav district, the head of the district administration has completely let go of control of the activity and of the Boguslav district hospital in general, because there are 50 people in the same office. And the reason is that they just put people on vacation. So I'd like you to pay attention to that because they're referring to what's supposed to be a top order. When you go here to the neighbouring ministry, everyone says, "There is no commission, no paper, no lips, no writing." And that's our problem. Hence the unsatisfying medical services.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u129	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u130	From here on out, there are unsatisfying medical services that we provide, at least, in primary medicine. And in the end, I'd like to pay attention. I was addressing the head of the district government. Rokytnian district, Olšanica village Costs are, for three years, actually, the roof is falling. Today, all the children in this school are transferred from the second floor to the first floor because of the threat of falling in the school roof. 267 students in this one. I'd like to make sure that you take control. I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u131	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u132	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished government officials, it is quite fair that you be criticized today by Oleg Lášk. Because look at this budget, you say, the development budget. Extremely low economic growth: 3 per cent of GDP growth for Ukraine is nothing, because against the background of our neighbours, who have five times the per capita GDP, this means that the income of Ukrainians is lagging behind the income levels of Europeans programmed for years ahead. Next, a completely unrealistic inflation rate is set in the budget. Look, do you believe that inflation is going to be like that? Against the backdrop of the administrative increase in tariffs on the gas you're running, which affects inflation, against the backdrop of the critical import dependency of the economy. By the way, you're building an increase in import dependency, look at the macro indicators on which you built the budget. Last year's trade deficit is $9 billion, and next year you're betting almost eleven billion between exports and imports, and this year's import, you're planning to grow faster than exports. What does this talk about? This says that a negative trade balance leads to price volatility, a rise in prices in stores, and a decline in the amount of money. So the rate of the bracelets in the budget, and by inflation, they're unrealistic. But what they're going to do, I'll tell you is that the National Bank of Ukraine will artificially refer to them in order to further pursue the policy of expensive loans, in order to keep the high stake of Nazbank or not, God, to continue to raise it, and thus essentially further reduce the financial depth of the Ukrainian economy. Instead of eliminating the causes of economic weakness, bracelet weakness, inflation, you only deal with symptoms. The reason is that the system’s Ukrainian industry is not developing. So the Radical Party team is proposing a clear absolutely plan for how to do this. And, Mr. Prime Minister, I think the hall would support you if you came here and told me that I came with an industrial reform package -- to take industrial parks to bring tens of billions of U.S. dollars into the real economy. [[Applause]] Adopt a law on free networking that is supported by the FRA, the U.S.S.S.P., the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the USAID, and even the Ministry of Economics. Why hasn't he been taken to the hall yet? Create an Export Credit Agency at last. Vladimir Borisovich, 70 million were put in next year to stimulate exports, and only a percentage of government debt was paid up to 145 billion. So, is this a development budget? No, it's not. It's a stagnation and conservation budget. The Radical Party insists on systematic changes and modernization of the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u133	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Let me remind you that a full-reading procedure is under way. But during the discussion, we missed one of the points. This question to the reporter is three minutes. And I'm asking you to record, three minutes, the reporter, and then the closing word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Three minutes to report. We can't do any more. So, Halasyuk. Monsieur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u134	I have this question on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian Chernobylites, their Lebanese countrymen, who phoned literally before the plenary. It's in the next one. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides for the entry into force of the Bill 4442 proposed by the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk on the full recovery of the benefits to the participants of the Chernobyl AES accident. On the other hand, I have a question: is the Constitutional Court’s decision being implemented into the State budget? Because if it isn't, I don't understand why the Constitutional Court judges were elected yesterday, and why the Constitutional Court and the Constitution? Then take the Constitution and put it in the cabinet of ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u135	I would like to inform you that I am continuing the session until the matter is resolved. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u136	Thank you so much for asking. In the State Budget, the project, which is being presented today, has set up a number of social benefits that require effective legislation, including some 2 billion individual payments, including through Chernobyl programmes. As for the execution of a judge’s decision, there is also a separate article for the execution of a judge’s decision. Yet these are specific decisions of judges for specific individuals or companies. But we're ready with the people's deputies when we're looking at the state budget one of the subcommittees, that's all the social costs, let's work together and look within the balance that there is, how to put priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u137	Thank you. Gennady the Clumsy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u138	Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u139	Kodola, Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u140	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Thank you, colleagues of Hennady Creature, for your word. Dear Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich! The decentralization that you and I have advocated since 2014 is one of the most successful reforms in our country today. And today in the formation of the State Budget, I'd like to ask if we can stand the course that we started at the very beginning so that the funds that remain in place today don't go to Kiev, and yet our cities and the newly created united communities develop at the rate that we took with you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u141	Thank you. As I said, decentralization is a key priority that remains unchanged. As you know, the budget and I have made changes to the Budget Code, which not only does this year not limit or add any additional responsibilities to local budgets, we extend their powers and allow, for example, at the district level, local budgets to also go out with certain borrowings for those investment projects that they may have. Plus all the tools: Regional Development Fund, OTG support - to the full extent consistent with the law of the State Budget project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u142	And a final question from the National Deputies. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u143	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Oksano Sergiyevno, I have a little comment first, and then I'll ask you a question. You know, we know what kind of complicated negotiations you're having with the International Monetary Fund right now, but in large numbers, it's pretty obvious. If you're together as a government to see what's happening in places where money is being spent, how much it goes into a corrupt component, believe me, you're going to close a lot of articles that should have been closed. But my question is a little bit different. I applauded you because I always stood up for this three-year budget plan. Because now we've got another budget, sorry, eating, I can't call it anything else. Why not just a three - year budget, as planned? Because it would be with such a formula that we could talk about the development of our nation, not how we could simply eat government funds. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u144	Thank you very much. As you know, a three-year transition to three-year budget planning is one of my initiatives, which I started as the first Deputy Minister of Finance before I was appointed Minister of Finance. What is three - year budget planning? It's when we give the budget declaration for three years, the budget still stays year-on-year. What are we doing this year? First, the Budget Committee has already approved amendments to the Budget Code, which fully implement budgetary planning. I very much ask the people's deputies to take this to the Hall soon, to vote in the first reading so that the changes to the Budget Code will allow us to introduce it. And then we can do not only a three-year budget statement, but also a ceiling of expenditure, efficiency, an overview of expenditure, and so on. We also now provide the budget committee with reference to a three-year declaration that wasn't filed in April months, which is a reference to what it would look like if it were served on time, in order to consider changes to the budget code on three-year planning, you would see what that would mean when we vote on the code. Therefore, I ask you very much for support in the near future to accept the amendments to the Budget Code on three-year planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u145	So, colleagues, I invite you to the conclusion of our debate on the issue of Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Are you from the rostrum or from the rostrum? From the rostrum, please. Yeah, six minutes closing. Please. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u146	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, noble Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies and distinguished Ukrainians! We are now starting a very serious and very difficult discussion on time -- the formation of the budget and the budget for 2019. The government has been very honest about budgeting, based on macro-predictions, which are the basis, not an integral part of the budget. And we create a budget according to the income and according to the expenditure that needs to be balanced between us. And that's an obvious fact. We have very clear priorities for 2017, the 18th and the 19th. They may be far from ideal, but I know exactly that every year we have invested our efforts in the growth of the national economy, and the economy today is demonstrating this growth. We're doing everything we can to secure the Ukrainian army. And most of all, we have a serious problem with you: we have an external debt service problem. And this is not my mantra, and this is a fact, this is a challenge for the Ukrainian state. And that's why the 14th year budget, the 15th, the 16th, the 17th, the 18th, the 19th, the 20th and the next will pay for the sins of the past. I agree with you that Ukraine's economy needs to grow. But to do that, we need to change the laws, so we need investment in our economy. And today, investments don't come as fast as we want. You're talking about a clear economic and industrial growth policy plan, and did I not come to this room and bring up 35 laws that we're considering with you today and 13 of which we've already adopted? There are industrial parks. So all I'm saying is, let's call things our names. And I think it's not just industrial parks, but it takes a lot to make systemic changes to increase confidence in Ukraine, and economic growth will never be without investment from both the inside and the outside. And this is a fundamentally important question. Moreover, we need to protect ourselves and the national economy from wrong decisions that can temporarily warm it up and then cause serious collapse. And we see today that some of the industrial policies of those countries that we considered to be examples are today huge challenges, including for the financial world of the country. For the financial world. That's why we have to follow our very clear course of economic growth. You are right about the need for more health - care funding and more money to invest in our children. More roads need to be built, and it is certainly necessary to provide better Ukrainian troops, including new weapons. But let's not just put the slogans out of this rostrum. Let's take the calculator and just count with you how much it's going to cost us in 2019. Let's sit down and just figure out how much economic growth 3 and plus percent will give us an internal gross product that will pay Ukrainian taxes. And we're going to see how much resources we have that have to be redistributed. Of course, today's budget issue is the prerogative of the Ukrainian Parliament. But I want to emphasize that the budget has to be realistic. We need to understand that you and I are responsible for our nation during this historic period. There will be no loud speeches from this rostrum or from another stronger Ukraine. We need to be aware of all of this. I realized that. And I can tell you that I am deeply convinced that most of the people in this room are also aware of this. So I warn against reckless action. I'm warning you not to overwhelm the budget deficit. I'm warning you to bring the country into a collapse, a rise in inflation, a fall in income, which could be caused by an overcrowded budget and unwarranted expenditure. We have to understand that. You know, I hear speeches from this rostrum, listen, I understand that everyone is fighting for their renown, that everyone is fighting for how people will feel about it. So let's fight about how people are going to live in this country. And it doesn't matter what they're going to be, what we're going to have with you, plus 10 minus 20. Let's just make real wages go up, and we're doing everything we can to grow in today's conditions. Let's do this so that, in fact, we can do a recalculation of pensions, they're talking about a minimum pension. But you're not saying that from March 1st, you're going to have a pension index, plus 139 billion in the budget and 27 billion in the salaries of military personnel. Why we're not talking about that now that you're talking about medicine, which was 4 percent of GDP, I want to tell you that it could have been done, but how. Because from 2005 to 2013, a government debt of $50 billion was borrowed. And at the time when you were funding about 4 percent maybe you could finance 24 because you were taking money, then you put it into questionable projects, then you took it out through offshore, and the country just became poorer. What were the Ukrainians left with? The Ukrainians remained in debt. I consider myself to be completely responsible, and by no means do I have any pink glasses, I have a feeling, or maybe even a sharpened, justice. And I also suffer from the fact that people are living in difficult conditions today. But we need to talk about what we need to do today, at the moment, to make Ukraine strong. And if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u148	And if you ask me about my strategy, my one strategy is that Ukraine should be a strong state. This fundamental force, this force is based on several fundamental things. Of course, the Ukrainian army that defends our borders and gives back to the Russian aggressor. [[Applause]] But we have to give ourselves an answer to that question, and can a weak economy be a strong Ukrainian army? No, it's not. So the next position is my strategy, a strong national economy. And the third position, which is extremely important, is the question of democracy, which we must affirm in our country, including by increasing the responsibility of both central and local authorities, who are now responsible for colossal resources. I'm talking about it like an ex-city head. The colossal budget, which is in the local budgets, is simply developed by some, while other foreigners with fountains are built to please others. But then we see that they have huge, huge systemic problems. And I'm talking about this as an expert, and I think I'm experienced enough. And so, I want to ask everyone, just to call, no matter what party, we have only one state. And it says right from this rostrum, we have our state, we've got it in the state we got it in, but we have a better one. Because our children will live here, our parents live here, our loved ones live here, and they pay these bills today for these sins that have been committed in the past. Let's not make mistakes. Let's finally take our own, such great, small ambitions, just take a side and fight for the right decisions that will make Ukraine strong. Then we can speak with honor of doing what the Lord God has sent us through the will of men. I think it's fundamentally important. So I urge everyone to be completely honest, to speak frankly. Where there are gains, let us say that there are gains. Where there are calculations, let's say they are. But let's actually talk about how to get out of them. We can talk about the country's two budgets in an hour. How can this be accomplished? And you each have your own program and your own vision, but our difference is that every day I work to execute your programs. So, dear fellows, I'd like to ask you one thing. We're starting the budget process today. Please, on your behalf and from everyone: let's start a new tradition, responsible, very clearly calculated, serious, fundamental work, no population, no focus on the next election. Because I know exactly that those who lie, those who speak hypocrisy, those who say what they don't believe, but it's eloquent, they lose it all equally. Maybe for a short time they'll be in favor, and then they'll be in a completely different situation where the whole society will just disrespect them. Let us be worthy of this, I very much ask that we do this work systematically, make Ukraine strong and deeply convinced that nothing separates us from the other side. So I wish us success in this complex work, and I'm counting very much on what we're actually going to make a fundamental document with you, based on the real state of the economy and the challenges of the past. We now have over 400 billion external debt payments in 2019, and no economic growth can compensate and cannot make it possible for us to pay them off. Even, I mean, our fight against smuggling. Every day in two months, every day we increase the budget's income, every day plus 200, 300 million, and that's just the beginning, because there's still a lot of things we have to fight for. So let us unite and make Ukraine strong. Thank you for your attention. Respectfully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Thus, honourable colleagues, the presentation of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019 has been completed. Number 9000. I would like to say that from now on, Parliament is moving to the discussion of this budget, which is already in our field of budget discussion today, because in accordance with article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, Ukraine's state budget for further work is now going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the budget. I invite everyone to discuss And thank you to the government for an active and active discussion. And thank you to all the national deputies for today’s fruitful and meaningful discussion. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:45 I ask you all to return to the hall, and we shall have half an hour, we shall arrive, for questioning and an hour to perform. It's kind of like that. And so at 12:45, let's just start our work right after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. And now we're going to read the questions of the national MPs. We have questions now, according to the order of the day. After we've finished reading the queries, we're going to do a recording of the performances in "The Miscellaneous." Such requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of July 17th, 18th, No. 6-r/2018, and the provision of funding for the Žitomir Region for compensation and relief to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Viktor Razwadowski to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the provision of a public transport stop in the village of Deniši Zitomir district, the Zitomir region for the N-03 section of the N - Zitomir - Chernivci road. Sergija Melnika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the construction of capital repairs covered the Hmelnicka professional electronics company. Sergey Melnika to the Hmelnicke Town Head on the justification for the increase in passenger fares in urban passenger transport. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the problems of non-implementation of the state budget. Dmitry Sphenov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the illegality of individual provisions of the NCRECR Regulation on the Approval of the Gas Distribution System Code. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide funding for road safety measures. Anton Yatzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing underfunding for the road sector. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of urgent response measures for treatment abroad of the village of Bilozur of the Cherkas region of Cherkas region of the Transporter Oleg Alexandrovich. Irina Lucenko to the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the activities of the Lviv Criminal Experimental Enterprise of Movement and Prosthetics. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of the granting of pension benefits, regardless of the age for Lvivogil employees, because of the debt owed to the EU. Mikhail Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prioritization of the inclusion of the TES units working on coal of Ukrainian production, in front of the TES blocks working on imported antracite. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Agency of Ukraine for State Service, the State Labour Service, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the use of effective measures to protect constitutional rights to work. Alexander Kirsza to the Kharkiv City Head on the site of parking spaces and the promotion of repairing the inner-quarter roads in the courtyard of residential buildings on the streets of Heroi Works, 4-A and Barabasov, 46-A. Alexander Kirsza to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the cessation of unjustified pressure and raid by representatives of the Civil Society Organization, the All-Ukrainian Union of National Reforms. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional expenses for the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the accident in Category I CHAES. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 551 of 11 July 2018. Vasil Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the government's decision. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Hmelnicki District State Administration, the Hmelnicki City Council, the Hmelnicki District Public Administration for the application of dual form of training in the professional training of qualified Hmelnicki district personnel. Sergia Labazuka to Hmelnicka District State Administration, Hmelnicki City Council, Hmelnicki District State Administration for the entry into service of the third line of the house on the street of Lisogrinivitska, 4/1 in the city of Hmelnitsk. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovitch to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the creation and construction of a sports rehabilitation complex in the territory of the Starocostinian Military Hospital in the Hmelnicki district. Mr. Alexander Gerega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on ensuring the right of citizens to access justice by supplementing the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 3 August 2011 (No. 845). Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the establishment of a commission and for the inspection of the participation of representatives of the initiative group of the Association of Co-owners of the property certificates of the former KSP "Zorya" for gross violation of legislation during the sale of rations of the former Zorya Stock Fund in the village of Sokolov in the district of Pulin district of Zitomir, for the investigation of the facts of the looting of the property and for the commission of crimes by officials of the Sokol Village Council, for the involvement of the guilty persons in Ukraine's established responsibility legislation. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of emergency response measures aimed at the immediate release of an apartment with disabilities, the liquidator of the accident on CHEC and the category Zekov Valerija Anatoliovich, which has been in the apartment line for more than twenty years and in accordance with the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 31.12.1996 (No. 1589), is referred to as a list of persons suffering from chronic diseases for which it is impossible to live in a communal apartment or in a single room with family members. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the purposeless use of the Ministry of Health of the funds of the loan provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the absence of a report and information on the status of implementation of the project "Improving Public Health" in 2017 – and in the middle of 2018. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors on the non-target use of funds from international organizations and international technical assistance by the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons in the context of the implementation of the State Objective Programme "Restoration and Peace Development in Eastern Ukraine" and "Strategy of the Integration of Internally Moved Persons and the implementation of long-term decisions on internal displacement by 2020." Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of shore-building work with the aim of preventing the destruction of shores in Odessa and Odessa. Dmitra Dobrodomov, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, for the financing of the development of a container forest plant for the production of gardening material with a closed root system in the state-owned enterprise "Lviviv Forest Sectional Seed Centre" at the expense of the state environmental fund. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a situation where there are not enough places to park cars in the cities of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Chekiti, Solovia, Matkovsky) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Commission of Higher Staff of the State Service to involve the Head of the State Reserve in disciplinary responsibility. Mustafa-Massi Najima to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the proposal for sanctions. Mustafa-Masi Nyem to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the introduction of sanctions proposals to the PNP. Oleg Berezuk to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for clarification of the transitional leave payments. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need to allocate additional funds from Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 to equip the state-of-the-art "Inclusive Resource Centre" in the city of Labedin Sumsk. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health on the need for a speedy solution to the issue of providing care for residents of the city of Lebedin Sumsk, a sugar - diabetic area, with an indemnification of insulin. Sergey Lechchenka under the executive responsibility of the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways for changing the schedule of trains for the creation of an additional Rakhov-Costantinovka route with transplantation in Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to Kiev City Head on granting the status of the square to the land along the Obolonsky Avenue between buildings Nos. 37, 39, 43 in Kiev. Jury Wozniak to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association “Krošta” for the preservation of postal objects in remote locations. Jury Wozniak to the executive responsibility of the Director of the South-West Railway Regional Branch to prevent the closure of the Ostróg station from working under item 1.3 of Tariff Guide No. 4 and to restore its proper functioning. Fedor Negoya to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the effects of the technological disaster, which occurred from 23.08 to 24.08.2018 at the company Crimean Titan. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the readiness of energy objects for the heating season in the autumn-winter period 2018-2019. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy for Auditing the Pension Fund of Ukraine in 2018. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate release of the land of Bukovin State Agricultural Research Station of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine to ATO participants. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Director-General of the Ukrodroenergo Private Share Society for Predicting in the investment programme of the Ukrhydroenergo Company in 2018 funds for social objects for the city of Novodnystrovsk Černovetsek Region. Natalia Weselov to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the financing of LNR PP "Legal Aspects of Groups". Vladimir Gusak to Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the 2019 budget request. Vladimir Husak to the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" to provide information on the state of the road transports of the Pat "Urzlzalnica". Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to fund education and medical subsidies from the state budget of the city budget of Volodymira-Volinski in 2018. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance the repair of the R-19 highway in a section from the city of Novovolinska to the village of Suchodola (Volinska oblast). Jurya Boyka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the raiding of the farm farm "Strago O.F." In the Snake Region of Kharkiv, the verification of the legality of the State registry, the return of rights to agribusiness to legal owners, the establishment of the culprits and the invocation of responsibility. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration for the improper operation of Poltava Airport, its inadequacy to international status, its long-term repair work, the purposeless targeting of the district budget for its reconstruction and the restoration of activities in the interests of the territorial community. Victor Krivenk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of the Kiev City Administration, Acting Chief of the DPA in the Right-Handed District of the General Directorate of the DFS in Kiev for the transfer into the tax facility of non-residential dwellings and embedded in the non-residential housing units of the KP "Zitlorembudservis". Victor Krivenk to the head of the public stockholders' association of Naftogaz Ukraine for damages caused by fictitious accidents in the territory of Zaporez. Helen Sotnik to the executive of the Ukrainian finance minister’s duties to provide up - to - date information on the payment schedule of the State and commercial debt. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for increasing subsidies to natural gas for individual heating. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the return of contributions to the USSR Savings. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent funding for the provision of manufacturing and payment of debt on the wages of the Company of the "Cheecht Mountain" State Enterprise. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State policy in the area of GKH, subsidies and immediate repayment of arrears from salary payments. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Public Shareholders' Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the provision of documentation for the Supervisory Board of Pat "NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine on Work, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the National Reserve Agency of Ukraine on the need to verify the ineffective use of budgetary resources and the unlawful release of employees at the National Entity of Salut of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent a rise in gas prices for the needs of the population. Victoria Voytzicka to the head of the public stockholders' association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the terms and conditions of gas purchase. Irina Konstanovic to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the amount of medical subsidies for the calculation of haemodialysis sessions, the treatment of diabetic and non-sugar diabetes, and the payment of salaries to health workers in Volin County. Irina Konstankević to the Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the Conservation of Cultural Heritage and the Creation of a Historic Cultural Reserve on the basis of the village of Olik Kivertsi district of Volinsk Region. Jury Derevjanka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for information on the number of complaints against decisions, actions or omissions of State registries, subjects of the State registration of the rights or territorial bodies of the Ministry of Justice, which were filed with the Ministry of Justice and its territorial authorities from 1 January 16th to the date of receipt of this parliamentary request, regarding the number of complaints that were satisfied and were rejected. Yurya Derevyanka to the head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration on the need to take steps to repair the bridge across the Bistrica River of the Nadvornjan region on the road to the general use of the local value of Battleków-Bilozorin C 090906 and to work on the strengthening of the Bistrica River by the above bridge. Oleg Kulinić, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the need for changes to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health order No. 545 of August 8, 2006. Oleg Kulinić is responsible for the responsibility of Ukraine’s finance minister for the use of budgetary resources for state support to the APC. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of land of all types of assignments that are located outside the cities and villages of Biloczerkowski, Voddarski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyevsky, Skuri district of Kyiv region to the municipal property of city and village communities. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association "Krupposta" for the preservation of local postal offices in Bilocerkowski, Voddarski, Stavishtenski, Tarošanski, Tetiyevski, Skuri district of Kyiv region. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine's Ministry of Finance's responsibility to prevent the destruction of vocational and technical education and its proper state funding. Anna Romanova to the Head of the National Service of Ukraine on food safety and consumer protection in relation to the protection of consumers of the tourist product. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the restoration of the National Museum of Architecture - the Salvation of the Church in the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways, to renew the operation of the Altinovka station of the South-West Railway Directorate. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of response measures to eliminate infringements of the rights of consumers of Kyivoblanergo Services from the provision of electricity. Romana Macola and Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the proposal for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 848 from 21 October 95 until the appointment of housing subsidies. Romana Macola and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Institute of Zolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelnick district government administration for the provision of hearing impaired children with two hearing aids. Mikoli Palamarczuk and Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on improper criminal investigation. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the General of Ukraine on the non-admissive delay in the prosecution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, on the accident of highways on the balance of the Poltava government, ignoring the territorial community's concerns about the need to repair them, creating social tensions among the public and carrying out protests. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the provision of immediate medical care and medicines at the expense of the budget of the disabled child. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomir District State Administration for Gasification and Repair of Roads of the village of Mikolayevka in the region of Emilczyn. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the removal of Russian language textbooks from the educational process because of their inadequacy with the principles of patriotic education of students. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on numerous complaints of refusal to grant subsidies to the social protection authorities. Victor Halasyuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the integration of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with the results of the checks on the activities of the Ecork "Osocorca" public organization. Vitalia Kupriya to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Radehiv Police Department in the Lviv region, which has not completed a criminal investigation for more than 8 years. Alexander Dombrovski, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, to ensure the treatment of a seriously ill citizen of Sweden’s Aunt Ivanovna. Alexander Dombrovski, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, to provide treatment for a severely ill child named Marchisin Mikoli. Dmitry Schencev to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on issues related to the installation of building nodes for natural gas accounting. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of explaining the reasons for the existence of discriminatory pay standards for teachers according to Cabinet Order No. 22 and No. 23 of January 11, 2018. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of R-04 and R-17 R-32 M. The White Church. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the review of the appeal of the parental institution of preschool education "Romashka" of the city of Lanovci, Ternopil district. Aunts Ostrickov to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who is in charge of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, to prevent the export of charcoal. Tetjana Ostrikova to the executive of the Ukrainian finance minister’s duties regarding sources of financing of the government budget deficit in 2018. Sergey Rudika to the Head of the Kamyan District Council of the Cherkas region, First Deputy Head of the Kamyan District Administration of the Cherkas region, for the decommissioning of labour from the current average repair of the car road to the local value of O 241313 Smila - Breznaki - Raigrod - Kamyanka station km 12+800 - km 23+300, with a length of 10.5 km. Sergei Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the restoration of the constitutional right of persons to freedom of sight and religion. Andrija Lopushanski until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the need to allocate additional financial resources to pay off the payroll owed to the Municipal Institute of the “Sambrian Central District Hospital, ” located in the Lviv region. Groups of National Deputies (Lopushenski, Bilozore, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the introduction of the course "Basics of Christian Ethics" as a compulsory subject in all educational institutions in Ukraine. Jurya Berezi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of massive infringements of the right of citizens to purchase housing for the first time without paying the congregation for a compulsory state pension insurance. Jurya Bereza to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the system problems of water supply for the village of Cherkaske type and the village of the city type Guardi Novomoskov region of the Dnipropetrov region. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the immediate use of comprehensive measures to preserve cultural and spiritual heritage. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration, Kyiv City Head for the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine". Groups of National Deputies (Spivakowski, Prodan, and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for documents on admission to higher education institutions. Jury Odarchenka to the Head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine on the conduct of a non-planned examination of "Hersonregiongaz" in connection with their violation of the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine and the commission of unlawful actions in the area of illegal overcompensation to consumers who used non-calculus gas between May 2015 and January 2016, including the regulations of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 619 of 8 June 1996. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for consideration of citizens' proposals for a draft order from the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the approval of certain legal acts on admission to higher education institutions. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take care of children who have diabetes with the necessary insulin. Group of National Deputies (Batenka, Konstankević, Didić) to perform the duties of Ukraine’s Minister of Finance to clarify the practical application of paragraph 168.4.9. The Ukrainian Tax Code in part of the payment of taxes on taxes for renting natural persons (subordinate, emfitevsis) land to the corresponding budget for the location of such land. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on illegal logging in Kiev Borislav Bereza to the Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police in Kiev, for some of the issues of the capital repair and restoration of Lake Almaty and Lake Gnilus in the Righteous region of Kiev. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association, on the situation of the closure of the Lviv Railway Guard station and the use of measures to restore its operation to the fullest extent. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for clarification on the liquidation of the Directorate for the Protection of the Rights of the Child. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the situation around the kiosks for the distribution of the TV News Agency. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the State Migration Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for an objective examination of the collective address of citizens of Tarasov Mikolajovich and Baldwin Viktor Vadimovitch, who live in Odessa, and for religious reasons, refuse to receive biometric documents, as well as to address the relevant issues of the comprehensive protection of human rights and citizens in Ukraine. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of information on the number of households assigned to the housing grant and for clarification on specific issues of the application of the new Housing Grant Scheme. Roman Semenha to the responsibilities of the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the current state of financing and execution of construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of roads in 2018. Yurya Solovya, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, to pay the salaries of the employees of the KNP of the Kosovo Central District Hospital and of the Central District Hospital of Ivano-Frankiv district. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the catastrophic state of the road area of the general use of T-18-08 Zagodne-Borevé-Stara Rafalovka-Police in the section of 41 and 81 (from the village of Rudka (Bile Lake) to the village of Volodymireckik Region of Rivna region). Basil Janitzov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Regional Public Administration on the need for financial security for the restoration of the construction of the public education school No. 6 in Varas District. Alexander Dehtirczuk and Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the proper financial provision of insulin therapy at the level of health care facilities. Victor Vuka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to implement the principles of foreign policy set out in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on the implementation of security guarantees. Victor Vuka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the seizure of power in the village of Jabloun in the region of Cherkas region. Yuri Solova to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, the minister of infrastructure in Ukraine for the repair of R-62 Krivorovna - Černovci on the zero - and 13 - mile [13 km] stretches. John Rybak, acting as head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the non-closure of the Lviv Railway Guard station for freight operations. John Melniczuk to the director of the Department of Health of the Vinnick district government, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of medical care and medical supplies for Valentina Bulega. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities for the provision of commercial hubs for natural gas accounting by means of remote data transmission. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the Anti-Terrorism Operation/Operation of the United Forces in the List of States and periods of hostilities in their territory, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 8 February 1994 No. 63. Jury Lewchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful closure of criminal conduct following the illegal termination of land leases. Jury Lewchenka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to ensure the possibility of buying cruise tickets through the Internet for people with disabilities with corresponding discounts. Jaroslava Markevich to Kharkiv City Head for the destruction of the residence. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the Biocerkow Correctional Colony (No.35), Head of the State Department of the Kyiv Insulator for the possible misuse of physical influence to the prisoner. Alexander Nechayeva to the minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Herson region in connection with the disaster in the city of Armenia’s Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Igor Aleksiev to the Director General of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation for the maintenance of road cover in the Bologna district of Kiev. Igor Aleksiev to the Director General of Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation for maintenance of road cover in the city of Kiev. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the head of the Government of the Public Stock Exchange Society of Crushing, the head of the government of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to provide information on the situation of natural gas production and import in Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Ionova, Jurinec) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health in dealing with the health problems of the Lviv region’s health system. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the electronic educational publication Electronic Manual and bringing it into line with the requirements of today. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the continued and full execution of the decision to pay pensions to internally displaced persons. Jaroslava Markevich to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services for violations of the rights of natural gas consumers. Irina Suslowy to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine to ensure a satisfactory state of road cover for the general use of the state value T-24-09. Oksana Jurinec to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on ensuring school safety and preschool education. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to provide comprehensive assistance to the veteran of Odessa, Angelini Valentina, in order to ensure adequate and safe living conditions. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal extraction of sand by the Chinese company Sinohydra Corporation Limited in the construction of the road to the northern bypass of the city of Žitomir. Bogdan Matkovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of information on the Single National Health Survey Database for certain categories of persons in the health system. Bogdan Matkovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration, head of the Lviv District Council for an additional subsidy to provide insulin to patients with Drogobic sugar diabetes, Stebnik, Borislav, Drogobic district of Lviv district. Ruslana Demczak and Alexander Revega are headed by the Provincial District Administration, the head of the Vinnick district administration for the inclusion of a section of the road T-06-06 "Berdicsov-Ilinci" from the town of Cemetery to the village of the city-type Ruzyn in the list of repairs to the Winnitsky and Žitomir regions in 2019. Ruslan Demczak to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association for the Inadmissibility of the Reduction of Work and the Number of Employees of the Pat Departments "Krošta" in the Oratov region of Winnitsky. We finished reading the queries. Now we're going to the "Victory" section. I'm going to extend my job for 15 minutes so we can have an hour to perform at the Miscellaneous. Just a few more minutes, and I invite all the deputies to the hall, those who intend to. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the National MPs when you're not in the hall. I'm talking to all those who are screaming. If you're not in the hall, I'm announcing the same thing and waiting for you to come back. And then when you're late, I go directly to the deputy, and you stand there and say, "Let's go, because I'm late." So I'm trying to make sure that everyone has the same opportunities. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to be recorded. Please hold the recording. You remember that I only allow myself to speak to those who personally participated in the recording. Please. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka. And I ask, colleagues, that you also comply with the Rules so that the maximum number of people can speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u151	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear citizens, Oleg Ljaska's team supported the inclusion in the agenda yesterday and the referral to the Constitutional Court of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the EU and NATO course. At the same time, we have significant remarks about President Prashenko's proposals, which seem to have been prepared in a hurry to begin the electoral campaign. Maybe the president's office wanted it as good as ever. First, in the constitutional preamble we need to talk about the irreversibility of the European and Euro-Atlantic civilisational choices of Ukraine. Because civil choice is a concept forever, it's a strategic place for Ukraine in the family of free peoples of Europe forever, and the course, it's temporary for decades. You don't have to introduce confusion about identity either. Ukrainians have Ukrainian identities, like French, and German Germans are German, not some abstract European. And all these European nations are united by common European civilizational values. But the main objection is the short proposal to remove from the Constitution paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations on foreign military bases, which will be a strategic mistake. This is equivalent to the actual blockage of Ukraine over the entire period until we enter NATO someday in the future. This condemns us to the solitary military deterrence of a Russian aggressor for all these perhaps long years. This is also contrary to the very course for Ukraine's NATO membership. Instead, it would be right to accept a new edition of paragraph 14 that would allow us to have, before we join NATO, sites of alliance infrastructure and military formations of NATO member states on a bilateral contractual basis. The new edition of paragraph 14 will be a practical way of making more declarative changes to other articles. Above all, the guarantee of lasting peace for the Ukrainians will be both our own strong Ukrainian army and the deployment in Ukraine on a contractual basis of NATO infrastructure and individual military formations of Alliance member states. Thus, the Presidential Bill must be finalized with appropriate amendments after the Constitutional Court’s observations. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party believes that changes to the Constitution require a fundamental governmental approach. They are not to be taken lightly. On the scales of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u152	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u153	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! As a Marjorie MP, I go to my constituency all the time. That is why I would like to talk today about the state of roads in the Cherkas region. At present, this is one of the most important problems of the people of Cherkashina, and in general, I think it's not just Cherkashina. In just the last few months, people have repeatedly blocked roads to reach local and district authorities. A visual example. Yesterday, September 20th, people went on an unscheduled protest and blocked the N-16 road near the village of Cherkaske Heronyevka. This is no longer the first such case. After people blocked the road in August, the district authorities promised to start repairs on September 15. September 15 was over, and with him was the promise of the officials. So people went out again and promised to stand until they started repairing. For information on the state road that is on the balance sheet of the Cherka Region Road Service, and then they are responsible for the repair and financing of the area, as well as for the head of the Church State Administration. In general, this is a very interesting road situation. This year, the government allocated 47 billion dollars to repair the road. Since January 1, this year, 123,000 miles [123,000 km] of roads have been transferred to the district level, with 35 percent of the Road Fund’s cost, which has also worked since this year. In the 18th year, the budget for the district roads is 11 billion and the state in mid-July, I'm sorry, the summer of July was the only area for all of our countries that didn't use any bracelets was the Cherkas region. At the same time, 391 million dollars were allocated to Cherkaščina. Why so? We should probably ask the head of the district government, his deputy, who runs the transport infrastructure, as well as other persons responsible for the state of transport and road infrastructure in the area. But this is like cynicism, or banal sabotage. I want to turn from this high rostrum to the head of the government with a request. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Local authorities form an image of central power. Please pay special attention to the road repair situation in the Cherkas region. In addition, I ask my address, Madam Chairman, to send as an MP's request an additional cost to repair the N16 road near the village of Heronimovka. The people there will stand to the last. The irresponsibility and cynicism of local officials have led them to a state of despair and no one else will tolerate such a situation. On my part, I take this situation for personal control, and I urge the government to do the same. We will never be able to regain trust in power as long as irresponsibility and lies prevail in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I stress once again, those people who have not personally participated in the recording cannot participate in the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u155	Otherwise, it means that people can't sit in the room at all, just push other people's buttons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u156	This is a requirement for personal participation in the meetings of the Supreme Council. Personal participation in Parliament's work is a requirement for work. Let's get back to work. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u157	Thank you to my colleague, Danilino, who gave me his word. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you, dear Ukrainians, I'd like to turn to the problems that plague us in the Kyiv region. In particular, turn to the head of the Kiev State Administration, Alexander Gorgan. It is difficult for him, I know, to be pushed by various political forces on various sides, because he needs to make changes to the budget area, he needs to make some pretty serious decisions, which unfortunately, with little support from the deputies in the district council, he can't make the right decisions. At the same time, I would like to refer to the Commissioners of the District Council, particularly the Commission on Budget Affairs, as to what is happening on the Committee today, on its own board, they will consider issues including tariff rates, particularly the possibility of raising tariffs in separate areas, the district centers of the Kyiv region. I would like to draw attention to the city of Boguslav and the region of Boguslav. Today, there is a tendency to raise tariffs in the city of Boguslav and in the region of Boguslav. This is primarily true of educational institutions, medical institutions, and cultures. This cannot be done for one simple reason. Two years ago, we had such a secret fact that tariffs were up 40 percent in the Boguslav region. After a substantial intervention of both my own and the local individual deputies, the public, a number of activists, this tariff was reduced by more than 20 percent. But at the same time, to this day, Boguslavteplemerja, headed by the district administration, is quite actively seeking to rekindle the tariff. At the same time, there hasn't been a manager at the thermal power plant for months, there's no report to the district council deputies, so we don't really understand what the financial situation of the company is. And the worst part is that these facts are unique, not only in the Boguslav region, but I feel like they're all over the country. Thus, the town of Boguslav and Boguslav district, Boguslavtheplemergage, which uses alternative energy services, should regulate tariffs, not for the purpose of enriching its own pockets, but for the purpose of reducing heating tariffs for the common population and for municipal institutions. At the same time, I would like to turn to another problem – the road between the city of Mironovka and Boguslav, particularly in the village of Vladislavka. That's quite a question. Tender procedures were announced. 81 million, so let's say, tender procedures are complete, there's a winner. I'm talking to everyone who's involved and who has a bearing on helping solve this problem as soon as possible and making way in the village of Vladislavka. This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u159	Thank you. This is what the inhabitants of the region of Mironów and Boguslav need. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u160	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u161	Why do Ukrainians very often not need what the Russians are willing to pay for? Why do Russians falsify history and we don't want to use ours? In the right - hand district of Kiev, there is a historical monument such as the City of Sand. It is located near Lake Gnilus, which is not far from the former river Radosin. A historic place, a place that is known where Jaroslav Wise signed with the princes of Montenegro his decisions, a place that is not only a historical monument, but a place around which much can be done to restore Ukraine’s history, a place that can become a cultural park in Ukraine, not only in Kiev, but not at all. No, it's not. That's different. At KOMDA they went the other way, they did the other way. They recorded this monument as a marsh. A tender was issued on which a private company belonging to the nearby people who run Kiev should clean up and destroy this monument. It's a very interesting story. I'm addressing Mr. Mayor now. Mr. Klitschko, please consider this an official request. I realize that you have no interest in it at all, but it has happened that this is the historical monument of Ukraine, the historical monument of Kiev, is the base for the Chinese. I ask you to stop the destruction of the historical monument, which is recorded in the register number 806, "Pissical Town" and which may be destroyed by your gravel. I want the Ukrainians to have a real story, not a made-up story, like the Russians. That's why I'm asking you to intervene. In addition, I ask the prosecutor's office in Kiev to verify the legality of a tender to clean the lake for 21.4 million dollars won by the prime minister of Sopro Services and which is now trying to use this money to destroy the historic monument that Ukraine needs. I understand that the words "history" and "patriotism" are now being used very timely. It's not words, it's actions, things to prove who you are. That's why either Klitschko intervenes in this matter, or he has a personal interest in destroying it and still washing the sand there. Because it's a very big business. And I want to see whose interests he's going to protect right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u162	Thank you. I invite you to speak to national deputy Oleg Lášk, who was given the word of his six colleagues. It takes 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u163	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, you meet me everywhere as a national leader, for which I am very grateful. As Theodore Roosevelt said: "The difference between a leader and a boss is simple. The leader's working openly, boss. The leader's behind him, the boss is after him." I'm following myself. I'm teaching a new one. And with you, I'm changing our country. I'm often under the impression that I'm coming to town and village, sitting on a tractor, wearing a metallurgy helmet or a cow's breast, painting myself as a simple guy. I'm going to be a No, it's not. I become each of the people I meet to feel their problems and solve them on my skin. When I come to Dobropil, I'm a coal miner, just like Lydia Stepanovna, who came to me in Dobropilla and complained that when she worked in the mine for 40 years, she only got 1,800 dollars of pension. And to help her and hundreds of thousands of miners, I have to go down to the mine, feel how hard they work, and beat them up with a decent pension. When I arrived in Mariupol, I was a metallurgy, like 300,000 workers in the industry, who, through a free policy of power, because of the thoughtless removal of scrap metal, could lose their jobs and wages. That's why I was in the Martenian Tower. And then our team got the approval of a law that eliminated the problem of lack of raw materials. I took the same drugs as you did to Mariupol, which left me with the same directions. And I brought this problem to power, and we're kicking money to repair the road to Mariupol and reconstruct the railway connection. I was in a migrant shelter where Mayor Vadim Boychenk and I bit off a lot of money because of the fate of these people neither I nor you are insured. When I came to my native Chernigov, where the flood took place in the summer, I was one of those people who, with their sleeves down, saved their homes. People who get in trouble are me, because I don't have any other people's trouble. And thanks to our team, 86-year-old Hanna Stepanovna, who lost her home and all her possessions, did not lose her faith in people. When I was recently in my hometown of Komarovka, where I was studying in the boarding school, I felt like a mailman like Tanya and Lena. I picked up their huge bags of newspapers and realized how hard they were working for a penny. And even from this job, they want to get rid of them because Krašta decided to reduce the number of post offices. I came out of the rostrum to protect Tanya and Lena, and thousands like them. And Crucifixion canceled its decision to close the post offices. When I was in Odessa two days ago at the opening of a modern cancer diagnostic center, I saw white tears in the eyes of the people for whom this last hope center was. I felt like one of them, I felt like I was a relative of these people who wanted to have the least chance of a life that we couldn't lose. Therefore, we fight to ensure that drugs are available and that people do not die because of moneylessness and hopelessness. In Lugansk, I was a little boy who cried because his father, Vitalic, works as a blacksmith in a nearby village because there is no work in his native village. And his father earns only 750 dollars, and his parents were unable to raise their son to school for that money. As long as there's one child in the country crying, I can't sleep well. In Novoydar, I'm an artilleryman from Vasa, from Žitomirščina, from Berdičev, who was just 19 years old, and I'm afraid I didn't take a gift, so I gave my watch. I'm him. Because I want him alive to come home and win, so that he has all the means of protection, normal food, and technology. In Kharkishte, I'm the farmer who fights raiders for the right to work on his own land in a domestic enterprise created by his own forces. In Kiev, I am a young man named John of Dobroničivka in the village of Preeslavska, from a multi - child family where nine children are forced to go to Poland to pick up a midwife to feed their younger brothers and sisters because they cannot find a job with a decent salary in their own village. I brought John home, I'll create for myself all the conditions for a decent life, because I'm staying here where my family lives, my wife, my daughter, my mother. This is my country. And we, along with John and millions like John, are Ukrainians to lift our home country from our knees. And when John has a job and a decent salary, then I will be truly satisfied. I will be each of you to more effectively protect your interests, and each of you must be the Lightman who wrestles for his own and fights each other at his own level for a better life for the people. Do you remember three musketeers? It's easy for everyone and everyone for Easy. I am convinced that order in the country should be guided by an iron hand. That's why I'm responsible for the hard but just power, because democracy ends where chaos, anarchy, disorder and mess begins. It's because the President is eliminating the parallel forces that were created in Ukraine under external control. President Lazko won't be a puppeteer of the puppeteers, like President Poshenko is now. Instead of chaos in the country, there will be a strong but just order. The Cylons will not measure their eggs but will capture criminals for which they are paid space wages. Only a strong vertical government can restore the basic rights of Ukrainians — education, health care, protection, and decent living. Doualism in power has led to no response at all. Hundreds of thousands of officials receive space wages simply by forcing people to beat the thresholds of their offices. The judicial branch of power, which must be independent, entirely under the President, the telephone law works again and the laws don't work. The executive branch of power -- the government that has to report to Parliament -- is completely out of control. Even committee meetings, initiatives, and appeals by national deputies are ignored by most ministers. The legislative branch of power does not function because half the deputies simply do not go to work, the majority electoral system opens the door to the power of the transitions that only do business. A fully balanced law enforcement system. New organs have been replicated: NAP, SAP, NAZK, which completely duplicate the mandate of the GPU, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As a result, they were busy squabbling among themselves, and this was seen by all the Ukrainians two days ago when two special forces were nearly shot in the middle of Kiev, and by pressure on the opposition political forces. Meanwhile, crime on the streets is on the rise. Grandma's got the bags on the way out of the store, pulling them out of the streets. From the hands of the Naftogazu officials, the Storks, the Crucifixes, they put billions in their pockets, but no one's investigating their corruption. Our proposals for the Constitution. Dismantling the Prime Minister. The president is fully responsible for everything that is happening in Ukraine, as it is in the United States. The President's impeachment laws and the interim commission of inquiry so that the President can be under control and be held accountable. The reduction in the number of deputies to 250; the abolition of the majority electoral system; the imperative mandate; the possibility of recalling a non-working MP; the reduction in the number of ministries and committees; and the government apparatus throughout the country. The elimination of redundant and newly created law enforcement agencies that have failed to prove their effectiveness, but which are supported by billions of funds raised from the people. Less officials, more people to work with. Choice of judges and prosecutors. Get all the old representatives of this rotten system out of here! We suggest that the people have the right to choose new ones in transparent elections. Major strategic changes. To secure the land behind Ukrainian farmers so that the transnational glytes do not buy our main wealth for nothing. This idea of parliament was already supported yesterday, and it was put into the agenda. And I thank all the deputies who have supported our strategic initiative. State policy is also designed to restore strict control of the quality of food, sanitation and fire inspection in institutions, drug prices control, and essential products. We will make the country a success, with which neither we nor our children will not want to leave. We'll make her that way, dear Ukrainians. Because I'm not alone anymore, we're 20 MPs in parliament, over two thousand deputies from the Radical Party in district, district and local councils, 50 members of the Radical Party all over the country. You're all Easy, just like me, it's you. I want you all to feel responsible and make our country a better, richer, happier country. Together to victory! Your Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u164	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vojcitsky. There's six minutes left from that deadline. Please, National Deputy Vojcitsicka, let me speak to you. Oh, no? Please, National Deputy Lušnjak, National Deputy Lušnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u165	Madam Chairman, fellow national MPs, Ukrainian people! In 2015, after the removal of agricultural inspection and the creation of a new, large, mega-scale body called the State Service, it was forgotten that agriculture, in addition to support, needed more legislative support. What happened in the market today? There's no such function in the state, it's eliminated as an arbitration of grain. Farms that grow their produce are shipped to ports, and international traders, if they don't like quality, are underpriced, and agrarians are forced to pay their price. produce at much cheaper prices, which are in market markets. So I'm asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine to settle this situation, to give these powers to the State Service or other structures that are in the Ministry, and so that people can turn to whom and prove that the products that they produce are actually quality, and get a fair price for it. Last week, I said from this rostrum that Viácheslav Volodymyrovich Jerómin, who is today the director of the Pat "Ukrzaliznica", Department, closed the station "Butch". I want to apologize to him because the station was closed, actually, for reconstruction. She regained her movement and worked in a normal way. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u166	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u167	Thank you. Bondar Mikhaylo, 119th constituency, Brodovščina, Bužčina, Kaminečina, Radehovščina. Territorial communities have asked me to help review the State’s grant policy with regard to OTG. Grants to local budgets from the State budget are determined by the formula. But since the capital is not included in the formula, the government average tax power is significantly lower than the real one. In the example of OTG 119 of the constituency, in terms of the Yultanite OTG, the amount of the under-received basic grant in 2019 is expected to be 2 million 208 thousand dollars at 2 million 331 thousand dollars of the base grant, which was foreseen for the budget of the Yultanic OTG in 2018. According to local budgets, there will be additional costs to be incurred in the development of the community and, in fact, in the maintenance of educational and medical institutions, which will have a significant impact on the financial situation of the Yultanic OTG. Four rural councils were included: Batyatycka, Želdecka, Zubivostystska, Pribyznivska Rural Councils. Ukraine's State Budget Act for the 18th year of the Stone and Bouquet OTG established a reverse grant of 3 million 827 thousand dollars, which is transferred to the state budget every day and in full. However, according to the Finance Department of Lviv ODA, all four rural councils that have entered the unified territorial community have a capacity index of less than 0.9, which is essentially subsidized. Already in the current year, all the necessary structures have created a problem of lack of financial resources, such as the amount of medical subsidies that do not provide full pay, drugs, and current maintenance of health care facilities. Unforeseen expenditure on maintenance of a local social service centre is not available, no provision is made to finance the passage of individual categories of citizens in public transport, local benefits, water supply and sewerage networks, and so on. By August 1, 18, 2 million 657 thousand had already been removed from the budget. The 19th State Budget Act for Kamyanka-Buzki OTG defines the amount of the reverse grant in the amount of 2 million 9,000. Therefore, with a view to providing full pay to employees of energy institutions, utilities, and other expenses of the first nature, I turn to the Ministry of Finance to review exactly the policy of subsidization in relation to the unified territorial communities. And the corresponding letters were sent to me for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u168	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u169	They were sent by me to the Budget Committee and Minfin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u170	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the National Deputy of Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u171	Honourable National Deputies, according to information provided by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, were retraining more than 40,000 teachers for the New Ukrainian School program on September 1. The total cost of the above targets in line with the Cabinet of Ministers decree of April 4, 2018, amounts to over 370 million dollars. In accordance with the programmes approved by the Ministry of Education and Science and under the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the organization and the promotion of pedagogical qualifications were carried out by institutions of postgraduate pedagogical education, which should have been involved on the basis of civil and legal agreements in the execution of relevant programmes and trainers, legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs working under the CED code 85.5, whose practical experience is not less than 1 year old. The standard educational program for improving the qualifications of teachers is a mandatory and selective part, with a mandatory part consisting of 60 - hour ocular sessions, i.e. 8 working days, and a 60 - hour distance course, covering professional teaching modules. During the 3rd session, there was going to be a presentation of the original creative product, that is, the project, the technological portfolio, the teaching methodological development and so on. But we didn't see it. In total, over 40,000 teachers have been trained to train 434 trainers. The above raises a very large number of questions, namely, whether the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine can be considered sufficient to ensure a qualitative improvement in the qualifications of teachers who introduce the new State standard of initial education under the New Ukrainian School programme, provided that only 60 hours were allocated to it in the eye sessions, which is actually only 8 working days. The other one. Can 40.5,000 teachers be considered effective in retraining, considering that only 1600 trainers were involved? Third. Were there actually eye exercises with trainers and pedagogical staff and what can be confirmed: acts of work done and so on, any documents? Four. Have foreign legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs been involved in the above-mentioned retraining? If so, are they licensed? These questions and many other questions arise. But the only question is, do you think that in such a short period of time, using 370 million dollars, you can take and raise the qualifications of more than 40,000 teachers? I don't think so. Please consider my statement as a request to the Minister of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u172	Thank you. We've already got three speeches that I'm asking you to make as MP's questions, those that were named during the various speeches. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka. He was also given the word Palamarczuk. And it's been six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u173	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, our viewers! Today the government presented a draft budget for the 19th year. On Wednesday we looked at it on our budget committee profile. I want to thank the government that the draft budget has been being implemented in time for the third year. In the public, the experts, the interested parties, the local authorities have the opportunity to examine it in detail and to make their proposals, which I am willing to make, including the subject. So go through Facebook, through my official e-mail address. As deputy head of the budget committee, the things we support that match the Ukrainian People's Movement programme, I'm going to make proposals. And then together we're going to convince our fellow MPs and the government to take them into account. Some suggestions that aren't included or that I'd like to make more clearly, I want to make a sound right now. The first is the development of our child rearing, our patriotic upbringing. This is support for Plast. Two years in a row, we're funding the Five Million Plast. This year, I don't see a single line in the draft budget. I'll serve it. My colleagues and I have formed an interfractional association called Plast in Parliament. More than 50 national deputies supporting these initiatives. This is not political activity. And I'll sign that. The other one. Now there's a project called Right to Education. Already in OHMATDI, the first school for children has been opened, which is a long - term treatment so that they do not fall out of the educational process. There are children who, unfortunately, have been treated for years. And Natalka Mosiyczuk is coordinating this project, they've already raised money for 1+1, and they've built this first school, and we have to invest money to pay the teachers for next year. Thank you, Mrs. Greenevich, and Mrs. Suprun, for supporting both the MOH and the MON. And I'm going to make this amendment. A colleague invites MPs to join her in the same way that this could be a multiparty initiative. Dniper's bottom. You all know that roads in the south are primarily broken down by grain trucks. There are calculations by the Ministry of Infrastructure that if you go deeper Dnipro (this is going to cost about 100 million dollars), there can only be more than 1 billion a year for repairs of roads. I'll make these amendments. The Prime Minister personally promised me and Mr. Vadaturske, and other colleagues who were initiating the deepening, two years in a row. We're going to be demanding the same thing for the third year, insisting. Support for Ukrainian song. This year we took the first steps, another 8.7 million dollars. Not even 8.7 million dollars, but 11.7 million dollars, which the Ministry has not yet used in this direction. I'll serve for next year. Support for the purchase of domestic vehicles. We have great electron companies in Lviv, the Tatra South on my own Southmen who produce competitive technology. And unfortunately, Kiev and many other cities prefer to buy imported goods. And they say we're going to buy the country if you reborn that program that was in operation in the 15th year, and I initiated it when the government compensated 30 percent, and then the cities are ready to buy our technology. It's our jobs, it's very important. The question of clarifying the chapter by state guarantees. The state must support large-scale projects. One such project is the Ljubljana Mine. If we start mining our own coal in Lviv, we're actually going to completely replace the imports that are now coming from the aggressor country, they're going to go to Russia under $2 billion a year. Where we didn't go. So far, the government hasn't heard that we need to find a mechanism to give guarantees to investors who are willing to build this mine at their own expense. It's also a job for miners and a lot of other positives for the economy of moments. Support for Export Credit Agency. Today, a lot has been said. It's a disgrace: 79 million for the next year. Once again, two years as a bill voted is sabotaged by the government, it is necessary to increase funding and work actively in this direction. At least 100 million dollars for Ukrainian cultural exports, such as the analog of the British Council, a French institution that promotes culture, education, and supports our diaspora, including financially. There is a need to build a city of transition in Herson. This year, my colleagues and I received money from the state budget. This is a very important infrastructure object for Harrison, which is actually cut in half by the railway. Next year, it takes at least 50 million dollars to complete this project. It's a big question and it's underfunding for the niggers. I talked to the government, and these things we're going to make and make as our proposals. We need to put in the draft budget those losses that are going to be the first year of the tax on the capital out there because we see such an interesting game by the President: he says he supports it, and the government gives a budget that doesn't include it. Then they'll say, "Well, yeah, we passed the law. " We haven't accepted it yet, we will. But it doesn't matter, because then we have to cut costs, we have to increase customs revenue. I think they're understatement. We need to finance, and we're going to make proposals on mass sports and sports for people with limited physical capabilities. A complete space program problem. It's not financed. Many more programs and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u174	Ten seconds, please finish. They're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u175	I'm 10 seconds, yeah. In rocket fuel, after disposal, there's a lot of programs that we're going to serve. Thank you. We're starting the budget process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u176	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u177	In January 2018, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau announced that more than 300 million cubic feet [300 million cu m] of natural gas had been released for more than 1.4 billion dollars. This was part of the Energy-Novowarovsk business. On August 1st, the final decision was made for all assets to be arrested and handed over to the National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets acquired through Corruption. On September 11, a contest was held to find a new enterprise to manage this arrested property, and the winner was identified. But today, September 21, the 30th city of Novoyavorysk continues to be a hostage to the bureaucratic situation in Ukraine. People have been living for the second month without warm water. Today I have addressed Prime Minister Groisman of Ukraine. He said that in the 21st century, in a central European country, there could be no such thing as simply being without water. Children go to school, people go to work, and they have no hot water, and they use some alternative methods that are natural, like stone age, just to wash themselves. So I ask you one more time to make my speech as a request. And Groisman promised me he'd figure it out. So let's see how much the Prime Minister's word weighs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u178	Thank you. I'd like you to define this as a parliamentary request. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Martovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u179	National MP Martovicki, "Occupy Block", 36 constituency district, Pavlovgrad, Ternivka, Prvotravensk and Pavlovgrad region. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, the current situation of billing and payment of subsidies to compensate for housing and utility payments to Ukrainian citizens, is causing great complaints to all residents of cities and villages. Here is what was said during the outgoing meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement on June 15 in Pavlovgrad. This has been constantly emphasized by the people in my constituency during personal receptions and meetings with them. It seems that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which regulates these issues through the adoption of appropriate regulations, does not take into account the existing realities and poverty rates of the vast majority of Ukrainians, particularly the poor pensions, wages and social benefits. In turn, taking into account the conclusions and observations of the social protection services of the cities and districts of my constituency regarding the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision No. 329, which introduces a new order for receiving housing subsidies, but does not provide for a mechanism for implementing regulations, I personally request the Prime Minister of Ukraine to initiate such changes at the nearest meeting of the Government. First, to grant the right to young families whose members are registered at different locations to receive a subsidy under the lease. Secondly, determine the right of households to receive housing subsidies if they have registered minors with other persons, without parents registered, and those living at different addresses and separated. Thirdly, allow commissions in the executive branch of local authorities to decide whether to exclude a person from a family who is serving a sentence or who is being treated in rehabilitation centres, for which purpose these circumstances are listed in difficult living conditions. And finally, replace the inclusion of actual income for those who provide social services for the number of clearly defined subsistence minimums without a decision by the commission. I also ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u180	We have one more question, please form it in the right way. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I'm here with good news today. The point is that this week we've registered a bill that we're proposing to finally cancel all the driver's paper licenses, the paper manuals, and the paper documents that show the insurance poles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u182	I'm sorry, Mr. Mustafa. Technical services, can you find out what the sound is in the room?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u183	This has been the case before.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u184	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! I am again addressing you with good, positive news. The point is that we still have in the country all drivers of transport equipment have to carry paper rights, insurance information and other documents that show that they are entitled to drive vehicles. We've registered a bill that we're fully proposing to cancel this story. It's not anarchy, it's not our romance -- it's actually a real bill that we agreed with the National Police, for which I thank them very much. They agreed with many law enforcement agencies. And finally, when this happens, when we vote on this bill, it's going to happen as follows. If you are stopped by a representative of the National Police, you simply call your name, name, or ID number, or insurance policy number. And already in the registers that are in the National Police, they establish that you are where your photograph is, and they already show that you have driver's licenses, and completely everyone, all the rights to apply them when driving a vehicle. Of course, this bill and these simplifications will not apply to drivers of military vehicles or special vehicles. Nor will this apply to citizens without citizenship or persons who have foreign citizenship because they are not in our registers. This bill suggests that we simplify the access to these registers and to the National Police, to the police, and to all drivers, to register themselves with the photographs. And the other news is not so positive. During this week, OSCE officials have officially warned the government of Ukraine, the National Police, and all law enforcement agencies about municipal values. The so - called municipal guards, now operating in the territory of Odessa, are about to take power in the city. It's not just words. Once again, I would like to focus on this, and I ask you to make my speech as Mr. Habakkuk's Minister of Interior to the head of Mr. Knaziev's National Police. I've said it all over again that it's going to happen. The point is that these municipal guards are completely against the law, and they attribute to themselves functions that do not belong to civil organizations and do not belong to municipal organizations. These are small armies, in this particular case, that are about Mr. Truhanov, who can use forces, special means, beat people, stop people, and buy special resources in an unlimited amount. I just want everyone to understand that at the moment, the Odessa municipal guard has more special means than the National Police in the Odessa area. Just think, they beat people, they stop, and they have the right to do so, given to them by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a license for protective activity. I hope this stops. We found these municipal guards in 48 cities around the country, they're all acting unlawfully, and they're all now violating citizens' rights, and we've got an election ahead of us where these armies are going.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u186	Ten seconds. Ten!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u187	These armies will be used to protect the choice or the choice that local princes need. I'm stressing again, I need them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u188	Thank you. We have two final speeches: this is a performance by the national deputy of Shurma and a speech by the national deputy of the village. And we're going to have to finish our session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u189	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainians, for the first time in Friday’s independent years, when there are very few deputies, we were presented with the State Budget of Ukraine. If we analyze it, it's a long time, we'll find a lot of interesting things. But what lies on the surface. With regard to health care. The government says that this year there is a large sum of 95 billion dollars. If you count this, how much of this is from an internal gross product, this is less than 3 percent. I would like to remind you that for the first time since 2012, when 4 percent were allocated, today the amount has dropped to a maximum of 3. We're being put into the example of Poland, so I'd like to say that by this year, there were 3.6 percent of the gross domestic product in Poland, and the following year, it's already stated, it's going to be 4.8. But that's not the point. Look, we spend most of our money buying equipment abroad, buying drugs from abroad, directing people to treatment abroad. So this is the currency. What do we have in our budget? If we spent about 65 billion dollars in 2012, that's less than 95, but in the dollar equivalent it was almost $8 billion, today we barely have $3 billion. Let's keep looking at what a nice budget envelope looks like. We're told that we're going to increase the diagnosis of our citizens and we're going to allocate an additional 2 billion to Ukrainian citizens. In order to say that this is shameful: 2 billion per 40 million Ukrainians, that is 50 bracelets per diagnosis. Well, what can be tested even if one in three is? 150 bucks is nothing. That's how lies are done. And it's going to take about 10 times as much. Next. You know that under the Ministry of Health there are people who need to leave the country on an urgent basis because we do not have such diseases. The money that was allocated for this year, which is 390 million for the 18th year, was only enough for the first half. For the next year, no matter what income is growing, big money is being talked about, the same 390 million is being allocated, it's going to be enough again for six months. The worst part is, there are no patient records. If the government wants to do good for those people, it has to spend at least 900 million dollars. Next. I'd like to say that here, in that room, those people who represent power and voted 6327 -- the reform bill -- and they said that we're not going to allow less than 5 percent of the funding, just under these conditions, the reform is going to work, and today these people are going to vote for the same budget. All that's allocated to health is money. People don't care what GDP is and what percent is. People want drugs and medical care. This budget is not going to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u190	Thank you. And the final speech is the People’s Derevyanco.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u191	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We have with you the following year -- this is the year of our opportunities, this is the year where we will be able to reload all power in Ukraine, starting with the President, and ending with the Supreme Council, the government, all the ministers, the Attorney General, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, all the officials, starting with the governors and ending with the heads of the Reich administrations. I'm asking you not to lose this chance. And I'm now addressing the middle class, the creative class, the young people, the people who have European consciousness and the worldview who want to see Ukraine as strong European, rich. I propose that we unite around a specific program of action that I think is most important right now. First. What am I offering? I propose not to repair the old oligarchic, corrupt, bureaucratic system that we have now acquired in an inheritance where a small bunch of oligarchs abuse Ukrainians and try to contain it. I propose that it be fundamentally rebuilt as follows. The first is a new economy, it's a new tax system, it's the protection of property rights, it's the legalization of all kinds of entrepreneurial activity. This is an absolute demonization in all areas that will enable us to create competitive conditions, real conditions and the best investment and tax climate. The second is the digital state. It's very easy when you get through your smartphone, your iPhone or any other device, your computer can get through your electronic office all state services without queues, without corruption, where you can give your child, how your child didn't understand what your teacher, the teacher taught in class, go to the website free of charge and get the best video of the best teacher in Ukraine from any class from 1 to 10. It's you can get any service and quick medical care and anything else, just using the digital state, that we're going to do exactly the same as now the Privat24 you're using without even going to the bank. It's the Internet all over Ukraine, all over the country, where there's no periphery, division into capital, or any village or village. These are elements of a direct democracy where we will be able to vote through our electronic cabinet and have our voice, not once used for five years, but to be able to resign any minister, a deputy to appeal, an official. About as is the case today in Switzerland, where people solve key issues several times a year at the level of the state and at the level of their community. This is the element that will enable us to bring back our young talented people who are in internal emigration because they don't believe that this criminal system allows them to influence and control the system of power. I propose to unite around these programming goals and tasks and to do everything we can to win a successful strong European state. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-21-m0.u192	Thank you. And we finished our work day today. I would like to draw the attention of the National Deputies that the next meeting, the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, will be held on October 2, 2018, at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
