ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, take up jobs. So I'm asking my colleagues to register. Please register. [[10:06:59]] 362 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, the birthday of the national deputies, Eugene Sergiyovich Deday, is welcomed with birthday, and Paul Alexandrovich Rizanenka. Welcome to the birthday of our colleagues. Also, colleagues, I would like to report that yesterday the House of Representatives of the United States Congress adopted a resolution on the support of the United States of Eastern Europe and NATO. I would like to remind you that two weeks ago there was a joint visit to Ukraine of speakers from Ukraine, Lithuania, Poland, Moldova and Georgia. And this resolution is actually the result of our conversations and decisions in the United States that have shown that Russian aggression is global in nature and that there are many intrigues about the position on Crimea. All the resolutions have been withdrawn, it states that sanctions against Russia must be extended until the Crimea has been liberated. And I also want to thank the representatives of the House of Representatives of the United States Congress, as well as the heads of parliaments of Lithuania, Poland, Georgia, Moldova for their joint solidarity. Together, we are stronger and our voice is better. The countries of the Balto Black Sea are holding the shield together against Russian aggression. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that we are starting today with further consideration of Law 5435. Yesterday we passed most of the lines. We agreed that we would stop at the right side of 70. And now we're going to continue our review of the rights. I ask all right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. And we're continuing our consideration of Bill 5435. And I would like to invite you to hear from the author of the 70th edition of Olenna Sotnik. The head of the committee, please take your place. Mrs. Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We continue to consider yesterday's draft for the second reading. This amendment refers to a register of persons and who will be the holder of the register. According to the committee he proposes, the record holder will be the commission. But there's a problem with that, because the commission is still an advisory body, it's a non-legal person, and there's a problem with the storage of information, and there's still going to be an arrangement. I propose, however, that the registry holder establish a central executive body that ensures the formation and implementation of state policy on the application of international humanitarian law in Ukraine. It's going to be reliable, right, systemic, and we're going to provide security for the storage of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u3	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u4	Thank you, Comrade Captain, for your next correction. I want to say that article 10, which deals with the Commission on Missing Persons, in the Final Situations, states that the Commission's secretariat, heads and staff of the secretariat, operates on a permanent basis. So there's a structure, there's a functioning structure, it's not a public principle. And in this case, because the commission has an executive body, a secretariat, where workers on a standing basis were determined that such a holder could be a commission. We thought that this would make things easier, that there would be specific workers who would be responsible. And that's why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u5	Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself with Amendment 70. Please. [[10:11:53]] For-78 The correction is being rejected. 71st. Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u6	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Madam Chairman, honourable reporter, is now the only coordinated base that does not exist. Thus, lists of missing persons of the Ministry of the Interior, the Red Cross, and other law - enforcement organizations function in parallel. So by right, we're proposing to define functions. First. The Commission should ensure compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons. The other one. The Commission will be required to monitor the use of this database. For example, it should contain all the information about missing persons, including confidential information, medical information, birthplace, and so forth. The plan for access to this information should be followed by the National Police, the BSS, the Ministry of Defence, the executive authorities and the courts. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that this commission, as the arranger of such information, ensure full control over access to it. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u7	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u8	I thank my colleague Semensi for this amendment. She has the right to exist. The committee made a different point, which is that the register holder's authorization is determined by the register position. And it states that the holder has full access to the information entered in the register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u9	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like you to decide on 71 amendments. [[10:13:41]] For-81 The correction is being rejected. 72nd. So is Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u10	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Colleagues, it's technical, but it's very, very important. The text of the law does not refer to the requirements for software to be used for a new register. So I suggest you write into the text of the law that the software of this register should be developed accordingly (note!) to state standards or to be compatible with software and with a single register of pre-trial investigations and other databases. It's simply the practice of implementing similar legislative initiatives when other national registers are created that there may be huge problems then with implementation, with data protection, and so on. Therefore, it helps to avoid technical problems when a register of missing persons is launched. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for Amendment 72 concerning the register of persons. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:14:46]] For-81 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 73rd. Don't you insist? Please move on. Next is 75th, same as Simeonah. Don't insist. 76th. Don't insist. Thank you, Your Honor. 96th, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues, we are approaching the completion of the amendments by now, and I ask you to return to the hall. And please, Roman Semensi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u12	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! The draft law contains laziness which may allow police officers to avoid accepting and registering an application for the disappearance of such a person. Our edit minimizes these possibilities. That is, we suggest that the missing person's search be submitted to the territorial authority of the National Police at the choice of the applicant - most importantly - without being linked to the complainant's whereabouts or to the missing person. An application for a missing person must be accepted irrespective of the circumstances, place, time, and disappearance, the fullness of the data received by the applicant, the availability of information on the disappearances earlier. Thus, the adoption of such a statement is carried out on a daily basis and immediately by the police body to which it came. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u14	The committee’s comment is that part of the first article of this law states that a missing person’s application for a missing person is submitted to the relevant local authority of the National Police. This article partially took into account the previous amendment 95, and further detailing the method of individual details of the application was found to be inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 96 amendments concerning the application to the National Police Departments, Roman Semenha. Please make up your mind. [[10:17:10]] For-88 The amendment is not accepted. But thank you all for supporting this amendment. 100 repairs, Roman Semenha. Don't insist. Thank you, Sir Roman. 107 amendment, National Deputy Mustafa Nayem. Please, Mustafa. You don't insist, either. 111th, Shuhevich. Don't insist. My colleagues, we have a few changes left. I ask you very much to return to the session room. 113th, Mustafa Najem. Don't insist. 116th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. Okay. The amendment of the people's deputy Kiwalov, he doesn't insist. 124th Semenha. Don't insist. Okay. Olena Sotnik, 125th. Don't insist. Semenha, 126th. Don't insist. 127th. Don't insist. 128th. Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues, we have two amendments left, and I very much ask you to return to the session room. And please, the microphone of Roman Semensi, he's presenting 128 amendments now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u16	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law deals with matters relating to the replacement of a caregiver who manages the property of a missing person. The suggestion is that, according to an interested person, the notary may relieve the caregiver of the property of the missing person of authority. The reason for this may be failure to do so, a violation of the rights and interests of a person whose property has been cared for. In addition, a violation of the rights of persons who are entitled under the law to receive, to retain at the expense of the custody of the property. In this case, a new caregiver must be appointed. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u18	Thank you, colleagues of Semensi. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Semimenach People's Deputy was one of the most active authors and co-authors in the drafting of this bill and in the preparation for the second reading. At the same time, after considering the amendment, the committee rejected it, taking into account the inadmissibility of notarial custody, as proposed separately by this law. And the committee thinks that we can only assume this in a manner defined by valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u19	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify 128 of the amendment of the Semenha People's Deputy, which concerns custody. Please vote. [[10:20:15.]] For-80 The amendment is not accepted. Dear colleagues, I remind you that we are discussing in our second reading a bill now concerning the status of missing persons. We've got two adjustments left, I'm asking you to come back from the towers, from the dining room to the session room. 130 revisions. Please, People's Deputies, Olena Sotnik, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u20	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Now we've moved on to the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Bill. In this case, we consider our specific obligations, namely the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in connection with the adoption of this law. And Amendment 130 details what the Cabinet of Ministers should do, in particular, I propose that it be clearly stated: not only accept and bring into line with the legal instruments, but also the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should approve the arrangements for the provision of financial assistance to the disabled members of the family of the missing person, so that we have a specific document that will specifically detail all procedural issues so that there are no discrepancies. And I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that yesterday we were talking about maybe going back to 51 amendments to including the Commissioner with human rights to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u22	Thank you, Comrade Captain. Like Semenach’s colleague, she is one of the most active deputies who worked to prepare this law for second reading. In this case, the committee notes that the bill does not have the concept of financial assistance, and in part four of article 6, there is the right of relatives to social assistance, which includes financial assistance. And in this context, the rule that it proposes is a standard rule of law, by law, in accordance with this law, to ensure that ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u23	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you to determine 130 amendments concerning the "Transitional Regulations" of the law that we are discussing, the bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:56]] For-84 The correction is being rejected. Semenha, 133rd. Don't insist. And the last amendment to the bill that we're discussing is amendment 132 of the Stonik People's Deputy. Please, Mrs. Oleni's microphone. And I ask all my colleagues to return to their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u24	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Colleagues, we are approaching the conclusion of the bill. And my last amendment, it refers to the possibility of defining, in fact, for the Cabinet of Ministers to provide adequate funding in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2019 in order to pay off this financial assistance to disabled family members. Because we know very well that we often adopt laws, and then these laws are not actually implemented because of the lack of funding. So I think it would be absolutely fair to say that the Cabinet of Ministers would predict this in the State Budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u26	Thank you. The committee believes that any law that is passed, especially in terms that are foreseen and budgeted, automatically entails the need for budget forecasts next year. At the same time, as we pointed out, the bill lacks the concept of "financial assistance". In principle, the committee did not object if the amendment was to pay for the necessary assistance — social and other assistance — to family members and missing persons. That would include what you mean by financial help. So I think we can take this amendment into account. But in the formulation of Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, the project of Ukraine’s National Budget for 2019 provides for social and other forms of assistance to disabled family members who have disappeared.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, I hope everyone is listening carefully to the discussion of important amendments now, and you have heard the wording that the committee head is proposing for amendment 132. I now propose to vote in favour of this amendment, Mrs. Stotnik, that is exactly what we will have, and a signal vote is essentially willing to vote in favour of the important bill that we are discussing. So I suggest you put Amendment 132 of Ms. Sotnik in the line read by the committee head. It's about the social benefits that we're going to ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to put into the 2019 budget for the following year. Please vote. [[10:25:55]] For 112 Correction not supported. But we'll expect that after the adoption of the law, the Cabinet of Ministers will take all the necessary expenditure into account in the 2019 budget. I invite the head of the committee, Mr. Nemira, to the closing statement. Three minutes, please. And I ask all colleagues to return to the session room, and there will be a vote in three minutes. And I also want to pay attention, colleagues, now listen very carefully to the closing statement. During the discussion of Wednesday's amendments, we suggested going back to 51 amendments to include the missing persons committee and the Authorized Human Rights Council, which is absolutely logical. Therefore, we would like to return to that amendment. Please, Mr. Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u28	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like to thank all fellow national deputies who have worked to prepare this law for the second reading. We owed this law because the fourth year is already under way. As I noted, more than one and a half thousand Ukrainian citizens are considered to have disappeared, and this is an estimated figure from the International Committee of the Red Cross. I made a comparison: the Colombian conflict is 4,000, we've already got one and a half thousand. But there are still about a thousand bodies, just think, a thousand bodies in the morgues, in the graves, and you don't know who these people are. Therefore, the adoption of this law, which for the first time regulates the legal status, creates a separate body, a commission that will not only deal with coordination, in fact, with the search and contact with the relatives of the disappeared persons, and with the introduction of criminal responsibility in accordance with the international convention to which Ukraine has joined. This is the first time in this law. It is vital that the Cabinet of Ministers does not delay with the necessary steps to ensure that this commission works so that the budget next year will provide the necessary funds. Because unfortunately, and I want to make this an example, sometimes when laws are passed, then decisions are taken, but they don't work. We talk a lot in this room about the need to provide legal aid to prisoners, lawyers, and their families. Accordingly, on April 18, the Cabinet of Ministers decreed 328, on how to use the funds provided for in the State budget, namely, more than 90 million dollars, including compensation for the cost of services in providing professional legal assistance to ensure the rights and interests of persons deprived of their personal will. These are political prisoners, as we call them, in the Russian Federation in particular. But it turns out that these funds are not yet to be used because the interdeputy commission, which was to be created according to this decision, does not work because, first of all, the Ministry of Finance -- and I appeal to the acting minister of finance -- has not assigned its representative to this interdepartmental commission, the Ministry of Internal Affairs as well. I hope that it will be rectified, I hope that this law will now be voted on as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Mr. Gregory, should we go back to some right or should we vote now? 51-y, okay. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. I would like to point out that the chairman of the committee offered to come back and confirm the 51st amendment. And then go to the adoption of the law in the second reading. So I'm going to put this vote first -- return and then the law itself. But it is vital that the national deputies return to their jobs, go from the towers to the hall, and prepare for the vote. I call on all the national MPs to stop the political debate, to go into the hall and take up jobs. Don't go out, just go in. It's the vote. So I'm stressing that I'm the first to make a proposal to the committee to go back to the 51st. This is the position of the committee, and I ask you to support the position of the committee. So, colleagues, take up jobs. And I'm voting on the committee head's proposal to go back to the 51st Amendment. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And please support the position of the committee. Vote please, colleagues. Please support the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:31:56]] For 223 Three votes. I'll put it back again. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. Not everyone was in the workplace during the vote. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. Leave the government beds. You're ready, aren't you? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 51st. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to be in places during the vote. So please support the return to the 51st. Please vote, please support. Vote! We'll support the committee, colleagues. Vote! [[10:32:59]] For 230 So we're back. Now I'm betting on the confirmation of number 51. Everyone, please take part in the vote. I'm voting for amendment 51. Please vote and please support. Each voice is important in voting. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We vote yes. [[10:33:33]] For 230 So this is supported. And I now put to the vote the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (No. 5435) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights and in accordance with regulation 51. Voting for the law. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. We uphold the law. [[10:34:17]] For 238. The law is passed. Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Colleagues, now. Now, before I go to the next question, me. Two factions came to the fore from the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to the presentation of the two factions of Oleg Lacha. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u30	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Here I was approached by entrepreneurs in the city of Pritika about the installation of modem gas on commercial nodes. It requires entrepreneurs to set up at their own expense, at least 30 to 50,000 dollars has to be paid to install the modem and pass on information about the gas used. This problem applies to all businesses in Ukraine, both small and medium - size, because everyone is trying to survive today, create jobs, pay people, feed his children and his family. Rather than creating conditions for small and medium - size business, the NCRECR puts pressure on them. Imagine a person who trades in kiosk has to pay 30-50,000 dollars for a modem, produce project documentation to calculate how much gas he consumes. So come and count how much he consumes, or set up his own account, this and the counter, this and the modem, so that he doesn't pull three skins out of people. Taxes on space wages, modems for 50,000 dollars, everything in the world pays, and what about feeding your child and your family? Therefore, we demand that the NCRECR cancel our decision, which requires people to set up their modems and pay space money for it. By the way, they're threatening that if they don't install these modems, they'll shut down the gas. You can imagine, millions of people in Ukraine are shutting down their gas because they don't have 50,000 dollars to pay for some meter. All the counters, all the modems, all the other controls should be placed either at the expense of the state budget, or at the expense of supply organizations, and treat each object individually to pay as much as they consume. And they didn't suck out the volume of gas they consume, put out space bills, then turn off, cut off the gas. This policy is wrong, especially yesterday’s decision that gas tariffs are being raised for people on another occasion. We see in this ability to lower gas prices. Profitability of U.S. gas production at 1.5-2 thousand dollars. In people in the house, it's going to cost up to 4,000 dollars, but it's not 10 and it's not 11. So instead of raising gas prices, increasing own gas, own peat, own coal, less buying imported coal, more buying, creating jobs, paying our people's wages. Instead of increasing gas prices, it is energy-generating, not subsidies that preserve poverty and dependence on external suppliers. Energy Modernization is a replacement of windows, doors, boilerhouses, a thermal route at the expense of the state budget. Less import gas, more of our gas, lower tariffs and energy independence of Ukraine, and less looting of people, hence will be a strong Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, I would like to inform you that both the government and our committee have addressed Parliament in foreign matters on the urgent and necessary adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation on crimes related to the crash of the flight MN17 of Malaysian Airlines on July 17, 2014. And I'm convinced that Parliament should support the position of Ukraine, because the investigation team proved that Russian military officers from the Russian Buku were hit by a plane of Malaysian Airlines. And so, colleagues, I propose that we now consider and uphold the two laws necessary to resolve cooperation between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands regarding the investigation of this terrible crime of Putin and the Russian Federation. And that's why we're going to draft the Ratification Act 0194. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[10:39:45]] For 172 Decision taken. Come on, colleagues, we'll take a quick look. I invite you to report to Deputy Justice Minister Ivan Juryovich and then to the committee. Please, to the rostrum, it's open. Where are you going? Go back to Parliament. And I'm going to ask you, as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! The adoption of these bills will ensure effective investigation and accountability of those responsible for this horrendous crime. Five countries joined together in a single investigation, a united investigation team to investigate the crime. In 2014, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution on the need to establish an international tribunal to deal with this case, but Russia blocked it in 2015. After several years of negotiations, it came to the conclusion that it was necessary to decide that one country, in this case the Netherlands, would put in place their judicial system to investigate this crime. This agreement, which is concluded between Ukraine and the Netherlands, provides for the transfer of material from Ukraine to the Netherlands, provides for the possibility for defendants to participate from Ukraine in a video conference in the Netherlands, and provides for the access of Dutch lawyers to their supporters in Ukraine. Finally, I would like to point out that this agreement was ratified yesterday by your colleagues in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, by Parliament, and I urge the Parliament of Ukraine to demonstrate the same operationality and support for these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u33	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Ionov Maria Mikolayovna. Thank you, Ivan Yuriovich, thank you. You can take your job. Mrs. Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u34	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs. We're looking at one of the episodes of the tragedies that the Russian Federation, the Kremlin, is doing around the world. And our duty today is to actually ratify this agreement because it is for the purpose of carrying out the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of this Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation on crimes related to the collapse of the flight of MN17 of Malaysian Airlines, which took place on July 17, 2014. I would like to say that a given ratification will allow it to resolve the issues arising from the persecution and condemnation of persons in the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the crimes associated with the crash of this flight. I would like to point out that we are very grateful to all the representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service who participated in the international investigation team and worked very hard. And also the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration, we have, of course, discussed this issue at our meeting, and the people's deputies, members of the committee, have decided to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council and recommend that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I very much hope that on the eve of this tragic anniversary of the killings 300 people justice will be restored and punished. And not only those who carried out this command but also those who gave the command would be in prison. And I would also like to remind everyone that this is really one of those crimes that the Russian Federation is committing around the world. These are chemical attacks in Syria, and the poisoning of people in Britain, the collision of airplanes, and, of course, the tragedies that are taking place both in Crimea and in Donbas, in our country. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u35	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. And once again, I'm asking you as concisely as possible. Please record. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u36	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Criminals must be punished, the aggressor country must be punished, Russia must be punished. That's why we vote yes, we call on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u37	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u38	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction will support this ratification, because we have consistently stood up and advocated attracting Russia as an aggressor country, as a terrorist country, to be held accountable in all international institutions where possible. Taking this opportunity, I would like to appeal to the authorities of the Russian Federation for immediate release to Ukraine of two citizens who are in international search by Interpol. That is: Igor Lisak and Gregorian, who attacked me, killed completely innocent people on the streets of Kiev and are now hiding in the territory of the Russian Federation. In addition, I pay attention to the Ukrainians and respected colleagues who have tried the personal killer Ramzan Kadirov Denis Sultanov in Kiev, who, unfortunately, is already the late assistant of Amin Okiv and her husband Adam Osmajev. Dennis Sultanov, he's Dingo, in court with a challenge. He met twice with Elijah Ponomarov -- the investigation didn't count, Oleg Lášk -- the investigation didn't count. This international killer is about to challenge Ukraine, threatening the victims: Adam, mother of Amina, and so on. I'm going to all my colleagues, to the Ukrainian public, come to court tomorrow, at 15:45, at the Podilski Court, and tell this killer to take his place, he's in search of Austria and Turkey, and here he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u39	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u40	Still, with your permission, I will return to the MN17 tragedy. You can imagine 300 people getting on a plane absolutely sure that the world is safe. They flew home, went to their relatives, to scientific conferences, and were confident that they were safe. But they didn't know there was a Putin in the world today and there's a Russian Federation, a state terrorist. You ask, what does this ratification give, what can it lead to? It can lead to Putin finally sitting on the bench of defendants and finally getting his conviction as an international killer, not just for these 300 people, but for many, many deaths. I believe that the findings of an international commission of inquiry are sufficient not only to put Putin on the bench of defendants. They're enough to recognize the Russian Federation as a terrorist state. And I would like to remind you that the State's recognition as a terrorist has all the relevant consequences, including full and complete isolation of the country from any international relationship. And this is what I call for the next step to make our partner colleagues in the world and in Europe: to isolate the Russian Federation as a terrorist state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u41	Thank you. And, fellows, we're about to make a closing statement. After that, we'll move on to the decision-making process, so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In two. [[B in m in s a l in]] Will one minute be enough? Will one minute be enough? And that's why. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It's Peter Dusty's Block. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. Then from Fatherland, John Krulko. Please turn on the microphone. Or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Voting for a given decision is another step, a step towards restoring justice. The justice that will bring criminals to the bench of the defendants and punish the murderers, the innocent people who are making these days, what they will want, and how they will want them all over the world. But I have a request for you. Let's take a look together at which of the factions' leaders will personally vote for the decision without going and telling the TV that they are the great patriots of Ukraine and are fighting for justice around the world. And then pick up the transcript, lift the vote, and look again, whose factions are personally voting for Russia to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u43	Thank you. And a closing statement from Fatherland. Ivan Krulko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u44	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, surely, should vote in favour of the ratification project, and this will allow a better investigation into the war crime committed by the Russian Federation in Ukraine when the Malaysian airline plane of MN17 was hit. Moreover, I would like to say and remind you that it was after this disaster that the world realized that the Russian Federation was the organizer of the aggression at the Donbassa, and that I had a different view of what was going on with the killings of thousands of Ukrainians who had died at the hands of Russian troops. And that's why the question of investigating this catastrophe is a matter of honor for the law enforcement system of the world in order to bring criminal responsibility to war criminals led by Putin, who solved the war on Donbassa and annexed the Ukrainian Crimea. And the truth will be established sooner or later, and criminals will be responsible for the criminal laws of the world in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u45	So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up jobs, return to the hall, colleagues, not go out, but come in. From the bed of my colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and come back. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation in relation to crimes related to the crash of an MN17 flight on 17 July 2014 with the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general (10194) on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:52:51]] For 241 The law is passed and the decision is made. Colleagues, the next draft of the law is actually an extension of it, but we need to put it in the agenda first and vote to see it now. This is a draft law on the implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation in crimes related to the crash of an MN17 plane. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, and I ask you to support, firstly, the inclusion in the agenda for the consideration of this bill now. He is adjacent, and we need to consider them together. Colleagues, vote. So I'm voting on the proposal that we include draft Law 8542 in the agenda and consider it now. Please vote and please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:54:02]] For 232 Decision taken. Next offer. So that we can consider draft Law 8542 in a simplified way. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:54:27]] For 202 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Justice of the Lyste Ivan Juryovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill for the implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation in relation to the crimes related to the collapse of MN17. The draft law is designed for the purpose of legislative settlement of the features of the implementation of the agreement in Ukraine, which are not currently in force by law, in particular with regard to the participation of the accused in judicial proceedings in the Kingdom of the Netherlands in video conference mode, the determination of the court that will carry out the requests of the competent authority of the Netherlands, and the guarantee of a defence counsel appointed under the legislation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a view to exercising his right of defence before the Court of the Netherlands. It is important that this matter has features that are not regulated either by Ukrainian or Dutch law. And in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, there will also be a corresponding law that has already been passed that changes the procedure, allowing this kind of process to be carried out. especially the full participation of the accused in the video conference mode throughout the process, unlike the existing practice, when only questioned, or the participation of a witness. So it's also important to add that this law. the entry into force of that law that you have already voted on just as it is bound to the adoption of this law. Therefore, a treaty that you have already ratified will also require the adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u47	Thank you. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Law Enforcement Committee reviewed the draft Law on the Implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on International Legal Cooperation for Crimes involving the crash of the flight MN17 of Malaysian Airlines on July 17, 2014 (registration No. 8542). The bill proposes to regulate the specificities of the contract, as well as to amend the Criminal Procedural Code, such as the draft law, proposes: to determine the order of international cooperation within the framework of the agreement; to establish a position on the settlement of procedural issues relating to the transfer of criminal conduct from Ukraine to the Kingdom of the Netherlands; to provide for a procedural procedure for the execution in Ukraine of the relevant request by the competent authority of the Netherlands, in particular the procedure for obtaining the consent of the person to participate in judicial proceedings in the Kingdom of the Netherlands in videoconference; to clarify their rights; to establish the right of the defender; and to conduct interrogation, etc. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill contains a number of essentials. Attention. The committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to be adopted as a basis and as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Self-Help, Kiral, please. Out of place, right? Turn on Kiral's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, it may be difficult for me to repeat or pick up such empathetic words as my colleague, Helen Sotnik, expressed regarding the criminal activity of Putin and Russia as a State practicing terrorism. I would only like to draw your attention to the fact that Putin is not pressing buttons, he's giving criminal orders, he's specific people with specific names -- Russian generals, Russian investigators, Russian judges, Russian prosecutors, who directly execute these criminal decisions, including our Ukrainian citizens, citizens of other countries. So I urge you to vote for this ratification, but let us also work together to improve our sanctions instruments. We have adopted the Sanctions Act since 2014, which unfortunately we do not use to the full. We don't use international sanctioning tools either. As early as 2012, the United States approved the so - called Magnetic Act — a tool that now includes dozens, hundreds of Russian citizens who violate human rights, and legal persons. Today is an orderly day, and I thank the Head of the Supreme Council, there is a decree to refer to the Council of National Security and Defence, the President of Ukraine for sanctioning about 50 Russian citizens who violate human rights. There's also my bill on amendments to the "On Sanctions" Act to extend the possibility of imposing personal sanctions, and I would like to emphasize personal sanctions against specific Russian citizens who today violate human rights. Colleagues, let us unite to ensure that our response to Putin and Russia’s crimes is effective, not just declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u51	Thank you. From the People's Front, Medunica Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u52	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Dear colleagues, to accept today's ratification is our first duty, including to bring the Russian Federation as the organizer of aggression against Ukraine to justice. Such crimes, such as the collapse of a Malaysian airliner over Ukraine, do not last long. And in the interests of the Ukrainian State, determine who was specifically involved in this serious crime. A group of international investigators has long established the involvement of Russian Federation officers, military personnel, in the deployment of troops into Ukraine, including air defences, which have knocked down planes, military and civilian Ukrainians, including Malaysian Boeing. The adoption of today's Act on Recognition of the Ratified Treaty with the Kingdom of the Netherlands will enable us to effectively conduct investigations, identify a specific circle of individuals and then bring ourselves to responsibility. I am absolutely convinced that sooner or later Russia and its political leadership will pay for everything they have done with Ukraine and with those people who died innocently during this armed aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u53	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u54	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. About the adoption, indeed, of the law we need, please pass the word to John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u55	Turn on Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, well, it's already clear to the world that these bills, these decrees, we're going confidently forward in order to bring the killers of the Russian Federation to justice. But I wasn't just paying attention to you in my previous speech. Look, once again, when voting for the execution of the murderers, once again, when the Supreme Council votes for the invocation of responsibility, there is no Volodymyrna Timoshenko in the Hall of Julia. She doesn't want to vote against the Russian Federation. She doesn't want to bring Putin to justice. She can laugh with him in front of a microphone over the Ukrainian state, and when the Ukrainian state demands that the murderers be punished and that justice be restored in Ukraine and around the world, it is gone, there is no principle, and there will never be a question about the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u57	And, colleagues, the closing statement is from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiyczuk. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u58	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction will support this decision as it did the previous one. Because it's really important to bring murderers, international killers and terrorists to justice. But I have a question, and this is a question to us, to the Ukrainian Parliament, to the Ukrainian government, to the Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Omelan, whom I respect very much for his patriotic position, and most importantly to the head of the Kravutodore Slavomer Novak: and please tell me, what does he do and receives the national salary of the Ukrainians and Americans? I have a question: why does the Ukrainian state pay a salary to a person who actually pointed to Ukrainians and Americans as guilty of the Boeing massacre, justifying a Russian, saying that Putin wasn't guilty of aggression and so forth? Is it so fashionable when gastrolers arrive, three days a week working, getting huge wages, and taking advice from people who justify international killers? We demand immediate investigation and the release of Alexander Kawa from the post of advisor to the head of the Kravutodora and the fight against corruption in the Krautodora because every Ukrainian feels and sees that with Ukrainian roads and where money goes on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u59	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to the decision-making process, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. So I am voting on the draft Law on the Implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on international legal cooperation in relation to crimes related to the collision of an aircraft by MN17 of Malaysian Airlines on 17 July 2014 (No. 8542) on the basis and overall of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote, please support, vote. [[11:07:31]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, welcome to an important decision. The next law in the agenda with which the Committee on Security and Defence has addressed is the draft Act amending Ukraine's laws on the resolution of certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex - participants in the Ucrobanprom State Concert in front of the aggressor State and/or the occupying State and ensuring their sustainable development (6697). And I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of John Winnick. There's very little left, so I'm asking you not to leave the hall. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u60	Good morning, dear colleagues. I would like to remind you what the content of this project, which we first approved, was sent to the committee. The thing is, the aggressor country of the Russian Federation is doing a due diligence work today in relation to Ucrobanprom companies in order to block, bankrupt, stop these businesses. That's why it's specifically proposed for a special period, for a period of aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, perhaps for a period of recovery, reparations, etc., to prohibit the aggressor country from withdrawing whether it's debt from Ucroborprom companies, or to withdraw pledges that have been recorded as collateral in accordance with the relevant debt obligations. Before this project were comments, remarks that we wrote in the resolution before the first reading. The remarks were from the Self-Help faction. They also referred to the need for appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Law against the Legalization of Funds Received by Crime, as well as to the Ukrainian Law on International Private Law. The second was particularly important because Ukraine had actually ratified our powers and obligations under this law to comply with the decisions of courts in other countries. And that's why we have to step away from individual commitments in the aggressor country. There were 8 rights to this project. One job is edited and the rest is counted in full. The principal legal office commented on the second reading. In fact, if you analyze these observations, they are essentially in the legal plane, not taking into account either the geopolitical aspect or the fact that the Russian Federation is conducting armed aggression against Ukraine. Realizing that if you read strictly the rules of law that Russia has violated today, there may also be some comments on the proposal to derogate from certain obligations in the implementation of the decisions of the courts that Ukraine has taken on itself. But we have to do this, otherwise the Ukrainian military-industrial complex will stop, and this will certainly play for the aggressor country. So I ask everyone to support this project in an appropriate way. All the factions were working on it, at the committee level, he received support unanimously, except for missing persons from individual factions who did not visit the committee. So I would like to support you in the second reading and in general with technical legal remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u61	Thank you. So, colleagues, all the corrections that have been made to the committee are supported by the committee. So I want to ask the right-wing authors, do they have any insistence on rights? None. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, not come out, colleagues, but into the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. This is the second reading, all the corrections are taken into account, the committee has done a very professional job, in fact all the corrections that have been proposed are taken into account. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Thus, the discussion is concluded and we can move on to making a decision. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending Ukraine's laws to address some of the issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucroborinprom State Concert in front of the aggressor State and the occupying State and to ensure their sustainable development (No. 6697) in the second reading and in general with technical and legal remedies. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[11:12:48]] For 244 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'd like to report now. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, a statement came to the fore of our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Helen Sotnik. Its card did not work during the ratification of the Law on the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. She's asking that her vote be taken into account for this Law 0194. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u63	Thank you. And so, colleagues, we are moving to the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (No. 7441). I'm reminding you that in this law, we actually have the opportunity to apply for the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This is a bill that is one of the most important to date, and I ask all right-wing authors to prepare themselves for the consideration of this bill. And to the report I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Alekseiev Sergio Olegovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I want to remind you that this bill is final in a series of laws necessary for the creation and proper functioning of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. And today, from today's vote, your second-reading vote depends on how the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine will function and work, and the main thing is to evaluate our international partners in this bill. Right now, about the position of the committee. At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 June 2018, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice on 11 July, at its meeting, considered proposals from the subject of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Act amending the Law on Justice and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The committee prepared a comparative table and reviewed 218 rights and proposals from the subject of the legislative initiative. As a result of the review of the rights and proposals, 80 rights are counted, 1 of them is taken into account in editorial terms, 4 is taken into account in part, 116 is rejected and 13 are not defined by the committee. The second reading suggestions are as follows. First. The first-reading position of the court case division, which is located in several locations, has been deleted, and the locations of the courts are located in the relevant locations. So there's still the order of the distribution that was in the previous line. The other one. The first reading was deleted throughout the text, proposing the liquidation of the regional administrations of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration. Third. The first reading was deleted, and changes were proposed to regulate the work of the Public Council of Virtue. Four. The position of the first-reading editor for the establishment of a possible involvement in disciplinary responsibility as the judge of the court, the deputy head of the court for failing to execute the decision of the High Council of Justice, has been deleted. The point is that when the head of the court or his deputy performs an administrative function, the work is not directly related to the execution of justice. That's not funny. to bring him to justice in accordance with the decision of the High Council of Justice. Fifth. First reading editing has been removed and changes have been made to the GPC, CDC and CASU. Six. The revised wording of the first reading on the authority of the Supreme Court to which the Supreme Court provides methodological assistance to appeals and local courts on the issue of law enforcement and provides appeals and local courts with methodological information on the application of rights. Seven. The added powers of the head of the Appeals Chamber of the VACS, according to which he reports to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine about the Ukrainian State Court Administration, as well as through the web portal of the judiciary about the vacant positions of judges. One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u65	Let's add two minutes to the committee so that we can thinkfully hear the committee's proposals. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u66	Yes. This rule provides greater transparency regarding the vacancy of judges. Eight. With a view to increasing and improving the quality of the procedure for carrying out a special examination, which will allow not to be extended during future competitions, the proposals for clarifying the documents to be used in the selection of the candidate for judicial office, as well as clarifying the mandate of the CCCC, are taken into account. So the thing is, when a court-martial contest is going on, there's a court-martial test, you don't have to stop this special inspection. By the way, it's very funny when there's a competition for judges in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, so that this doesn't delay the competition. Nine. The proposals are taken into account to supplement the bill by stating that the Ukrainian High-Skilling Commission of Judges in plenary may review the decisions taken by the Chamber or the College on the results of the practical examination. So it's called an appeal. If the judge does not agree with the High Qualifying Commission’s decision, he may submit to a plenary meeting of the Higher Qualifications Committee and review the results of the examination. Ten. With a view to increasing the attractiveness of the position of judges for lawyers, scientists at the VACS, VC, appeal courts, it is proposed that judges, lawyers, scientists, including judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, be added to the judicial internships of previous professional activities in the field of legal activity and science. This compares, compares, and compares, candidates who are lawyers and scientists in the non-judicial sphere with candidates who have judicial qualifications. Eleven. In the case of a court located in a number of locations, there are additional provisions that apply the regional coefficient at the location of the body that conducted the national registration of such a court in order to ensure the sole approach to the payment of a judicial award and to ensure that the principle of equality of judges is respected. The proposal to clarify the structure of the Supreme Court apparatus has been taken into account, including the appointment of the first Deputy Chief of Staff of the Supreme Court. It is added that the court, which is liquidated within a month from the date of the cessation of justice, passes to the newly established court the materials and documents related to the execution of such a court. Fourteen. It is taken into account that the decision of the Supreme Council of Justice to refuse to apply for the appointment of a judge as President of Ukraine is the reason for the termination of a judge's employment relationship. The committee was not defined because of the lack of understanding of the only approach to addressing the issues on the proposals is the key: first, with regard to the new wording of section XI, section 20, "Transitional positions" of the CPC, according to which all matters are concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u67	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u68	Second: regarding the change in the determination of a court of appeal of the CPC. And the third. Also regarding the loss of validity of paragraph 22 of the KPC in the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. What's going on? This is precisely the main issue that concerns the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court, which cases are referred to the High Anti-Corruption Court. Personally, I did a readjustment that goes back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u69	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u70	In particular, I introduced a law that goes back to the first draft of the Presidential Bill. And this is a requirement of the IMF, which they wrote in their letter, that all the cases that are being followed by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. There are a few other views. For example, these matters are handled by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and so forth. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u71	Thank you. We understand the position of the committee. Colleagues, before I go to the right, I want to inform you. Indeed, on the part of the rights, including the most crucial amendments, on which the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court depends today, the committee has decided on the judgment of the Hall. In order for us to have a clear understanding of what and how we vote, I want to say that at 12 o'clock I invite the heads of factions to the meeting on the third floor (the heads of factions, carefully!) In order to be able to explain clearly during the meeting, and to understand which of the corners we will be in the room to support and which are most of them. Now we're going to look at the licenses. Obviously, the number of rights is so that we'll finish the discussion after 12:30. At 12 o'clock of factions, I invite you to a meeting on the third floor so that we can make a political decision, so that when we return to the hall, we can vote on what is expected today, both today's Ukrainian society and our international partners. So let's move on to the right-hand side. I'm going to read the papers as usual, and the authors, if they're going to put something to confirm, by raising their hand. 1-a, Yemen. He insists. Please, Mr. Leonid. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up with a bill that has the title: Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Regrettably, the text of the bill that was given to the Supreme Council in the first reading, in other words, does not correspond to that name, since 80 percent of the text has no relation at all to the anticorruption court and has nothing to do with its activity. For example, there is a law that is called upon to eliminate the activities of the Public Council of Virtue, which, I recall, has no relation to the formation of an anti-corruption court. Therefore, I propose that the title of the bill be in line with the actual text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u74	I would like to remind you that at a committee meeting yesterday, the rules on the activities of the Public Council of Virtue were deleted, and that name is quite fitting. And that's why the committee left that name because the main thing is to regulate the activities of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u75	So I'm going to vote number one. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:24:27]] For-59 The decision is not made. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Sidorovich insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u76	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Given that the first amendment proposal to change the title of the bill has been rejected, I would like to stress which bill we are considering and what. Once again, we read carefully the title of the bill: "To amend the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges" in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court." At the same time, it is proposed that the Court of Justice Act should state that the procedure for the establishment of the Appeals Chambers of the higher specialized judges is in place. I emphasize that we are considering changes to the Courtship Act only in the section of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Please don't push the positions that relate to the Supreme Court of Intellectual Property, this is not the subject of regulation of this law. Please support our 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u77	Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u78	The committee rejected the amendment. Since this law still amends the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, I think it's appropriate if we create it. The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is the first court to actually create a specialized court. And in the same way, to regulate the activities of all the Appeals Chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please vote. [[11:26:28]] For-93 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 8th. National Deputy Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u80	"The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union." We suggest in this amendment that we do the following. In paragraph 2 of section I of section 2 of the draft sentence, “The number of judges in the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Justice shall be determined within the total number of judges of the High Court of Justice by the State Court of Justice in agreement with the Supreme Council of Justice” to replace the sentence “Decision on the establishment of the Trial Chamber, its composition and the election of the Registrar of the Chamber of Justice shall be adopted by the courts of the relevant Supreme Special Court at the suggestion of the Head of Court”. In order to ensure a higher level of real judicial self-government, and thus to prevent external influence on the formation and, in fact, on the actions of these judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u81	Do you insist on voting? Yeah? Please vote. [[11:27:40]] For-81 The decision is not made. Next amendment, number nine. Don't insist on the people. He insists. Please, the People's Deputies of Yuzkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u82	Okay, thanks. With the permission of the presiding officer, I have orders under the headings 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 concerning the same question and the same article. In order to shorten the time for discussion, I ask you to give me two minutes to express my position, and then I will insist on taking it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u83	I'd like to give you an order of two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u84	Thank you. The point is that the prescribed law determines that the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is institutional, financial and organizationally independent. So I propose, first of all, to change the order of judicial self-government in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, rather than the one proposed by law. That is, that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which deals with cases at the first instance, on its organizational issues, such as the creation of chambers in separate categories of cases, should consider this issue by excluding the judges of the Appeals Chamber, first. Secondly, if such chambers are created on a case-by-case basis, their secretaries, who will then lead them, will be chosen by the composition of these chambers rather than by the entire composition of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, including the judges of the Appeals Chamber. And in the High Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, not a separate unit in the apparatus, but a separate unit in the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption. These changes are technically and textically relevant to these changes. Dear colleagues, in order to make this court independent, I ask you to confirm and support my rights under number 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u85	Thank you. Only 13 amendments are the other national MPs. But I'm going to put the amendments you called in turn, except for the 13th. Before that, I'd like a comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we discussed this on the committee yesterday. The point is that we institutionally created a higher anti-corruption court, a higher specialized court. And this is the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court as an institution, not an independent appeal court. This appeal institution examines only the decision of the first instance of this court. So an institutional model is correctly set up, and so the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u87	Thank you. Please vote, Amendment 9. [[11:31:15]] Z-91 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 10. Please vote. [[11:31:32]] For-75 The decision is not made. Next amendment, number 11. Please vote. [[11:31:49]] For-84 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 12. Please vote. [[11:32:07]] For-86 The decision is not made. We'll go back to the 13th after that, and now we'll go back to the 14th and the 15th. First amendment number 14. Please vote. [[11:32:31]] For-76 The decision is not made. And amendment number 15. Please vote. [[11:32:49]] Z-77 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 16, national deputy Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u88	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. My colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the subject of the bill is to amend the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. An article that is now being corrected by our amendment proposes to grant a right (pay attention!) The Supreme Court. What does the Supreme Court have to do with the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court? These are two different courts. This is the first one. The other one. Provide methodological assistance to first and second courts. What is the form of the expulsion of justice, the provision of methodical information? The Supreme Court operates in the form of judicial decisions. We refused to accept the decisions of the Plenary of the Supreme Court. We have changed the form of the Supreme Court. What is this return, what is the methodological aid, which. If the judge is qualified, he is obliged to study for himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:34:21]] For-94 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 19. There's no insistence on a national MP. Number. It insists, the 19th Amendment. Please, the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the issue of cassation work be settled at the 19th right hand. The Court of Cassation, where the Anti-Corruption Chamber is established, and my rights provide for the procedure by which the composition of this Anti-Corruption Chamber is formed, to be administered. Because I would like to remind you that if we have clearly formed the requirements and criteria of their work in the anti-corruption court, we have not done so in the Court of Cassation, because this was not the subject of the law, and this right is intended to regulate the work of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u91	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes, please vote. [[11:35:28]] For-81 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 20, national deputy Yemen. Dates, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have created a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court precisely because we have a serious problem with the effectiveness of fighting and overcoming corruption in courts, including, more specifically, court decisions. The Supreme Court, which will then review these cases, must be made up of judges who are aware of the issue of combating corruption. And this right here is to make sure that those colleges that will be formed in the Supreme Court are made up of professional people who will clearly understand what and how and why they make these decisions, which should be the result. Therefore, a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:36:33]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 21, national deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u94	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Here we consider article 60, which deals with the full verification of the declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, the local self - government. Article 60, part two, clearly determines that the judges’ declarations are checked at least once every five years. I understand that the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should be given special attention, but, no, let's put them on the line, because we suggest that we define "unless otherwise provided by law." So we have the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court not to go through any tests on the part of the National Anti-Corruption Court. Anti-corruption agencies? Why are we doing this? To prevent them from working and putting pressure on the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court? We have to delete this rule. Please support 21 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:37:48]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 22, National Deputy Heratchenko. Don't insist. 23. Don't insist. 33. What's that? Twenty-four? Please, 24 revisions. People's MP Melniczuk. Ah, 23rd. Please, Chumak. National Deputy Chumak, 23rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to say about the 33 and 34 amendments that apply to the general requirements for the appointment of a judge. In our current law, there is discrimination as a trade mark, i.e. it is not considered to be a scientific degree in military educational institutions, nor is it considered to be a general course of scientific and pedagogical work, a legal, general and legal profession in military educational institutions. I'd like to say that military educational institutions and legal education, and there were council scholars, and there was a specialty called Military Law. Military aspects of international law," which is now restored. So, as far as I'm concerned, this is absolute discrimination against civilians and military personnel on a professional basis, and so I'm asking to vote in favour of these amendments that eliminate this discrimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:39:35]] For-52 The "Race" system isn't working. I ask you to vote. The "Race" system isn't working. Please do it again. Amendment number 33. Please vote. [[11:40:05]] For-51 The decision is not made. People's MP Melniczuk. Please. And call the repair number. There was a 24th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. There was 24 amendments for confirmation. And now we're going to move on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u98	Yeah, I just want to understand. We're sitting here with our colleagues. And you just said, 33 amendments or 23, we put on confirmation, the previous one? And before that, we missed the 3rd and the 4th. No one was sounding it at all. And actually, if we voted 23rd, I'm going to ask you to confirm Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u99	I'm listening, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u100	Well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u101	The 24th Amendment should be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u102	Yes, 24 amendments please be submitted for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u103	I'm asking you, I call my fellow national MPs, and it's really noisy in the hall. And to hear if it's the 23rd or the 33rd, it's almost impossible from the hall. And that's why there's something you really don't hear. I heard it was the 23rd, and you asked for the 24th. It was 33rd, now you're sounding 24th. Please vote. Yes. [[11:41:35]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 34 revisions. Please, National Deputy Chumak. Wait, please. Another 25th, please, 25th, it was counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u104	It's clearly written, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u105	National MP Artushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u106	Yes, good afternoon. I'm asking you to sign off on number 25. At the same time, I point out that we have been missed, and we are not, in my opinion, correct for confirmation of Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Because we're just jumping through them. So I'm asking you to make a 25 amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u107	Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u108	And the point of this amendment is one more time, please repeat, because I'm a little confused. Repeat the substance of the amendments that apply to confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u109	In my opinion, this amendment should not have been taken into account, so I ask that it be submitted for confirmation, 25 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u110	This amendment refers to the elimination of the regional units of the SAA. The point is that this issue was discussed on a committee involving the head of the SAA. And we can't eliminate the SAA's territorial units right now because every district unit in the SAA is responsible for a particular region, sees the judicial burden, is responsible for funding. If we eliminate the area units of the SAA and leave the SAA to function only from Kiev to manage all this process, the SAA is not ready and it will be a mess. So I ask you to vote and leave this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. 25 revisions. The committee's asking for support. [[11:43:51]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 34th. Please, National Deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again in the current Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges is a norm that discriminates against officers, civilians working in military and teaching institutions, in the possibility of taking office as judges, because their work is not included in the general course of scientific and pedagogical work, in legal work. I ask you to vote on this amendment, and to eliminate this discrimination to a large number of people in pursuit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u113	Thank you. Please vote, 35 amendments, 34th, sorry, yes. [[11:44:55]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 37. National deputy Yemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! In fact, this amendment is intended to ensure the requirement that we have made in the context of changes to the Constitution in the area of judicial reform, namely transparency of the competition, transparency of the procedure for the selection of judges and the conduct of the examinations. This amendment is designed to ensure that those results, those test results, those test results are published so that all citizens can make sure that the people who have successfully passed the evaluation are the ones who are worthy to be judges. Because today this information is closed. There's information from public organizations that there's been abuse and manipulation of these results within the Higher Qualifications Commission. To take away all these questions, my amendment is aimed at opening these procedures, opening the results of evaluations, tests and exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u115	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:46:17]] For-79 The decision is not taken. People's MP Melniczuk. Please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u116	Mrs. Oksana, look, I'm stressing it again. So we're looking at 24 amendments, and then we're going to immediately include Amendment 34 of Chumak. There's another 25th, 26th and so on between 24th and 34th. So if we've already jumped, let's do it, I'm asking you to put 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 32nd for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u117	The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, who preside over the second reading of the bill, issue amendments only to those that have not been considered by the committee. If a national MP intends to submit an amendment that has been considered by the committee, he simply has to come forward. Thus, the presiding officers, who announce only those amendments that have not been taken into account, do so in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Again, what amendments do you want to make for confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u118	Well, let's start at 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u119	I ask the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u120	The same amendment was already put to the stand just before it was voted in. Once again, this law applies to the territorial administrations of state courts. We've already voted on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't understand the feelings of the people's MP. If you can explain what adjustments and why you want to make for confirmation, we will definitely consider this. Please, come in. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Melniczuk. Sound the amendment numbers and why you put them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u121	Well, one more time, please. Well, the honorary colleague is standing on the rostrum. Look, you can't close your eyes right now. We're jumping, 25th, you're saying we've already confirmed it. And 26th, 27th, well, why didn't anyone sound? If they're there. I want to make it right. Well, please, let's get this fixed up. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u122	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u123	Colleagues, 26, 27, 28 amendments apply to the activities of the local authorities of the State Court. If you want to bet on the confirmation, call it numbered, and for every number of revisions there will be a vote. All of these rights apply to the local authorities of the State Court Administration. Please, if you'd like, step up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u124	The National MP can't explain why he wants to put them on the stand, but Amendment 26, the committee supported, please vote. [[11:49:28]] For-97 The decision is not made. Amendment number 27. Please bet on confirmation. [[11:49:49]] For-93 The decision is not made. Amendment number 28. Please, Amendment No. 28, please vote. [[11:50:16]] For-92 The decision is not made. Amendment number 29. Please vote. [[11:50:34]] Z-87
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u125	So, colleagues, 30 tickets, right? No, it's not. 33rd. Artushenko, which way? 30th. Please, Artushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u126	I'm asking for confirmation on 30th, 31st and 32nd turnaround. Just like in the previous speech that we missed 2nd, 3rd and 4th, which I would suggest you go back and put on confirmation. Thank you. So I'm going to ask you to start with 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u127	I'm betting on a vote to confirm the 30th amendment that was taken into account by the committee. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote. [[11:52:08]] For 101 The decision is not made. 31st. It's partially accounted for. I insist that it be taken fully into account. Whoever's behind this, please vote. [[11:52:36]] For-93 The decision is not made. And 32 for confirmation. The committee supports it. Please support 32 revisions. Please vote. [[11:52:55]] For 104 The decision is not made. Next, 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u128	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Two moments I was going to say. First. The amendment excludes provisions that apply to the particular order of the selection of the judges of the Courts of Appeal. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the creation of a High Anti-Corruption Court, not an election to the local courts of first instance and second. This is the first question. Question two. I'm talking to my colleagues right now who have broken the 24th to 32nd revisions. I explain to the audience and those who listen and to the national MPs those who care about the legal field in which we will exist. You're destroying the judicial system, you're causing a collapse. It's going to be a collapse of the courts, of the judges who will be in line from Kiev to Zitomir, in a live row to resolve the banal issue of paper purchase. Secondly, this will lead to additional spending from the state budget to 1 billion dollars. Do you understand what you're doing? I'm asking you, stop this practice, don't balance the law or destroy the judicial system, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for the 34th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. Please make up your mind. The committee turned her down. [[11:54:37]] Z-91 This is not a decision to make. I'm going back to the 2nd and 3rd Amendments. And they were counted by the committee. Please, a word. Please give the floor to the National MP, Artushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u130	Once again, I'm asking you to put on a confirmation of an amendment that we just technically missed -- that's two-a, three-a, and four-a. For confirmation. Start with the 2nd. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to make the same appeal not to balance the bill on which the committee worked so long yesterday. However, for confirmation. Four, yours? Now. We're moving. 2 amendment - for confirmation requires the National MP Artushenko to place. Please vote. [[11:55:41]] Z-87 The correction is being rejected. 3 revisions. Likewise, colleagues, I point out to you that she was supported by the committee, and she looks at confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:07]] For-84 The correction is being rejected. The 4th amendment is the amendment of Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please, the word of Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll draw your attention, colleagues, to the committee's acceptance of this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that there's an obvious practice that has been criticized by "the persecutors" when they give a list of the amendments that need to be broken and these amendments fail. So I have a first proposition: why do you propose to change this amendment because people were working? And I understand you have nothing to argue with. And the second. You do as the "prosecutors" did: vote with one vote to remove any amendments that do not fit in your concept, in your view of the organization of the law. Why are we showing this circus, I don't understand? Let people at least read the laws and say that they see that it's the content of the amendment. I'm sure they didn't read it. Let them argue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u133	Thank you. I've heard you, and the Presidium will not repeat the experience of "poremen" and put to a single vote. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're on our way. Colleagues, I urge you not to balance the laws, I can't set them up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you suggesting that I don't give my word to anyone here right now? I'm asking everyone, please. I give the floor to the National MP, Artushenko, with the request of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, the author of the 4 amendment, to argue your position on the amendment in question. Well, that's the introductory part. Please, Mr. Artushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u134	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, this right is making it difficult for citizens to have access to justice. And the previous speaker in another group I would recommend, you know, not to tell you about predecessors as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u135	Thank you. And I also urge you not to exchange kindness. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for 4 amendments. I'd like to remind you that the committee supported her, supported her. And now she's looking for confirmation, please be sure. [[11:58:40]] For 101 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 39th, Mrs. Yuskovy. Please, Mrs. Aunty's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u136	It's about repairs from 39 to 44, 47 to 48 and 51 to 52. This law nullifies the three-lane system of the court, this rule, this amendment to article 81 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges. It does not apply in any way to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. When the law was passed, it was simply forgotten that a special order of choice was also created for the judges of the Courts of Appeal, all the Courts of Appeal. Instead of creating a separate norm, they were taken to the judges of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. I think it's ignorance first, and secondly, it's not going to violate the order of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. I ask you to delete the entire article.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u137	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u138	The judges of the Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal and so forth. Thank you. After the other amendment, I will not speak separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u139	Thank you. I understand your position, Your Honor, you have now presented your position on the block of amendments concerning the selection of judges. I ask the committee to comment for one minute on why the amendments made by Mrs. Yuskovi from 39th to 48th were rejected. And we'll put them to the vote in turn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u140	Colleagues, as noted earlier, we have an institutional Supreme Anti-Corruption Court which is the only body that has a first and a second institution. Accordingly, there is a certain structure of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm literally. We will resume our sessions for two minutes to now end the vote on this block of amendments to Mrs. Yusak's which the committee rejected. And then we're going to call it a break. Please, Amendment 39. Mrs. Yuzkova insists that we vote in favour. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:20]] For-83 The correction is being rejected. 40 revisions. Please be sure. The committee refused, the author asked for support. [[12:01:41]] For-83 No, it's not a confirmation, it's a rejected amendment. 83-for, no decision taken. 41 amendments, same as Mrs. Yuszkowa. The committee turned it down. Please make up your mind. [[12:02:06]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 42th Amendment to Mrs. Yuskovy. Please make up your mind. [[12:02:29]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 43rd, right, now? We voted 42nd. 43 ms. Yuskovi. Please make up your mind, colleagues. [[12:02:50]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Forty-four amendments, same as Mrs. Yuszkowa. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:09]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Eighty-six. 46 Amendment to the People’s Deputies of Judah I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:28]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Forty-seven amendments to Mrs. Yuskovi. I'd like to make a statement. The committee turned it down. 47th. I missed something. 47th. [[12:03:47]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 70 for. And the last amendment on this block is Mrs. Suzkovy's 48th. I'd like to make a statement. I think I called everyone. [[12:04:06]] For-80
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u142	Thank you. So, colleagues, we are. 80, you don't make a decision. We'll continue the discussion after the break. I now invite all the factions on the third floor to the meeting. Please also contact someone on the committee, perhaps the rapporteur and head of the committee at our meeting. And at 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting this morning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you very much to go back to the session room, and we're still moving on to Bill 7441. Let me remind you that we've stopped at the amendments made by the honourable Mrs. Yusak, we've passed these amendments and we've stopped at the 59th Amendment, sorry, 50 amendments by the national deputy of Yemeni. Will Mr. Yemen insist on 50 amendments? It won't. Let's move on. Mrs. Tetjana Yuzkov. 58 Amendments, Sidorovich, Sotnik, Siroid, Wojcietsky, Semimenich. Colleagues? No, we're moving on. Dear colleagues, especially the amendment authors, I ask you to return to the session room so that we can work on the amendments and then not return to them, please. 54th Janicki. I'm sorry, it's a readjustment, I'm sorry. 55 Amendment, Yemen, National MP. Don't insist. 57 amendment, this is an amendment. Now, Mr. Igor. 57 revisions. Please, Mr. Igor, please. Please don't say a last name, please turn on the microphone. Excuse me, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u144	Thank you very much. Please place 57, 59 and 60 amendments on confirmation, because I think this makes it impossible to organize the work of the DG in accordance with current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm betting on the request of National MP Arthurshenko for confirmation of 57 amendments. Please make up your mind. 57th, for confirmation. [[12:36:24]] For-51 The amendment is not accepted. 59th on request, please stand by for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:45]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. Next one is 60. Please make up your mind. Confirmed. 60th now, 60th for confirmation. [[12:37:05]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. I see that Mrs. Yuzkov is fine. Will you insist on returning to your 51st, 52nd? Please, you have a microphone then. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u146	I want to go back to my colleagues and explain that unfortunately, the reporter is a bit of a violation of the law, first of all, and my amendments, second of all. This is not about the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This is about all the other courts. If you have forgotten to lay down a special procedure for the selection of the judges of the Court of Appeal, they should not be compared to the higher courts. We just need to set a separate standard so that we don't mess up the trilinear system of judicial power. Thank you. And I'd like to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u147	Please, we will vote on the amendments of the 51st and 52nd People's Deputies of Tetjana Yuskov. This amendment was rejected by the committee. Would you like to comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u148	As for the special order of the selection of the judges of the Court of Appeal. The thing is, when we adopted, we reformed the judiciary almost two years ago, and we gave scientists and lawyers who are seven years of age, judges, judges, judges of appeals courts. However, the 81 articles of the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act did not provide an appropriate standard. If this is the case, it should be corrected and made available to the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u149	Thank you for clarifying the position of the committee. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to identify 51 amendments to the Southern People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:15]] For-54 The amendment is not accepted. The next 52th, as well as the reverend Mrs. Yuskov. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:34]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. 59th Amendment. We voted on it at the request of a national MP who put it on the stand, but the author of this amendment, Mr. Lehchenko, demands that he be given the floor. I apologize to Yuri, I didn't just see that it was your authorship and I didn't give you my word. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Look, what's going on now? Now the MPs from Peter Dustenk's Block are overturning all the amendments that were correcting the horror that was in this law in the first reading, which absolutely did not apply to the anti-corruption court, did not apply to appeals before an anti-corruption court. On our first reading, we accepted much of the government’s judicial administration, fully subordinated the judges of the State’s judiciary, accepted the changes to the Public Council of Goodness, and invalidated its role in general. A number of changes were made that do not apply to an entirely anticorruption court. The committee corrected those questions yesterday, and these changes are now coming together. This was my 59th amendment, which referred to the removal from this bill of insanity, which prohibits members of the Public Council from publishing information about dishonest candidates in a court of law. How can they do their work and, in general, what good will it do them if they are unable to publish such information if the public does not know who is who, which candidates are unsavory? How can this be banned? So my amendment was the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u151	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u152	That is, if this amendment is left broken, then you forbid members of the Public Council from publishing information about unfair candidates in a court of law. I ask you again, because I was not allowed to speak then, well, not seen, please put this question to the vote again so that the conscious MPs show their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, the amendment 59 is subject to a vote on the request of the author. But I'm stressing that we're putting it in the context of confirmation right now. I mean, who's behind this amendment? For confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, now, who's up for it. Okay. We're all confused. And now we vote. Who's in, who's in. Please vote. [[12:42:09]] For-59 In any case, this amendment is rejected, Your Honor. Next, if I understand correctly, the 86th People's Deputy of the South. Mrs. Tetjana, 86 of your amendment now. If I haven't noticed any correction before, I'm ready to respond. Please, 86th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u154	I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u155	Don't insist. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Just a few authors aren't in the room right now, if they come back, of course, we'll listen to them. 92nd, so is the people's deputy Yuzkov. We're waiting, Mrs. Tetjana, look at the table right there, 92 amendments. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u156	These amendments relate to the financial independence of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And so to comply with the principle laid down, including in this law, regarding the institutional, financial, organizational independence of the Court of Appeal. So I would like to invite the deputies to take a closer look and support my amendment, which aims to ensure that the public budget has a separate line of expenditure for the court in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. Please comment to the committee. That's 92 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u158	I have repeatedly said, and once again, I emphasize that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is one of a judicial institution that is not made up of the Court of Appeal separately but of the Appeals Chamber, which is part of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So all the funding issues, the financing of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court as such, and it doesn't need any separate allocations to the Appeals Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we are determined by 92 amendments, by 92 amendments. Please make up your mind. [[12:44:38]] For-40 The decision is not made. Mrs. Sotnik, I want to inform you that your amendment to the 53rd has now been announced. I just realize there were a few people. 53rd. Now I'm going to name what, you're going to tell me which ones you want to go back to, which ones you want to sound. 53 amendments were from "self-help," and unfortunately, because of the break. Now, colleagues, 50. 53rd, 68th, 69th, those that were rejected by the committee. If you insist, we are willing to give you the floor. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone. 58th, 60th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I'm going to make 68 corrections and 69 immediately, because. Yeah, and 69th, because they're about one question. It's a question of correct wording and names. Today, we have in our 127th article the term “High Court of Appeal” and we propose that, in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, the words “the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court” be clearly replaced by “the Appeals Chamber of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court”. I don't know why the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u161	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u162	We've discussed this before. This is a universal right, yes, which will apply to all the higher specialized courts, including the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u163	Thank you, Sir Alexia. I ask you to vote. 68 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. She was rejected by the committee. [[12:46:47]] For-55 Overruled. 69 revisions. I'd like to make up my mind. Don't even ask me to vote, okay? Let's move on. Ninety-one corrections, same as Captain. Don't you insist? Okay. 98th, same as Olena Sotnik. 98th. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u164	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment amends article 148. It refers to expenses in local appeals courts. In this case, we also add "the higher specialized courts and the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court." Because you and I understand very well that the courts can't function without adequate financial, financial security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u165	Please identify 98 amendments. [[12:48:01]] For-63 The decision is not made. Next 100 revisions, Captain. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u166	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Changes to 148 articles are also made. We're proposing a new paragraph. In particular, we propose to make clear financial guarantees for the High Anti-Corruption Court and for the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court. In particular, so that there are no funding cuts during the budget period and also to ensure that these courts have the possibility of further funding, which is no less than in the previous period, and adjusted according to the consumer price index of the previous financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u167	Thank you for your clarification. Please determine the substance of the amendment, colleagues, the committee rejected it. [[12:49:15.]] Z-62 The amendment is not accepted. I apologize to Mrs. Yuzkov, have we discussed this with you in 106 or not? Because we're back. I'm sorry, because we were going back and I could get a little lost. So we're at 106 now, and we're moving on, colleagues. I'm asking if anyone has a note, give a signal. Yuzkova, 132 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u168	I'm very surprised, because I want to go to the reporter personally and ask him that in the following, we hope, including the national MPs whose rights have been rejected, that the reporter in the next will still be expressing the committee's opinion, not commenting on the amendments that are broken. This is about excluding from the text of the law the amendment of the procedure of the Civil Service Council, which is in no way relevant to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. And as for the amendment number 132, because it was in principle not accepted, this position, before, I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Please comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u170	I'm going to answer to Mrs. Yusak, and I'm always in the position of the committee, and, in particular, with regard to the Public Council of Virtue, I'm also voting in support of these amendments that are trying to break out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u171	So we don't vote on Amendment 132, Mrs. Yuzkova doesn't insist on it, she just sent us a message about the Rules procedure and commenting on the amendments. 135 revisions. Mrs. Yuzkova, don't you insist? Okay. 136th. Don't you insist? Thank you. What? What, Mr. Ruslan? 136th is an amendment to Mrs. Suzkowa's, it wasn't counted by the committee, so I just appealed to her. 137 amendment, Mrs. Yuzkova. 137 revisions. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u172	No, I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u173	Thank you for your comment. 138th. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u174	Yes, I've already said that the consolidation of the principles of institutional financial and organizational independence of the Appeals Chamber of the High Anti-Corruption Court. Sadly, though, the parliament did not agree. That's why we're going to have a system at the moment when the judges of the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption will appoint the secretaries of the Trial Chambers to deal with the individual cases of the Court of First Instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u175	Thank you. So Mrs. Yuzkova has prepared a series of amendments to this block of legislation concerning the selection of judges in substance and their appointment. But she did not insist on voting on the amendments only to present her position. The next amendment is 143 national deputies. Please, Oleni Sotnik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u176	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 143 amendment, we've talked a lot about the fact that this particular bill and its title, that it has to ensure the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court, has nothing to do with most of the rules that are proposed in it. This is a powerful example. Here the initiators of the bill tried to regulate the new judicial service, and also to give it a new status, social guarantees and so on and so forth. So tell me, please, what is the attitude of the Judicial Service in this judicial system to the activity and work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court? Therefore, our amendment refers to the exclusion of all norms that introduce completely new principles. I think we can't do that, we need to talk about it, we need to work on it, we need to analyze what problems there are today, and we need to solve them accordingly on the committee, the committee of profile, along with the experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Please comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u178	Yeah. Thank you for the correction. Dear Mrs. Helen, I would like to remind you that according to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act, the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court are to be protected 24 hours a day, and according to a statement, their families and their close relatives. Thus, the law has decided to regulate the work of the judiciary, to increase it before the Supreme Anti - Corruption Court is established, and to enable it to perform its functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u179	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make a decision on 143 amendments, this is the MPs from Self-Help. The committee turned her down, Mrs. Captain introduced her. Please make up your mind. [[12:55:27]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Next, 144th. Please, People's Deputy Lehchenko microphone. This amendment was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u180	Lechenko, Freedom. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is also the case with this judicial service, the judicial service. In fact, it has just been said that there has been an open manipulation or even a lie when it has been said that it is imperative that these provisions be included in this bill now because the judges of the anticorruption court must be protected. Judges of an anticorruption court may be protected by other authorities, not necessarily in this bill to write in such detail the matter of the judicial service. But why is he listed here? And it's written here that, in fact, this is how it's formed, this judicial service, that it becomes completely dependent on the will of the President of Ukraine. And that calls completely into question the independence of the judiciary, and that violates the Constitution. Because if the Judicial Protection Service is completely dependent on the President, and its task is prescribed here, in particular, to secure public order in courts, in court hearings, yes, we understand who will be thrown out of court, who will not be allowed into court, the community will be thrown out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u181	30 seconds. Finish up, please. Thank you. The rapporteur was already commenting on a similar amendment to the self-help MPs, so we're just defining 144 amendments. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[12:57:10]] For-65 The decision is not made. Next amendment. 150th. So does Mrs. Sotnik. You have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u182	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment suggests removing sub-paragraphs 44 and sub-paragraphs 46 of Chapter XI of the Final and Transitional Regulations, and this again refers to the social protection of members of the Judicial Service and so on and so forth. But I'd like to go back to that question. I absolutely agree with you that, indeed, the law provides for special ones. a special form of protection, and the judges really need that protection because they will. Well, let's say that we put justice into very dangerous cases and influential people. It's obvious. But I still have a question for you. Is it necessary to create a new pocket, in fact, a security service that will somehow have to be formed, picked up, taught and so forth, and so on, if we have the right structures in the system today. In the law enforcement system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u183	Please comment to the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u184	I want to tell you that the Judicial Service doesn't just need it for the High Anti-Corruption Court. Unfortunately, in many courts there are many cases where legal proceedings are violated, court hearings are closed, and judges are risking their lives. Repeatedly, there have been times when the judges of the meeting have been taken out by the guards. And so to normalize the judicial service and make it powerful, that would be a very good step to ensure justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u185	Thank you for your clarification. Please request a colleague to determine 150 amendments to the Stonik People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:23]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, look, we're getting close to you to that block that the reporter was talking about during the introductory speech, a few amendments that the committee didn't define. I suggest I leave this block behind now. We'll continue to move on the amendments that the committee decides on, and when we get to the finals, we'll go back to those amendments, we'll discuss them, and we'll make a decision. Moreover, there is still a meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with colleagues in order to reach a final decision on the bill under discussion. Is there no objection to what I have offered? We didn't hear. We've reached the block, we've reached the block, Mr. Sobolev, amendments that have no committee decision. I suggest we skip them now, move on where the committee's decision is, and before the final vote come to this block, okay? So I'm going to announce that now from Amendment 157, this is Mrs. Zalitschuk, who doesn't have a committee decision, to the amendment, to Amendment 162, I'm just not announcing these amendments, because I'm gonna take a look at this. 157th, yeah, we're moving them to the end. 157-161a -- these amendments will be considered at the end of our discussion. Thank you all for your understanding and design. 164 amendments, Mrs. Captain, please. What's that? Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Jemec showed up. And he insists. Mr. Jemetz, I'd love to. 162 revisions. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u186	Thank you, Madam Chairman. For the time being, consultations are under way on how to prescribe a correct appeal. We've already turned, more specifically, you've already turned, all those who destroyed those amendments that were confirmed by the committee yesterday have turned this law into a tool to destroy those anti-corruption things that we've already introduced. Such as the Public Council of Virtue, such as the special basis for the establishment of an anticorruption court. You see, the honourable colleagues, that we have already, from the simple law that we should have resolved the issue of appeals, have already turned into a tool to destroy those anti-corruption methods that we have already introduced in Ukrainian legislation. When an amendment was put in place that was adopted yesterday by the committee on the grounds that we would not allow this law to interfere with the activities of the Public Council of Virtue, which was to be controlled by the CDC in the formation of a new court, we turned it into the same thing, you and those who voted for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u187	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u188	They have altered the essence of this law and turned it into an instrument of destruction, not aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u189	Thank you. Please comment on the rapporteur for 162 amendments. She was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u190	As for the Anti-Corruption Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation. The point is that we've just passed the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act, which will consist of the first and the second. an appeal, first and second instance. We have plenty of time to respond to a separate bill on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Chamber of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This is where I think we should change the law, not just adopt the changes to the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. Once again, we're going to have this court built up for almost a year. We have plenty of time to reform the legislation in the field of cassation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So I would like to stress that we are now going to be determined by the amendment of 162 of the Yemeni people's deputies, which the committee has rejected. I'd like to make a statement. Those amendments that you, Mr. Yemen, were talking about, we left them behind. [[13:03:59]] For-75 The decision is rejected. Next up is 164th. Please, Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u192	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will not insist specifically on this amendment, it refers to the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code, particularly as the case relates to the transfer of the judge or, for example, the transfer of the court directly. But I have another warning. Colleagues, I just want to point out that until most of you were in this room, literally two deputies from Peter Dustenka's Block were destroyed, really, this bill that was normally sent by the committee yesterday. We've only got two cases left to determine, conceptual remedies: this is an appeal against the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and the second, this is the moment of entry into force of these changes. All of it. Nothing else. Everything else has been corrected by the committee. Now, in fact, we're back to the problems that have to do with the Civil Service, the Council of Virtue and many others. I think it's just being done on purpose to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u193	Thank you. Please define for amendment 162, oh, I'm sorry, 164th. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:37]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 83 "for" only. 165 revisions. Anointed One does not insist. You don't insist, do you? Okay. 167th, Captain. Olena Sotnik, 167? Thank you. Don't insist, Mrs. Sotnik. I'm sorry, yes, you were just at the end of the page, so I didn't notice. Mrs. Yuzkova, 166th. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. What are we talking about? It was suggested that in the event of the liquidation of the court and the referral of a case that had already been brought before the court, it would not be necessary to change the jury’s composition if the territorial jurisdiction did not change. So the legislator suggested that when changing the composition of the court, we do not start the case first. All cases, which will thus continue, will be reflected in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which will again accuse Ukraine of incompetence and violation of rights. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please identify 166 amendments. [[13:07:13]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next 169, Captain. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u196	Thank you, Madam Chairman. But, look, this is how we moved to this amendment, which the committee didn't define, I want to point out here, starting with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u197	Yeah, yeah, I'll be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u198	167 amendments to 171 are exactly the same amendments that the committee didn't determine. So I suggest we move them and look at them separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u199	Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to announce that we still have a block of amendments that we haven't decided on yet, 157-161. Next, the second block is 168. There's only 168 committees that haven't been identified. And then the block is 171-175, which is also not defined by the committee. We are moving them to the end of our discussion in order to make a decision. Now. [[B in m in s a l in]] 171-175. 170, it's a committee. Now. Now, colleagues. Now, colleagues, 168th. 168th, the committee isn't defined. Yes, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, 170. You're absolutely right, Mr. Ruslan. 170-175. Thank you for that clarification. And we're going to start with 176 revisions. It's counted. Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the principle of "justice goes to judge" is required in all codes. And I think it has to be saved. Otherwise, the reorganization of the courts will lead to procedural chaos. So I'm going to ask if we have 176 now, 176-y, 177-y, 178-y, 179-y for confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u201	Thank you. These are the amendments of the author. Of course it is. It's the repairs of the self-help team. No, it's the first self-help amendment. 176th. Please, Sidorovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers and listeners, I want to focus now on important points. Now, once there was a meeting, I've already talked about it, in fact, now the MPs of BPP are falling down the law, because it's completely balanced compared to what the committee did. Two important blocks. First. Once again, these amendments eliminate the changes to the Master's Procedural Code. Which has an economic trial before the High Anti-Corruption Court, well, they'll explain it to me. Why are we going to the farm process when we're discussing the launch of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court? One second. If we're talking about the changes taken into account by the committee to the Criminal Procedural Code, where the case goes to the judge, and that's going to apply to both the anti-corruption court and the Midan case, and this has to be taken into account, then in the economic process, it's a very different principle. I want to point out that when we started administrative litigation, we didn't work on this principle that the case went to the judge. There'll be different judges, there'll be another selection process. Why are we going in there? Other things that apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u203	Give me 15 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u204	Other things that relate to definition, an expert in law, other processes of regulating the economic process, can't be regulated in the law. So I ask the Hall to support our amendments and vote green. Don't go into the field of regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u205	Thank you for a thorough explanation. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for 176. Your next one. I will certainly give all the authors the floor; we will not violate the Rules in any way. Please, I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment, 176th right now. The National MP's voiced his position, now we're listening and voting, we're moving under the Rules. [[13:11:46]] For 1052 Edit declines. The next amendment was echoed by 177th, the authorship of the Southern People's Deputy. Mrs. Tetya's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u206	Thank you. I want to keep going. Neither the civil process nor the economic process have anything to do with the execution of justice in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which is essentially its own criminal court. So by applying the principle of "the case goes to the judge," I'm even ashamed to say it, in the agricultural process, it's ignorance. This was corrected by the committee. At present, the law is specially balanced. I wonder if the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" can vote for this law on its own, because, as I understand, other factions like this will not support it. Thank you. Please support the changes that have been determined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u207	I'm asking you to determine for Amendment 177. This is the 177th Amendment. It was put in for confirmation. [[13:13:16]] For 104 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment for confirmation, 178th. The author of Anointed One insists that he be given the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u208	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I will quote simply the rules of the Rules. According to the third part of article 120 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, under the pressure of the national MPs, a discussion may be held that is considered by the Main Committee, rather than simply a stupid one, sorry for the word, call the amendments, and say that they do not fit someone. I'm stressing that yesterday the committee was working fairly professionally and, indeed, ruled out those positions that are being clashed today by the representatives of the Peter Prashenko faction consciously balancing the law. And so we're actually not going to be able to get the votes of the entire House, the entire Parliament for this necessary legislative act. So today, really, we exclude from the body of this law, many factions of different factions have applied such regulations, those rules that are totally unrelated to the Anti-Corruption Court, that is the economic administrative judiciary, the civil process, and so on. Therefore, today, honourable colleagues, if we are balancing the law, we will come to the following rule: Article 121, Part Five, Part Six: The bill is not generally voted if as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u209	Finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u210	if, as a result of the substantial change proposed by the Main Committee, the drafting of the individual structural parts of the bill results in contradictions or omissions. And there's going to be a lot of gaps here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u211	Please identify 177 amendments. I'm sorry, 178 corrections. [[13:15:06]] For 101 Yeah, that was 178 revisions, because 177th before we didn't support it. But there's no room support here either, 101 votes just for. That's why the amendment is rejected, 178th. What's that? 179th. Now, one minute. 179 amendment, it was rejected, 179th. Please put to the vote 179 amendments, it has been rejected, but National Deputy Melniczuk insists. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've got it. I understand, Mr. Amazanov, well, let's see now that if it's not the author, he doesn't bet. And that will be our rule forever. But we have the author here, not the author here, we vote here, we don't vote here. He put it to a vote, it was rejected. He's putting her to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:16:34]] Z-71 The amendment is not accepted. It was 179 amendments, which the committee rejected, and the hall immediately rejected. Let's move on. If I have not seen someone from the authors of the amendments rejected, please let me know. What's that? Again, a hundred. We just voted 179th. Let's move on. I'm just looking at who the authors are and who insists, and I give them my word. Your 209. It's the 209th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Self-Help. Who will report? Sidorovich, Sotnik. 209th. We're at 209 revisions. It's a self-help amendment. Who will represent her? Please, Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u212	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The law, adopted in the first reading, reads: "The Law of Ukraine on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service" and some others" and the following changes. In our editorial, we propose sub-paragraph 5, which amends the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, in the relevant articles, to leave it in its proper form. Guys, we've come to the point of complete absurdity. Let's do it in the Act on Changes to the Court System in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, except for the pension insurance of military personnel, and we'll decide on the pension insurance of police officers, the National Guard, I don't know, there, the submarines, there and, and someone else, the social workers. Well, let's not be absurd. Let's not go to the military's pension insurance under the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u213	Please comment to the rapporteur. We're talking about 209 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u214	This is true of the pension provision of judges who are under military service.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u215	Are you satisfied with the explanation or do you require a vote? Dear Mr. Sidorovich, have you been satisfied with the explanation that this is true of those judges who have served as military officers, well, in their previous lives? Should we vote or not? Let's put it on. Please, 209 amendments shall be put to the vote, as requested by the authors. The committee turned her down. [[13:19:39]] Z-91 The amendment is not accepted. Please turn on Mr. Artushenko's microphone. I'm sorry, Mr. Artushenko, we now have 210 amendments – this is the People's Deputy Levchenk, Mr. Levchenk. We're just moving in order, then I'll give you my word. Okay? Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u216	Thank you. I'm asking you two minutes, because I have all of my amendments and there's two more amendments, they apply to the same question and I don't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u217	Two minutes, please, to the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u218	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to emphasize once again these amendments that we are talking about. This is about the Judicial Protection Service, which, unfortunately, has been prescribed for some reason in this bill, which is absolutely not relevant to this issue, and it has been prescribed that the Judicial Service will be completely under the control of the President of Ukraine, and accordingly will follow the instructions of the President of Ukraine in the context of the admission or non-admission of those or other people who like or dislike one or another of the courts, that is, essentially the effect directly on the trials. It's totally unacceptable, and that's why we have to take it from here. But besides that, considering also that this is my last speech on this bill right now. I would like to point out that this bill contains a lot of rules that, in fact, do not apply to the anti-corruption court, but rather increase corruption in our judicial system. Well, as far as it's possible, because the judicial system is already so corrupt that it's obviously difficult to increase further, but this power, this majority, is finding it possible to increase this corruption even more. This is about the Judicial Service, as I said. It's about the public good council, when it's ruled out by absolutely insane rules on the quorum, that, for example, a member of the Public Council of Virtue is not allowed to publish information publicly about unkind candidates in a court of law, and thus their work as such is completely nullified. So please. which can be talked about by a public council if it can't talk to the public about these issues. Yeah? This is about the powers given to the State Judicial Administration. In fact, the context also sets the number and judges in certain cases that subordinates judges to the State Judicial Administration and again reduces the independence of the judicial system further. So you have to figure out what the law is. I understand that BP will now say that we have appealed to the anti-corruption court there, let's vote, but for this law in this way, with the standards left behind after the first reading, we can't vote because it will do worse, not better.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u219	I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Levchenko, to the fact that you have not named the amendments that you are going to either put to the vote or not put to the vote. Except for 210, me. We'll give you 15 seconds. And please tell me if you insist on voting for your amendments. And numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u220	I insist, because it's just the amendments that apply to the Judicial Service about what I'm talking about. And this is an amendment: 210, 212, and 214. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u221	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u222	With regard to the Judicial Service. I reiterate that, apart from the fact that we have a new institutional norm that has never been in law before, the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine are given protection 24 hours a day and their relatives are given protection, according to their statement. There is also a general problem with the safety of judges in other courts during court proceedings. Many cases where public order is being violated and the judicial system needs a strong protection. What is involved in the Civil Service for Goodness. The committee yesterday took into account the amendments and ruled out the standards of the Public Council for Virtue. I'm here right now in this room, and I'm going to report back to the committee. The committee took into account, took into account, the standards of the Public Council of Virtue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u223	We're talking about Lechchenko's revisions. This is a comment on the amendments made by Levchenk, a respected colleague of Sidorovich. And I'm asking him to do 3 amendments to the vote now. Then your changes, don't worry. 210th, please identify yourself. This is Lechchenka's repair. [[13:24:33]] For-88 The decision is rejected, the decision is not taken. 212 repairs to Lechchenka. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:53]] For-89 The decision is not taken. And 214 Lechchenka. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:12]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Now, here are some amendments from Self-Help that have been rejected. And now the word to the national deputy Sidorovich. 211 amendment, please. We haven't missed any of your revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u224	Yeah, 211 revisions. Look, dear colleagues, you know, we're always treating what needs to be done, but not in that way. There is a question of the protection of judges, it is really pending right now, it really needs to be decided, it really needs to be decided by the Court of Justice. But we're creating a colossal new body, an authority of state with a system of regulation and an assignment that we don't even understand today. We don't understand how to secure this funding. So what I'm proposing is that the things that apply to the prosecution organization should be considered separately. The same with other things that need to be changed in the Courtship Act and in procedural codes, but which have nothing to do with the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And now as of today, leave this legal regulation in its proper form and do not go into it. That's why I'm here to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u225	Thank you. Colleagues, so we're discussing 213 amendments to MPs from. I'm sorry, 211 amendments to the self-help MPs. The committee turned her down. I'm asking you to make up your mind. Mr. Sidorovich gave us a thorough explanation of his correction. Please, 211. [[13:27:06]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the same from "self-help" 213. She was rejected by the committee. Please. You don't insist. Please, Igor Artushenko begs your word. Please, Mr. Artushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u226	Look, because Parliament didn't support the approval of Amendment 176-179 (well, I mean, the track), in fact, we might have a disagreement about the bill because in fact there are several other rights that apply to the question of the harmonization of codes and this approach of what is going to happen to the judge. In my opinion, if we don't apply a few more rights to the same segment, i.e. the questions of harmonization of codes, we're really going to have a balanced segment, a balanced law, I'm sorry. So I'm going to propose confirmation of 181, 182, 183, 186, 188 and 191. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u227	Thank you. 181 Amendment of the People's Deputy of Amazanova. Please, the author's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u228	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. I would like to point out that, for today, several representatives of the Peter Prashenka faction claim that such a type of amendment, which is completely different from what the law is called, is not the Anti-Corruption Court, it's an amendment, if we're talking about 181 amendments to the Code of Procedure. In no way does it apply to an anticorruption court. And they say it balances the law. I'm going to tell you that they're just balancing the law with the laws that you've broken, roughly speaking, at the very beginning, and you haven't read the rest. And now the law is not the law at all. Now you can call this law "the law of everything else," not the anti-corruption court. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment, and all those who follow it, who are stressing that they should be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u229	Thank you. Colleagues, please identify 181 amendments. I'm reminding you that we're putting it on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:44]] For-123 The decision is not taken. The next 182 is an amendment. I'd like to make a statement. We're putting it on confirmation, I'm reminding you. [[13:30:04]] For 113 The decision is not taken. 183 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. We place it for confirmation. [[13:30:25]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Next up, 186th. I'd like to make up my mind. Please, Mrs. Stotnik, give you the word of 186 as the author. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u230	Thank you. This is, indeed, our amendment, which concerns that we have thrown out of this bill amendments to the Civil Procedural Code, which also does not apply in any way to an anti-corruption, higher anti-corruption court. But, guys, I want you to just pay attention to what's going on in the hall. Obviously, a person who does not understand at all what these amendments are about does not, in any way, explain why he is putting them on the stand, and how he thinks that this is balanced by the law, after which he throws out all the key amendments adopted by the committee. And then Peter Dustenka Block is going to tell us that this is a very necessary law, that without it, we're not actually going to be accepted by international society, and we're going to be very bad deputies. And they're putting us on a stretch and they want us to accept, sorry, shit and actually under the slogan that we're saving an anti-corruption court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u231	Please be determined by 186 amendments, it is valid for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:31:54]] For 113 The decision is not taken. 188th. Colleagues, 188. Mrs. Sotnik, this is your amendment. Okay. I'd like to make a statement, 188th. I'm sorry, it was the Anointed Amendment. I'm sorry, please. [[13:32:22]] For-96 I'm sorry, it was the Anointed Amendment. Anyway, it's not supported. 96, and I'm sorry. And 191 amendments. It's an amendment, we put it to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. Please confirm. It's an amendment. My colleagues, there are very few amendments that the committee has left. which has a decision, and then a block of those who don't have a committee decision. [[13:32:49]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. So this amendment is rejected. Next. Come on, colleagues. We have the amendments of the national deputies who have been rejected. Yemen, 218th. You insist, don't you? I can't see. 218th. I'm watching. 215th, Yemen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, in fact, you and I are part of a very serious fraud today. Because it's obvious that in this law that requires the adoption of the Ukrainian people and our international partners, which is actually just a few words left in the name, because we haven't even considered at this point the issue that is crucial and concerns the appeal of the anti-corruption court. Thus, 90 percent of this law is designed to destroy precisely anticorruption processes designed to distort anticorruption processes. Well, think about it, the destruction of the Civil Service for the sake of virtue is based on this law. The Public Council of Virtue is prohibited from informing society of the facts that have become known to them about dishonest candidates. Explain to me how otherwise than as a fraud, can we call this appropriate bill, which we are now considering so well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u233	Please be determined by 215 amendments to the deputy of the Yemeni State. The committee turned her down. [[13:34:44]] For 115 The decision is not made. 216 Amendment, Derevyanko It was not decided by the committee. And this block of amendments that you don't make a decision on, we leave after we go through where the committee's decision is. We're just fixing your amendment for another 216 as one we're going to go back to. Please, same as the Yemeni national deputy, 218 amendments. And then I give you my word, I see your hand. You will, yes? 218th. Please, Mr. Yemen. The committee rejected the amendment. Please, the word of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, well, again, today they're offering us, using what we're asking us to have a real anti-corruption court, in the form of this, you know, bright envelope that's supposed to hide the candy, and actually hides the candy, but what Mrs. Sotnik said is something far more stinking, so we're being offered this law just to destroy, destroy the Civil Council of Virtue. We're supposed to create conditions for them that they can't work under. We are foretold and offered to accept the Law, which will prevent them from providing information that has become known to us. And I'll remind you that not even half the judges have been qualified. We're simply being asked by this law to stop the anti-corruption trials and bring in half the judges, in general, who are in our country, corrupters who have not been tested by the Public Council of Virtue, by which the Public Council of Virtue simply shuts the mouth of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u235	Colleagues, I ask you to determine the 218th Amendment of the Yemeni People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:45]] For-125 The decision is not taken. And please give him a word at the request of the People's Deputy Melniczuk. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, look on the other hand, this is a very interesting position in some of our brothers speaking out in the hall. When we were looking at the bills, including the defense, and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and everyone was going through any amendment, they put every amendment on confirmation, and no one ever said that someone had the right to do it or that it was wrong. Let's be honest when you all went to the Anti-Corruption Court Bill, two days we looked at it and went through every correction. For example, don’t feel like someone is trying to push your clubs into the wheels. There's a position, there's the position of every MP who's been working on these rights. I'm making that offer, you know? Because we've jumped a couple of straights again. And I'm drawing your attention, I'm interested in the 194, 194, 195, 197, 198, 199, and 2000. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u237	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u238	200, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, 199 and 200 revisions, just six rights. And I think we vote them, then we vote the ones that the committee didn't define, and we go out on a beautiful and good law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u239	At the request of the National MP, we now return to these amendments, they were considered by the committee, but the MP is asking for confirmation, 194th. You're asking for a team of authors? Don't ask. Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[13:38:53]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. 195 revisions. Yuzkova, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u240	Yesterday, the committee supported the very right thing when no changes to the administrative and procedural law were made in order for the criminal court to work. I'm surprised the MP Corps can't agree with that. Several times there has been criticism of the fact that normal laws sometimes set rules that do not apply to them, and this leads to the failure to enact the laws mentioned. So I ask you to support the committee's decision when this law does not change laws that have nothing to do with it. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u241	Colleagues, I'm putting 195 amendments on confirmation, please make sure the committee has supported it. [[13:40:15]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The next 197 amendment, this is the authorship of Amazanova. Anointing, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u242	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, we are once again returning to the fact that we are only deepening this crisis over work, over this legislative act, because it is precisely this right that applies to the Code of Administrative Justice, which once again does not apply in any way to the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Dear colleagues, from the Peter Prashenko Block, if you want to have a professional discussion, you can come to the committee, understand why the committee has worked professionally and has actually taken into account the position of the national deputies, who in the vast majority of this committee are lawyers with experience of work. And so if you have a right, as you say, and you want to argue already in the room, I think you need to speak more thoroughly about what is, in your opinion, the flaws in these changes that have been taken into account by the professional committee, and then we will open the discussion. At this point, there are absolutely no such flaws. We have to support this amendment and we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u243	Please, Your Honor, I very much ask you to determine the 197th amendment of the People's Deputies of Amazanova. We've heard two positions, I'm putting it on confirmation. [[13:41:44]] For 132 The decision is not made. The next amendment we're putting on confirmation is 198. I'm talking to the copyright team, will you comment to Mrs. Sotnik? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u244	198 revisions. Now, one second, I'm going to open it. These are changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality. It's all the same. Yesterday it was said that the bill applied exclusively to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The Professional Committee has taken responsibility for its task, has ruled out anything that nullifies activities as courts of other jurisdictions and does not apply to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Today, colleagues from the BPT who are very unwilling to vote in favour of this bill, along with the normal amendment to the appeal case before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, are doing everything they can to reverse all those negative rights so that the factions supporting the appeal against the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court do not vote in favour of this bill. It's a planned sabotage, I'm telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u245	Please identify 198 amendments. [[13:43:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next amendment for confirmation is 199. Please make up your mind. [[13:43:45]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. And the last amendment of what we're putting on confirmation is 200th. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[13:44:10]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we've been through all the amendments that have been made to any committee decision, whether the committee has rejected them or accepted them. And we have ten amendments left. I'm handing it over now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u246	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? During the consideration of the bill, a great deal of amendments, which were essential, were challenged and beaten. Now, as we have agreed with the deputy chairman of the committee, Aleksei Sergey Olegovich, the committee will now meet for a brief meeting to propose a room: (a) which amendments should be made; (b) What adjustments and soundings are important for the implementation of our agreements with the IMF. So now, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm announcing a 10-minute recess for the committee meeting. I'm asking you to involve the employees of the legal department of Apparatus. In 10 minutes, I ask everyone to be in the hall, in 10 minutes, everyone to be in the hall. [[Noise Nodes]] No, not yet. In 10 minutes, everyone please be in the hall. Please determine which right to return to. I've got 15 minutes, we've got half an hour. I've already informed you that I'm continuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-12-m0.u247	It's been 10 minutes. I want to make a decision. During consultations with the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Alexei Sergey Olegovich and with the heads of factions, we have come to understand that more time is needed to reconcile. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alekseus. You have to, right? Yes. They asked, members of the committee and reporters asked, saying that they needed more time to consult. I understand the importance of this law, and knowing how important it is to adopt it today, ask the authors of the working group to come together for reconciliation so that when we get together after lunch, we can know exactly and firmly the recommendations of the committee on what amendments to return to and how important we are from the right to continue our cooperation with the IMF. Two hours is enough for you to have a professional discussion. I ask the Legal Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to contribute as much as possible to the legal drafting of the Committee's rights. And so, colleagues, I hope that at 16 o'clock we can get back to the hall with a decision already made and we can get to the vote. So I'm asking everyone at 4:00 to come to the conference room in time to continue our work. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And at 4:00 p.m. without delay, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall.
