ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration, please. So, colleagues, please prepare for the registration and please conduct the registration, please. [[16:02:20]] 355 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, we've been working hard for lunch, but we have a very ambitious agenda after lunch, and I want to call everyone to mobilization. I want to report that I have already taken a decision on the draft Law amending the Tax Code during the break, and we will be able to consider it. I also want to remind you that we have today's agenda to allocate funds to the Central Election Commission to protect against cybersecurity. We also included in the agenda of the day’s session laws on rail transport and anti - traffic activities. If we work together, we can go through all the issues that we've put into the agenda today and that are in order today. So I ask everyone to prepare for active work. And I would also like to inform you that there is a decision by the committee on the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 4 October 2018 on the adoption of a draft Decision on the approval of proposals for the application of personal sanctions, economic and other restrictive measures (No9157-P). So, colleagues, I can put it up for consideration. I would like to remind you that it does not have a day-to-day session in place and has a special procedure: a reduced procedure. We don't have to vote specifically, we're in the middle of his consideration of the reduced procedure. And so I'm announcing the beginning of the draft regulation 9157-P. And I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Villekul Alexander Yuriovich. No Alexander Yuriovich? Then I invite you to the report, we have informed and warned that there will be a consideration of this decision. I invite the first deputy chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich to report. Maybe in this time of year, Wilcule will come along.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u2	The Honourable Head, honourable Members, the Committee at its meeting on 6 October, reviewed the application of the People's Deputies of Vilkul, Shufrich from October 4th to the Head of the Supreme Council of Paris, requiring not to sign the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Approval of Proposals for the Use of Personal Special Economic and Other Restrictive Measures (Sanctions) (Registration No. 9157) and the draft Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 9157-P) on the annulment of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council Rules. It was concluded that one of the arguments for revoking the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of an entire draft decision, according to the project authors, was, inter alia, the unpersonal vote of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The Committee has repeatedly stressed that the issue of the establishment of a non-personal vote by the Ukrainian people's deputies should be violated and exhausted directly during the consideration of the drafts in the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings in an order envisaged in part three of article 47 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, not after the completion of the consideration of the matter and, more so, after the end of the relevant plenary session. However, the procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council, as defined in article 48 of the Rules, provides for, inter alia, the referral of the Ukrainian National MP to the chairman of the plenary with an application for violation of the Rules when reviewing and voting the bill, the submission of a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council with the simultaneous introduction of a corresponding draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the provisions of part five of article 48 of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Deputies of Wilkul, Shufrich, after the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the draft Decrees of Registration No. 9157, made a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and submitted to the Supreme Council a corresponding draft Decree No. 9157-P. The committee proposes to determine whether the draft decision should be adopted or rejected by a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u3	Thank you. The report invites the coauthor of the decision, Nestor Schufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u4	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Dear colleagues! The draft decision that is proposed to be repealed, and I will ask for a slightly different procedure, of course, is one that disgraces the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Many deputies said that they were turning to the National Security Council to study the material. But in fact, but actually this ruling has already established facts, and the Supreme Council has acted as investigator and judge in this matter. Next, next. Dear colleagues! We talked about that there is no more buttonage in our country, but, unfortunately for me, this Supreme Council. was accepted on the basis of the acceptance of votes that were not for themselves but for another MP. We've shown a video of three national MPs voting for a colleague. And Mikhail Powlowski was gone. In fact, Igor Kaletnik has been called to account for the organization of such a vote, and he has already been searched for. Dear colleagues! I have a simple male proposition. That out of 229 votes there was a maximum of 225, no one doubts that. But what I want to say is, if we're men, and you really think that's the way it is, it's weak to put a vote down, not to overturn the ruling, but to vote, as required by article 46th and article 48th of the Constitution. Mr. Head, I've given you both a statement, and I've shown you a video, and you've had the opportunity to correct this situation at the time of the vote. In fact, we broke the law without setting it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u5	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u6	In fact, Mr. Head, you have not put this question to the vote, as required by article 46, part three, fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u7	So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. I remind you, this ruling is now blocking the signing of the sanctions order, and its non-admission will allow me to sign it immediately, so that you can just focus on the content of the hearing. Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u8	All the Ukrainian haters who fought the war, who called on the enemy, who did everything they could to annex the Crimea, to all those who started the war on Donbassa, don't talk about it. You continue on the canals to walk and burn the Ukrainian state. On these channels, you continue to corrupt the Ukrainian army. Maybe that's enough! Nestor, come on. The Moscow masters have already seen you lick their ass very well. Stop! Well, that's enough. Well, you've had enough, haven't you? As for this, you know, dancing on the bone through the pro-Russian channels, feel sorry for those mothers, regret those widows who lost their closest loved ones in this war. You continue, you continue to burn your memory. The Kremlin agents, well, listen, for them, what they're going to say in Moscow is essential to them. If you want to be Ukrainian channels, not Russian propaganda channels, but Ukrainian channels, be! You had a thousand chances. But no matter what, you chose the path of propaganda of Russian Orthodox Fascism, unfortunately. And so I'm going to say just one moment: these channels have to be closed, and the discussion is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u9	Thank you. From the Opposition Block. Papiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Last name was not given. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Every Ukrainian national deputy, making an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy – and you remember it – begins with the fact that "I undertake to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine". The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were adopted by law. So I would very much ask all the Ukrainian national MPs, regardless of the content of the law itself, to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the presiding officers to abide by the Rules -- this is the celebration of the saints of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is the celebration of the holy work of the Ukrainian National Deputies. With regard to some rules of the Rules, I think they will be interesting to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why? Right now, we're looking at a resolution on the difference of voting. But I would like to remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the Rules are such a thick enough book, and there is still a 138 article that clearly and clearly states that the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have become effective since the adoption. That is, only the procedure for enacting laws provides for the operation of 48 articles of the Rules to be provided. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have the right to sign the law before two days after the vote of this law, for this time is reserved for the national deputies who have recorded the violation to rule on the difference of voting. And this is, well, a festival of saints. But the decision we're talking about, we've taken a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I've got a question for the Head: what is this about? The decision has already taken effect, dear friends. Because it was voted, it wasn't the law. Once again, Mr. Head, please read the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, when Law 9208 was passed, the Rules were violated because he had no right to vote in general. I'm personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u11	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u12	I was making a personal application. Now they don't want to register my ruling, which is the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy and the envisaged article is criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u13	Thank you. I had a call, and I'll give you the answer. Colleagues, you know, I would. [[Noise Nodes]] I'll give you my word, and now listen to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind myself that I would have moved to a different dimension if it wasn't here, in that room five years ago, I just can't be surprised to see when the members of the Party of Regions are telling us in detail about the Rules. You're the one who crippled people right here in this room right here. The guards you brought into the hall, remember Nestor? You have mutilated the deputies with chains, and here you have killed them at the site of the Holy Presidium. [[Noise Nodes]] It was you who voted with your hands on January 16th! In what article of the Rules, can you tell me the paragraph and article of the Rules under which you voted by hand the law that led to the death of our boys when they died in Maidan because of your political will when you voted with your hands? Did you then show the Rules? Did you then carry the Rules to the members of the Party of the Regions? Did you do the same with fire? No, you've also approved of all of this because of your initiatives or your silent consent, you've led the country into a great tragedy, and it's on your hands. And I'll tell you, Mr. Yuri, don't call them Orthodox. Because today they were, like no one, mad at us when we made decisions, made decisions about the state of the Universal Patriarch first among the equal of all the churches, they were freaking out like an unclean force. It's not about them, my friends! Our story about Ukraine, providing information protection for our country, providing humanitarian security, providing cybersecurity. And no one will stop us anymore, because we have a huge responsibility not only to those on the front today but to those who have left, and for whom we too are responsible today. Now, one minute, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u14	Thank you. Well, I have to say that today's Supreme Council is exactly the same as the previous Council, or the predecessors. As far as I'm concerned. But that's not the worst of it. Regarding my position on freedom of speech, I defended both TV and 5 channels when there were attempts to pressure him. As for my position on the situation on Donbass, it is widely known that from the first days I tried to make this opposition stop. But today I am talking about one thing: the adopted Law on the Rules, which requires that the presiding officer be given the opportunity to vote if the buttonage is detected. And this was fixed and demonstrated. And by the way, we were denied a video today to see you vote again. I ask you to re-vote this order. As for Bartholomew, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Now, from the National Deputies, two minutes, Sergey High, and we move on to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very interesting to hear how evil when we conquer it refers to the law. I remember January 16, 2014 and what was happening in this room. I remember how in 2014, Russia outside the law, with your help, captured Donbas and Crimea. I remember when people were killed in the streets, and no one paid attention to the law. But when we're in this room in spite of all our conflicts, even though we're all very different, even though we're getting closer to the elections and we want each of us to win the competition there, and so it turns out that we're all competitors here, we're united in order to give back to the aggressor. When we do this, when we show that the Supreme Council, as the highest authority of the state, is able to take the necessary, sometimes hard, but very necessary, decisions during the war, they refer to the law. There is no excuse for destroying our own country. There is no excuse for destroying your own country, including through the media. And we know very well that no matter what Ukrainian, very Ukrainian independent media criticises power, has criticized the President or our Supreme Council, or we will never be personally pressured by anyone. No matter how many investigations go on Freedom radio or on Social TV, no one has ever pushed or pushed for independent journalism, but a place for journalists, so-called journalists, who, under the cover of freedom of speech, destroys our state under Moscow's adhesion -- no, such a place in Ukraine should not be for these people. So I urge you to vote against this decision and allow the President to adopt a hard but responsible decision to suppress pro-Russian propaganda in our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u17	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I want to remind you, colleagues, that everything happens exclusively to a coma under the Rules. We voted in favour of the ruling, a decree on non-admissibility was registered, and it was considered by the regulatory committee. And that makes it possible for the hall to decide today, and only the hall will make decisions on how to deal with this decision. I would like to remind you that this decree is intended to abolish our voting under the sanctions regime. Whoever wants to cancel it votes in favour, who wants the ruling signed, votes "against." So I'm voting on the draft Resolution on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 4 October 2018 on the adoption of the whole draft Decision on the approval of proposals for the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions) (No. 9157-P). I'd like to make a statement. [[16:21:21]] For-57 The decree is rejected. And I will immediately sign our ruling that was adopted last week. Colleagues, before we go to the Tax Code, I want to inform you that there's been a statement in the Presidency from two factions, the Opposition Block and the Rebirth, they're ready to take a break for the speech. And, Wilcule, right? Please. And, colleagues, in three minutes, we're moving on to the amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take part in the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u18	Today, the people of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, have been granted bribes by the hands of the Ukrainian Parliament to the Istanbul Patriarch for his participation in the Ukrainian presidential campaign, passed on to the Ukrainian historical monument, the Andrian Church. ( [[B in m in s a l in]] According to the law, I, Vadim Novinski, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u19	Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u20	Mikhail Dobkin and Michael Papiev registered the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u21	I'm asking you to stop. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u22	It's Parliament's decision because of the buttonage. It's a decision. We showed this buttoning right in the Supreme Council Hall to Speaker Andrew Parovia. But for the first time in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, there was a dirty violation of the law. Our already registered 9208-P decision to reverse the decision of the Council of Officials of the Supreme Council refused to be posted on the official site, although it had already been registered with it. And Parliament Speaker Andri Parubay signed a decree to hand over the Andrivian Church even though it was stopped by our registered decree. We will officially transfer them to law enforcement agencies and ensure that officials who have broken the law are punished. Ukrainian Parliamentarianism cannot be so destroyed. We also introduced another bill. If the authorities are eager to repay the Istanbul Patriarch, we have registered a draft law for the purpose of comfortable living in Ukraine. I, Vadim Novinski, Nestor Shufric, Mikhail Dobkin, was offered to hand over to him the President’s Office on Banking Street until March 31, 2019. Please consider our ruling and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u23	I'm a colleague! This is a humiliation to the feelings of our believers. When I said they were mad. Go to church and confess! How dare you speak here, from the high Ukrainian rostrum, a word of contempt for the Space Patriarch?Oh, my God! It's just bullshit and it shows that it's a kegebist sect! I'll remind you -- I've never talked about it from the rostrum, because I didn't think there was any need to touch religious issues, because Gundyaev's priests used their hands to kill captured Ukrainian soldiers! The first diversified groups were hiding in your Gundya's hideouts, killing Ukrainian citizens like a diversified Strelkova group! They killed people -- Ukrainians, and then with their hands full of blood, they went to these shelters of Gundyev! It's not a church! It is Ukraine that is returning to its church today! It is Ukraine that honors the Patriarch of the universe today! Do not dare to speak of one of the most holy of the Orthodox people from the rostrum! And do not insult the feelings of Orthodox believers! And go to the church and repent. And stop, don't ever do that from the Supreme Council stand again. Go to Aphonus, repent and get the hell out of you so that he doesn't let you down. Come on, fellows, we're not going to let that happen in the hall anymore, it's impossible for such speeches to sound from our rostrum. So, colleagues. So, colleagues, right now I'm asking everyone to get ready for work. Let's get to work, fellows. We're running out of time. Let's not let anyone balance the work of the hall. And I'm announcing a move to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain taxes (No. 9085). And I would like to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for a cut, colleagues. Please support everyone. [[16:26:24]] For 116 Colleagues, I don't quite understand the logic. I ask the heads of factions to do explanatory work on factions. We have today's cybersecurity CBC, we have an important bill on the railway today, we have an important exchange bill today. We won't be able to see them again. I ask you to support the review of the Tax Code, the amendments to the Tax Code by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:27:11]] For 134 Guys, I'll put it back on. I'll do it again. We'll go in full and there'll be no exchange today. There won't be any funds for cybersecurity if we go full. It'll take an hour, colleagues, an hour or an hour or ten. This needs to have a causal link: the non-admission of the reduced procedure makes it impossible for us to adopt the following important laws. So, colleagues, I'm going to vote for the third time. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, including the authors of the following bills. And I ask you to support the proposal that we consider the draft Law on Amendments to the 9085 Tax Code by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[16:28:13]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Asking for support on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Tax Code on certain rates of certain taxes. The project has been developed by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with paragraph 4 of the Tax Code, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers submits to the Supreme Council annually a project to amend the tax rates. The aim is to ensure that rates are consistent with inflation processes and that additional revenues are received from Ukraine’s budget. In particular, this bill proposes to review excise taxes, environmental taxes, and rents for 2019. After discussions with the tax committee, we support the formulations proposed by the tax committee to adopt today's bill, which is related, including the 19th-year budget process, as a basis. And in the process of preparing both the 19th Year Budget Act and the accompanying all of our legislative acts, also to finalize this bill of amendments to the Tax Code and to go to a balanced decision together in a package when we return to you with our State Budget Act to a second reading vote. So the request to support this project on the basis and allow us, together with the tax committee, to work on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u25	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Nina Petrovna, is invited to the report. Please, Nina Petrovna. And, colleagues, I see there's not enough national MPs in the room to make these responsible decisions. So I'm addressing the factions' heads to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, Bill 9085 was considered at the committee meeting. During his consideration, colleagues noted that, as in previous years, unfortunately, no financial and economic justification had been given to the project submitted by the government, except for the fact that it had been found in the explanatory note to the bill that its adoption would allow for an increase in budget revenue. There's no explanation for any other material or calculation. The absence of such justifications and calculations can make the consideration of these bills more difficult. Because last year we talked about that the Tax Code changed the direct rule of the law on the obligation to index excise taxes for years to come. This only happens if necessary. The need must be justified. We have therefore noted that, especially in the part of the rate index, in fact, it is noted in the conclusion of the GNEU, that the question of indexation of quoted inflation rates is debated in view of Parliament's earlier decision to step up excise duties on tobacco products by 2025 with a view to achieving the minimum level of excise tax in force in the EU, 90 euros per 1000 grand. Taking into account the relevance of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain taxes (No. 9085). At the same time, the committee noted that the decision had been taken if the draft text had been amended to read the second reading in the exclusion section of the rules on the indexation of excise duties on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u27	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u28	and rents for the use of Ukraine's radio frequency resource and balancing budget revenues for taxes and customs payments resulting from the improvement of the electronic administration system for such taxes and customs payments, as well as the introduction of excise taxes on new types of tobacco products. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. Please, Oksana Jurinec will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u30	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv You know, it's very important that this law shows that we can pay these taxes in good faith. But on the other hand, we need to understand exactly what is important is the interest of our national producer, who has the opportunity to develop. We need to understand that we are harmonising our tax legislation under the requirements that today are the European Union, but clearly defending the national interest of our state. It's very important that we have large transnational companies. But it's very important that they don't play the monopoly market, which just shuts down the individual payers' number one tax fields, for example our area or other areas. So it's very important that this thing isn't the kind of thing that makes it impossible for these businesses that pay these taxes today to pay them at all. But we have to understand other things with respect. By balancing the sector, putting them all together at the table, saying, guys, you have to pay taxes, you have to pay them honestly and responsibly, and you have to understand that we are a European country, not a market for your products. So it's very important that this is included in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u31	Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, we are now looking at the changes to the Tax Code under the budget that was adopted in the first reading today. The point is that you and I in the Tax Code have given the government the mandate to index absolute taxes only when there is a need to do so. And when I asked representatives of the Ministry of Finance at a tax committee meeting yesterday, which called for the need this year to increase excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and other payments, particularly rents for radio frequency congregations. So the answer was very strange: it's a simple coverage of the budget deficit. What does that mean? That the government is increasing the tax burden on the industry, which today is the largest taxpayers according to the State Fiscal Service ratings. You can see this: mobile operators, tobacco companies, alcoholic producers today are top-100 taxpayers of the largest Ukraine. This means that they will pay more for tobacco, alcohol, beer, and mobile phone bills if they pay them in the form of taxes. Instead, there is today a huge amount of resources that are not included by the government in the revenue of the State budget. First of all, we're talking about customs, and that's not what I'm saying, that's what the Prime Minister said, that's what the Minister of the Interior said, because of the suspension of customs schemes by the end of the year, they're going to charge the State budget 100 billion dollars. The question is: Where is this money? If they are to be concluded by the end of the year, they should be redistributed accordingly in the 2019 State Budget. That's why we don't support this bill, it just increases the tax burden on the economy, and we're asking the government to take into account the hidden resource of fiscal losses that's on customs and during customs today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u33	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u34	And we're asking the government to account for the huge fiscal loss that today is hiding on customs, and it's hiding in the absence of an electronic tax administration system introduced by the State Fiscal Service, and it's improving tax administration. There's a huge resource here, and I think that these 6 billion that the government wants to extract from the pockets of Ukrainians can be found on customs and in excise goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u35	Thank you. And please give a speech by the national MP Ivchenko of Fatherland. Who's going to be the fatherland? Nobody. So they're left. No, the BP was delivered by Jurinec, the Rebirth Group by Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u36	Thank you. I want to say that such matters still need to be discussed in full procedure. I understand that we have important bills then, but now we're discussing what's going to happen in the country next year from a tax point of view. And of course we'd like to hear from the government the question of how do they put the country's development through tax regulation itself, because there's actually a question? If we think the country will live at the expense of excise duties, next year, at the expense of their increase, it's probably not a very good development plan. If there are any other plans, we need to hear them and see how they work out in the matter outlined in the budget. Because we actually have a budget process, unfortunately, the question is that we have a large debt pit, we have to give up the money, so don't ask us what to do, we know everything, we'll only work on our creditors. This should not be the case, however, so that we can understand what strategy in the Cabinet of Ministers on tax work. If we hear that there are plans for a tax on the capital output, tell us how this strategy next year happens, what's going on around it. If there are no plans in the budget for how to survive next year, this is usually not a development strategy for the following year. What's more, we could talk about what's going on with tax and customs on business development. Because the attacks on business have become a regular topic, and if you talk to a representative of any business today -- small, medium or large -- they are attacked every day. Together, the customs and tax systems terrorize them. So let's work on the strategy and let Kabdin report to us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're almost done talking. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. It's from the Non-Faction Fish, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u38	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear Mrs. Oksano, in fact, there is really no draconian tax raise in this bill, and this is really bringing tax rates into line with inflationary processes. At the same time, I would like to point out that our Committee on Environmental Policy has repeatedly raised the issue, and the government has promised in the past year that we will return to the formation of a state-wide environmental fund, into which the environmental tax will come. Because to date, the cost of Ukrainian health, Ukrainian citizens, is simply a general fund of the state budget, and such money is not allocated at all to the implementation of conservation measures. This year it's just 165 million dollars. The consequences of water damage in the Carpathian region are 72 million dollars. This is very small, and this will not solve the absolute problems, even if the state collects about 4 billion a year. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u39	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u40	Please note this, because these are very important issues that our committee has repeatedly addressed, and environmentalists in Ukraine in general, environmental organizations are paying attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u41	Thank you. I gave a word to Rybak from the National Deputies. Since there's been a performance from the BBC, I'm in the section just from the National MPs, just so there's no questions. I said "post-faction," and that's from the people's deputies. Please turn on the microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u42	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Well, I can see in this session room, in this terrarium, as always, when the budgetary process begins, it starts with a completely spitting-out attitude towards the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, at first the draft State budget was illegally adopted in the first reading, not violated, in direct violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they did not allow the people's deputies to insist on their amendments, nor did they hear their amendments. In particular, I personally approached the Head and demanded that the law be enforced. This was not done. And now we've come to an interesting point -- the kind of thing that they're looking at -- the 9085 bill that deals with the change in the tax system in the country, the colossal changes, right? – consider it at all without being included in the agenda. He's not in the day-to-day at all. No, no, no! And I, for example, had no opportunity at all to properly prepare for it, because today it wasn't supposed to be in order of day. Well, that doesn't go anywhere. Well, at least remember that there is such a thing as a conscience as a law, and at least go back a little.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u43	So, colleagues, we're done here. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, and then we'll count every vote, colleagues. So I go to the heads of factions: we go to making decisions. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain taxes (No. 9085). On the committee's proposals, take the basis of the committee's proposals, taking into account the decisions made by the committee in its decision. So, please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:44:38]] For-170. I'll be back. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 59, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, "Radical Party" – 12, "Fathership" – 0, "Will of the People" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 7, non-fractional – 13. So, colleagues, I'll put you back. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So I propose to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain taxes (No. 9085). Please vote, please support. To return. [[16:45:50.]] For-188. My colleagues, I'll put it again, but there's too much difference. The big difference is almost 40 votes. I'll do it again. Let's talk about how we should be, how we should act, then I'll put it again. Colleagues, Nina Petrovna, come on, colleagues, we've already come to the vote, 30 seconds to invite MPs. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put it back. I refer to the government, and to the committee head, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected, it will be rejected. So, for the second time, I am proposing to return to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Certain Taxes (No. 9085). Please vote, please support the return. Please vote. [[16:47:44]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 84, National Front – 64, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 0, Radical Party – 13, Fatherland – 2, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 12, non-fractional – 16. Now I'm going to put the closing down once, finale. Please take your seats in the hall. Please prepare for. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's a final one. Once in a while, I'm proposing to return to draft Law 9085. Please vote and please support. To return. [[16:48:59]] For 193 Less votes, colleagues. Draft Law 9085. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'd like everyone's attention. I've put it back three times -- 193, please count. That's 7 plus 26 to 33 votes is not enough to make a decision. They're just not in the hall, these 33 voices. Law 9085 was rejected. Let's move on to the next draft of the law. This is a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018. Colleagues, this is what CBC is all about. I very much ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote. First, I would like to make a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. It's a simple, simple law. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:50:08]] For 148 Two votes. But, colleagues, this is the country's cybersecurity. This is a law that has only a few positions. Why is that? So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote once again the proposal that the draft Law 8496 should be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:40]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report by Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will, in the absence of time, try to keep you informed of the essence of the bill. The committee I lead has been approached by the Central Election Commission, which took place in June of this year, and this was the previous composition of the Central Electoral Commission, with proposals in the form of a specific draft law in order for the committee to be able to bring it into the session hall. The purpose of this bill is to take this series of measures to ensure cybersecurity of the information systems of the Central Electoral Commission and the National Electoral Register. It's a very simple thing, I want all the national MPs to understand the essence of this bill. He does not foresee the need for additional funds from the State Budget. It foresees the possibility that the funds allocated to the Central Electoral Commission for the elections in the cities of regional importance may be transferred to the appropriate purpose of the cybersecurity of the Central Electoral Commission systems. Why is that possible? Since you and I have adopted a law that stipulates that when elections are held by a united territorial community, the communities that join the city of regional importance are not held in elections. This allows you to save 75 million dollars in the budget of the Central Electoral Commission. For these same purposes, there are 49 million 660,000 dollars, two-thirds of which are cybersecurity measures, and one-third is the cost of creating a special cybersecurity unit of the Central Electoral Commission and the corresponding salaries of employees in these units. On behalf of the committee, I would like to support this bill, as the new Central Election Commission, at its first session, has asked Parliament to consider it at this sessional week and to accept it without delay, including in general, so that they can start the measures provided for in the law next week and reach the beginning of the electoral process. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. The prince stressed the importance of this bill, so, colleagues, I very much ask everyone to come to the hall. We're going to have a full discussion, of course, but we can't put this bill at risk. Please invite the head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs, Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u46	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs, at its meeting on 4 July, reviewed the bill at number 8496, which is proposed within the total expenditure of the general budget fund of the State budget provided for by the Central Electoral Commission in the current year to redistribute the public budget expenditure of almost 50 million dollars under the budget programmes of the Commission. Thus, Bill 8496 does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources and does not affect the overall expenditure of the state budget. Budget figures are balanced. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council noted that the decision on the bill requires an appropriate expert opinion from the government. The Ministry of Finance did not comment on the bill. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill on number 8496 to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law taking into account the committee's proposals made in a letter to the bill and related to the drafting of the bill, in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should the bill be adopted in the drafting of the relevant law, should be provided with the necessary editorial and technical legal details relating to the committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u47	Please record: two in, two in. Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u48	Thank you. I want to say that our faction will support the bill, including the proposal to consider it not only as a basis but also as a whole. We're already quite late with this bill because, frankly, the whole range of measures that are needed to implement this bill, it, you know, after the adoption of the ProZorro system, the special tendering procedure, is somewhat complicated at the time, and the Central Election Commission actually doesn't have time for all the information systems that are in its subordination, and this is the information system of the Elections IAS and the State Election Register to be adequately protected and able to repel the huge number of DoS attacks that occur during the electoral process. I remind you that we have had cases where on the day of the election on the Central Electoral Commission server there were up to a million cybercrime attacks that tried to intervene in the electoral process and in the voting process. I am confident that Parliament will take this decision. And here we're going to go beyond politics, and we're only going to take care of cybersecurity and the security of the state at all. You can imagine what any intervention in the Central Electoral Commission can cost during the election of the President and the Ukrainian National Deputies. And so I would like to ask you very much to support this decision. It does not need any additional funds. All of these costs are already in line with the budget of the Central Electoral Commission, only for another purpose – to hold elections in cities of regional importance. In view of the fact that these elections are not currently being held, there is an opportunity to move these funds, which will allow the Central Electoral Commission to quickly and quickly implement a series of measures, I hope to do so effectively. And this will be real, real security measures for the country from externally interfering with the electoral processes of Ukraine through cyberspace. These elections are too important for our nation to ransom international cyber criminals, no matter where they engage in cyberattacks. Please support, and I hope that this can unite the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u49	Thank you. I want to support Ruslan Knyazevich. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, see who's not here. This is one of the issues that we cannot fail today. We enter the election year when both the President and the Supreme Council will be elected. And there is no doubt that the Russian aggressor will make every effort to influence our choices. And it's up to us how effective cybersecurity is going to be. So I'm asking everyone to mobilize, see who's not here, and invite them into the hall. Please, from Self-Help, Alexander Danchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u50	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! A simple question, a simple question, because once the CVA is updated from the point of view of protection, cybersecurity and information resources in general, they don't have anything at all. And it's not really up to us, but why hasn't it been done before, but it's a big question. This question is overwhelming. I ask you very much to support this decision. I am very much asking to vote because the issue of cybersecurity is the last chance for Putin to intervene in our elections. And next year it's too big for him. I have a remark, of course, that it is impossible to vote in general, but only in the first reading and in the summary procedure, because there is a question, there is a question. But I am very much asking you to support this bill. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to call everyone in, because the issue of cybersecurity for the CBC is the question of each of us who are here in this room. We know how Putin's troops are attacking Britain, the United States, and of course they're going to be targeted at the election of the future president of Ukraine. I very much ask everyone to pay attention, go into the hall and vote for this decision. If it does not go as a whole, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I ask you very much in the first reading, but in the accelerated procedure for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u51	Thank you. From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? My family, if it's the first reading today and then the second reading, and the new CEVC team won't just start the bidding by the end of the year, and they'll burn in white flames. And, Your Honor, where do you get the money from? And you're taking them out of the government budget for the elections of rural, rural and urban heads and their communities. We have announced 125 December 23th elections for the community. We're going to take the money now, they're going to burn it down, and there's not going to be any local elections. None of this is going to go to cyber because they're not going to run these elections, according to the term. Please put this money into the local elections, create the conditions for a new year, anticipate the budget costs, and from the new year, write a budget program, this month, endorsing it, then tendering it. It's four or five months that will just start after the president's team to do cyberprotection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u53	So, colleagues, now I'm going to let the head of the committee speak. Colleagues, over. It's Pisarenko, isn't it? There'll be a vote in two or three minutes, colleagues. I'm very persistently asking again, look who's gone and invite you to the hall. Now, Knyazevich, please, a minute, then Pisarenko. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u54	I'd like to go to Alexandra Volodymyrna, she can't really hear me. Alexander Volodymyr, this is Knyazevitch. I'm sitting here. The point is, I explained from the rostrum, it's a special kind of local election -- the election of the united territorial communities that unite around the city of district importance. By law, Parliament says that if a number of communities join the city of regional importance, they do not hold local elections. But last year 75 million were spent on these targets. So it's dead money that's just to be saved by the end of the year at the expense of the Central Electoral Commission. Just this money is offered, since there will be no more elections, there will be no more such ones as phenomena, and it will be transferred to cybersecurity. With regard to the elections in the unified local communities of the first additional ones just appointed on December 23, respectively, this is a separate funding line in the Central Electoral Commission, and this money is sufficient to properly hold the appropriate elections in the unified territorial communities by the end of the year. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u55	Knyazevich explained the situation in a very reasoned manner. So, colleagues, now Pisarenko, one minute. In a minute, we'll move on to the vote. Everyone, please enter the hall. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Head. We fully support the strengthening of the security systems for the Central Electoral Commission. In doing so, we want to point out that we need to create enough hard parliamentary control over these things, because, apart from the fact that it's the security of the state, the security of the elections that are going to go on, it's still a lot of money that, if you look at where they're going, it's technical security, it's software and so on, that's where, unfortunately, most of the spheres of corruption is flourishing, because large costs are purchased by programs that. It's impossible to appreciate them. So, given that we are constantly asking for millions of dollars for medicines for children, for education, for health care, and not for us, they say, “There is no money. ” So we have to make sure that millions of dollars don't go to programs that cost maybe thousands of dollars. Therefore, in addition to helping the CLTC, there is still a need for sufficient control over what happens after we have made our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u57	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, it's a matter of security. The security issue should not leave anyone in the room. Please come into the hall. It's a matter of cybersecurity. And he explained that these are the costs in the article where we were to allocate funds for the elections when they were being merged around large cities. We made our decision by law. For him, he was adamant, including Vlasenko, that we did not make elections when union was taking place. So it's free money. That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to support everyone. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs, colleagues. Lord, come into the hall. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm betting. Don't leave the hall, Sergei. Come into the hall, the other way around. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 (No. 8496). I'm putting the committee's first proposal on the ground. Based on the base. Please. No, the committee's first offer. If it doesn't work, then it's on the ground. First committee on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Please vote. We support the cybersecurity of our nation. We won't let the aggressor interfere with the election, colleagues. [[17:05:39]] For 199 So now I'm laying the groundwork. Now I'm laying the groundwork. So, colleagues, please come in. It is irresponsible not to be in the hall during such a vote. Please invite everyone into the hall. Now I'm putting it on the ground, the first one was the committee's proposal. Please show the factions, please. 89 - Peter Poshenko Block, People's Front - 62, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 8, Radical Party - 12, Fatherland - 2, Will of the People - 4, Rebirth Party - 5. So, colleagues, I'm now laying the foundation for Law 8496. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Support the foundation. Support me, colleagues, this will be right and fair. Vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. For cybersecurity. Vote. [[17:06:45.]] For 219 We didn't make it, a few votes. Colleagues, during the vote, please be in the workplace. Please, everyone, come into the hall. I'll put it back on the ground. On the way back and on the ground. Colleagues, when it comes to basics, we're going to be able to apply for second reading, and that's going to be fair and right. Please. So, colleagues, the first vote goes back, and then I'm going to lay the groundwork. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for Law 8496. Please support the return. We will maintain the cybersecurity of our country. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. [[17:07:53]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 8496 on the ground. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Vote. We support the cybersecurity of our country. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:08:19]] For 237 And now, colleagues, there is a request: a reduced procedure for second reading. Attention, colleagues, attention! Two weeks doesn't make any sense, colleagues, attention, attention. I'm asking everyone to calm down right now, colleagues, please listen to me. We don't have to vote for the cut, because we have two weeks off, but there's a point, it would be in general, but we're not going to pick up without "self-help." Ruslan, we're not gonna get those votes. The Prince has a logic, otherwise we stop the process. I'll make the offer to Knyazevitch. Who is in favour of supporting draft Law 8496 as a whole, please vote. Whoever supports this proposal, I ask you to vote on who supports it, and I ask you to vote on it. In general, we vote. In short, it doesn't make sense, colleagues, in short, it doesn't make sense. [[17:09:37]] For 214 It'll be on the ground, and we'll consider it in two weeks. Now we're going to move on to the next law. There's a statement from two factions -- "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" -- they're willing to switch to the performance, from two factions ready to be replaced, and Jonah's is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, may I have a word with you? Thank you very much. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, have recently made the situation of speaking a lot worse, and therefore the interfractional merger of "Equal Opportunities" would strongly condemn the conduct of the national deputy Vladimir Misik, who allowed himself to make completely unethical and discriminatory remarks at the address of National Deputy Victoria Ptašnik yesterday during the Legislative Security Committee. Regrettably, some representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament failed to adopt the basic rules of ethically accepted conduct and remained at the level of primary development when concepts such as respect, dignity and reputation were little known. And I would also like to say that we would like to go to the Committee on Rules and Organizational Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this case -- what happened during the committee meeting. We regret that there was no person at the committee meeting who would have noticed the inadmissibility of becoming a person and would have warned against discriminating at the meeting. I would like to remind you that part of the members of the Committee on Law Protection are generals, but they have forgotten that honor and dignity are recognized as the highest social values. In recent times, cases of sexist and discriminatory claims have increased, perhaps caused by a change in the weather, and most likely by a lack of responsibility and punishment for such shameful acts. Unfortunately, at the previous plenary session, Kaplin Sergey allowed himself to speak shamefully to the assistants of the national MPs. Mr. Oleg Lazko, Barna, in public speeches, used expressions that hurt the business reputation of women government officials, women MPs. And we would like to ask, colleagues: Have respect! Because we call you to common sense and especially before the election campaigns begin. Please follow the principles of nondiscrimination and respect for honor and dignity. 25 women in the army, thousands! Thousands of volunteers and tens of thousands of local deputies, please do not allow disrespectful comments. We thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u59	Thank you. And we fully support you. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings, whose assets are located in the area of secession and the deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and in the area of ATO. Number 9069. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please support the reduced procedure. [[17:13:52]] For-138 Colleagues. Mr. Jaroslav, the most people around you are holding on, right around you, you can convince them, not me, it's a shortened procedure. The law, which is critical to both the railway and critical to Ukraine, I ask to vote in favour of its short-term consideration. Please support the discussion. [[17:14:28]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! We are now considering with you a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings, whose assets are located in the area of secession and the deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and in the area of anti-terrorist operation (registration number 9069). Dear colleagues, I understand that it's been a difficult day for us to accept the budget today, so I'll tell you about the bill briefly and clearly. You and I have adopted a similar bill, which was released by Pat "The Cruise" from the credit liabilities associated with the Donetsk Railway, which are now in the temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. We voted on it, and then it was still a zone for an anti-terror operation. You and I have passed a law recognizing Russia as an aggressor, and there you know that the United Forces specialization is now under way. That's why we need to technically correct the ATO -- "anti-terrorist operation" for the United Forces. The bill is short, technical. I would like to support you as a whole. Dear colleagues, we saw a lot of speeches on Tuesday by our colleagues from the agar committee and other committees that talked about the impossibility of raising tariffs on railways. I agree with you. But it's up to us to help the Railroads not pay for credits for the Donetsk Railway, which is now in the temporarily occupied territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. Let's help the Railroads, instead we'll demand that they don't raise the tariffs. So I ask you to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u61	Thank you. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is invited to the report. And, colleagues, take care of yourself. It's a technical but very important bill that needs to be supported by all the halls. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u62	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to amend Ukraine's laws 4442 and 1404 on the moratorium on recourse to PAT's assets. This is primarily about the debt of the Donetsk Railway, whose assets remain in an uncontrollable territory and the succession of which the Crucifixion has never acquired. Accordingly, the Railroad should not be liable for outstanding debts of the Donetsk Railway, including through the purchase of goods and moving warehouses left in the DNR. This situation was regulated by Law 1787. With regard to the termination of the ATO and the adoption of the Ukrainian Law, 2268 "On the peculiarities of the State policy of ensuring the State sovereignty of Ukraine in the temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas", it is necessary to make appropriate changes to legislation, to foresee that moratoriums relate to obligations of enterprises whose assets are located in areas where measures are taken to ensure national security and defence, cutting-off and deterrence of armed aggression by the Russian Federation. As a result of the draft bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law 9069 of 07.09.2018 to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the technical and legal law of the committee: to exclude the text of the bill the words “which carry out the operation of the United Forces (UNO)”. The technical law of the committee aims to reconcile the provisions of the project with the terminology of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy, which provides for the State Sovereignty of Ukraine in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 9069 as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's technical law. Thank you for your attention. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to put a vote on the rating vote so that this bill is not overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u63	And if I put it in, what will it be? We've come into the discussion, we have to finish the discussion. Colleagues, when we get into the debate, we have to finish the discussion. I am sure that we will be able to unite around this law. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u64	We are definitely ready to vote in favour of this bill, but with the opportunity and presence of the Minister of Infrastructure here, I want to ask him. We've been with you for a year, more specifically, me and the unions against you, fighting to make the employees of the Crucibles pay higher. It's about machinemen and all the other workers. You know that it was only during this month that three drivers were killed. They work in excruciating conditions, they live to a maximum of 55 years, they don't retire, they get low wages. I'm here in public on behalf of the 600th Army of Workers -- ordinary people who work at the Cruise Stations -- I'm warning you. If you don't go with the Socialists Committee into a meaningful, practical, system-based dialogue with a view to the outcome, we're going to organize further protests, and we're going to stop the Railroad again, as we did six months ago. I'm giving you a very serious warning here. More mouse cats with our committee and trade unions, we won't let the Ministry drive. Solve the issue of wages and social protection of half a million U.S. personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u65	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Out of place, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support this bill. In 2014, I served as the minister of infrastructure and signed an order 200 for the creation of the Pat "Ukrasliznica". But that was when Russian aggression took place. PAT "Urzalznica" did not enter the statutory fund of the railway, the infrastructure of the "Donetsk Railway", which is located in temporarily occupied areas, i.e. Pat "Urzlzalnica" is not a successor. And the banks that have been issuing credits to the Donetsk Railway now require Pat Crucibles to repay and service $200 million in debt. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. We had already made that decision in the hall, and it brought the whole room together. We helped the Crucify during the anti-terror operation. You and I have heard and made decisions about the end of the anti-terror operation and the start of the United Forces (UNO) operation, so by this technical, technical bill, we're helping the Cruise Railways not to handle the $200 million loan given to the Donetsk Railway because it's not yet entered the Cruise Road. You can't put into the statute fund what you don't inventory, see it's currently temporarily occupied in the territory. So please vote, support this decision. And once again, you and I have accepted this, but we have accepted it for the areas that are in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Now technically, we're adding United Forces operations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u67	Thank you for your clarification. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u68	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Opposition Block. I will point out that there is no reason to support this bill, based on the fact that, in fact, all the requirements of the Constitution are being violated today, there is already a military state. You know, you even took the right to self-government and passed it on to military administrations. This is a clear element of military doctrine, military administration in this area. So, what do we know about, what do we know about, what do we know about, what do we know about, what do we think of, where are we going? All of this is about both further and further separatist actions, in fact, to dissipate the society that is there and that is here. And they are the only part of Ukraine's nationality, that's what this is all about. That's why we vote in favour of such a bill. We can already see what gave us the blockade, the blockade that gave us the Herson blasts of the LEP and everything. And that's why, in my opinion, I'm asking you a question about it at all. There is no reason for this bill or vote. And that's why I think, and this is the position of the Opposition Block that there's no basis for supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u69	Thank you. From the factions. A radical party, then. Please, Radical Party, two minutes, then Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address the government and the minister of infrastructure. The Crucifixion is on the way to pick up freight fares. This means that our national producers lose their markets, lose their ability to raise workers' wages. In addition, very many dirty wagons, such as those in the trunks, have once been used by the Germans in such wagons, and today our people ride in these so - called passenger cars. In addition, for the last two years, four or five times has already been raised. They promised new wagons, promised to expand the railway infrastructure. Instead, we see almost four hundred railway stations all over Ukraine closing down: in Montenegro, in Poltavščina, in the Sumstina, and in many other areas of Ukraine. A national manufacturer can't take a wagon, a huge train deficit, there are legends that have to be paid 300 dollars to get a wagon to transport its produce. Priority is given, for example, to Russian companies transiting their products through Ukraine, and our national producers cannot deliver their products on time, so they cut contracts and have no Ukraine's foreign exchange proceeds. When will you order? When will corruption stop there? Where is the money spent on increasing passenger and freight transportation? Billions of dollars raise the price of tickets for freight. Where are the new wagons? Where is the reconstruction of the railway? Why are the stations closing? Tens of thousands of people are unemployed, unable to feed their families. I'm asking the government, the Crucify, the Mini Infrastructure to change this policy, to develop a national transport network that has to work for a national producer, for a national economy, for the development of an internal market, and not work for bribes, incomprehensible for whom, by destroying national production, leaving people unemployed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u71	And, colleagues, the closing statement is Sergey Eutuszek. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, mobilize national deputies. Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u72	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. This morning we had a meeting before the plenary meeting with the Minister of Infrastructure and in principle agreed on these minor rights that could be corrected by technical legal rights on the ATO-OC committee. And in fact, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, realizing that appeals to the assets of Pat "The Crucifixion" by creditors for liabilities will be terminated. So I'd like to pay attention to other things right now, other questions. What's really going on at the Crucifixion? When we see a number of questions in this room to the head of the Crucifixion: why don't graphs do repairs or purchase new wagons, new pulls, why don't they do repairs on active locomotives that already have resources and drive for 40 years, but their limit age, resource age is 20 years. The answer is very simple for all speakers, as long as managers such as Kravtsov, who performs the duties of the head of the Cruise Railways, will manage this company as long as we have such a situation, as long as such leaders are consciously creating corruption schemes, as long as we have a collapse and including on the Crucifixions. So today, when you answer the question of what to do, you have to first change the direction, change the management, and make it possible to make it clear, normally through competitions, to conduct and issue cars, and to buy locomotives. and electric vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u73	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I'd like to maximize your mobility. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings, whose assets are located in the area of secession and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression (No. 9069) on the basis of and as a whole, taking into account the technical and legal rights of the committee. Exclusion from the text of the bill the words “which are carried out through the operation of the United Nations Force (UNO). So, colleagues, 9069 as a basis, and in general, I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, every voice matters. Vote. [[17:29:53]] For 219 We didn't make it. Come into the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize your mobility. Now I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it back. So, colleagues, I'm making an offer. So, colleagues, then I'm going to make the first suggestion to go back to the draft Law 9069. And I ask, colleagues, to vote for the return. Please vote, please support. Vote. Ira! [[17:30:44]] For 223 I see you're back. So, colleagues, please be in the workplace during the vote, don't leave the hall. The first vote is to return. I ask everyone to support the return to draft Law 9069. So, carefully, each voice. Please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Vote. We'll support the return. [[17:31:22]] For 224 Two votes! Two votes, colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] What is the problem? Well, they're in the hall with these two voices. Colleagues, please take up jobs. I'll take the third time back. Please take up jobs. And during the vote, please take part in the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 9069 and I'm asking everyone to vote responsibly. We're voting for our return. Vote, colleagues, every voice, carefully, responsibly. [[17:32:08]] For 230 230. We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 9069, as I said, with technical legal rights as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting on technical law. Keep it up, fellows. That's right. [[17:32:37]] For 230 Decision taken. The law is passed. And we move on to the next question of infrastructure, the draft Law on Railway Transport of Ukraine (7316). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:33:09]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Ukraine’s Railway Transport Bill is a key project that is not the first month ahead of the sector. The bill foresees the following fundamental changes: rail transport services will be able to provide private carriers, not just Pat "The Crossroads", which will help to eliminate the deficit of the traction warehouse, improve the quality of services through competition in the market. A carrier can be any operator regardless of the form of ownership that will provide a heavy-duty warehouse, gets a license and a security certificate. The transfer fee is not regulated by the State and is determined by carriers, which provides for the possibility of setting an economically sound tariff with a view to income. State regulation is subject to mandatory infrastructure access tariffs and tariffs for services provided by monopolized entities. The use of general-use infrastructure is made available to carriers on a non-discriminatory basis. PAT "Urzlaznica" will be responsible for the infrastructure of rail transport, highway railways, railway stations, train stations, contact network and other equipment of electrical supply, signalling systems, centralization, blockage and control of train traffic, etc. Infrastructural operators, carriers, and railway operators will need to develop, implement, and improve their own safety management systems that will increase safety on rail transport. The committee's proposals in conclusion and the committee supported them. Please support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u75	The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u76	The Railway Transport Bill is aimed at creating conditions for the development of a competitive environment in the rail transport market and the implementation of European Union legislation under the Association Agreement. The bill defines basic legal, organisational and socio-economic principles for the operation of Ukrainian rail transport; ensuring non-discriminatory and equitable access to infrastructure services; allowing private carriers to provide services for rail transport; introducing free tariffs for transport; and preserving State tariffs for infrastructure services and services provided by monopolistic entities. Taking into account the Committee's proposals, allowing the bill to be implemented in accordance with the requirements of legal certainty and European directives, to regulate market relations, to improve the quality and safety of services and rail transport. Following a review of the bill at the meeting on 16 May, the Committee decided to recommend the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Railway Transport Act (7316). The definition of the scope of the law, article 2, of the railway authorities, their powers and sources of financing, articles 5 and 6, of the tariff policy on rail transport. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 7316 as a basis for the Committee's drafting, as concluded at 16.05. 18th year. Dear fellow national MPs, there are so many speeches here by national deputies that the railway does not handle its work. Today's vote on this bill will open up the market for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u77	Please, one minute. This is a very important bill. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u78	This bill allows us to allow equal access to railway infrastructure. And the problem of the gravity that is now very difficult on rail transport can be solved by involving private operators, who, thanks to the involvement of the private drive, especially the maneuvered drive, especially for station service, because the main problem is now on the railway, that the railways, the locomotives that the highways are pulling, bring to the node station, there is no manoeuvre to bring them to the consumer. That's the main problem. I ask you to concentrate, assemble and support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u79	Thank you. Your time is up. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to sign up for this bill. Please, National Deputy Korchik, present the position of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! This law is absolutely necessary, it will help us to reform the sector, it will help us to develop the market for the railways needed for competition in the same market. Worked with all participants in the transport market on the Committee leads to EU standards. Now, finally, we're going to get a new model of the rail transport market, on which we're going to have competitive, efficient, mobile participants, both private and state-owned. Each of them will be granted the right to access the railway infrastructure on an equal footing. Another important moment. Requirements are laid down for traffic safety management systems. The level of safety of rail traffic should go up to the European level, and that's the law that deals with all these issues. It is essential for the development of this field. I ask everyone to support and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the workday is over, let us honor each other's ears. Really? Please, National Deputy Dubnevich of the Petra Prashenko faction. National Deputy Dubnevich of the Peter Prashenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill on the basis that we have a terrible situation with regard to securing the thrust of a mobile warehouse on the Crucifixion. Unfortunately, the Crucifixion is as critical as it is here, and no matter how much the culprits are looking for, it's not possible to provide for today's repairs and purchases of a tractor warehouse of locomotives and electric vehicles. We need to understand, and I thank you for the previous bill, which enabled you to save about 4 billion dollars in "The Crucibles" that you voted on the previous bill. The bill opens up the possibility of involving the private power of owners, Ukrainian owners, in careers, in mines, in metallurgical combinations, in cement factories, allowing for the expansion of the commitment to transport on rail freight infrastructure. This will increase the capacity of the Crossroads. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u83	Thank you. People's deputy Kulinic from the Rebirth Group is invited to the floor. People's MP Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u84	Please give the word of Ostapchuku to Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u85	Please, Mr. Victor Ostapchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, as a railway worker with a lot of railway work, I want to tell you that this bill is a starting point for real reforms in the field. The bill presents a new model for the rail transport market, similar to European rail systems. And I want to pay attention to two moments. The formation of a new tariff policy for rail transport, the tariff for rail infrastructure services, will be regulated by the State. And what I'm saying is that we've talked a lot about cars today, locomotives, tariffs on railway infrastructure services will be an investment component that can only be used to implement approved investment projects for infrastructure development. And the second moment is a new approach to organizing socially important passenger transport by rail. I underline that the organization of social important passenger transport by rail, including tariffs for such transport, will be through contracts between the State and carriers, which, on the one hand, will write down strict criteria for the quality of such transports and, on the other hand, a clear commitment by the public authorities to pay the difference between prices for tickets and economically based tariffs. Thank you for your attention. I very much ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u87	Thank you. And please, let's have a word with Vladimir Gusak, please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u88	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! It is very good that today Parliament is considering a bill on rail transport. It was to be accepted a few years ago. In Ukraine, the railway is the main means of moving people and transports more than 60 percent of all cargo. It's impossible to overestimate the value of Crucibles for Ukraine's economy. But in the last few years, the situation on the Crucifixions has been characterized as a disaster and a collapse. Since 2014, six railway managers have changed, most of whom have been performing duties. By the way, the very responsibility is now. On the other hand, there is a constant increase in tariffs. The recent increases that are now taking place almost every month have sparked tremendous indignation in society, including in this room. It's obvious that the old Crucifixion Base isn't going to work properly or die at all. And in general, the economy of Ukraine will finally die with it, and new principles will be needed. And this bill partially creates a new foundation, you can emphasize two things. The first is to separate the carrier's activities from the infrastructure operator, which creates opportunities for real involvement of the private drive to work on the Cruise Stations, and now the lack of electricity and heat is a major problem. And the second is the transfer of functions, the setting of tariffs for an independent regulator, the National Commission for State regulation in the field of transport. This bill is not ideal, perfect, and, perhaps, in the second reading in that form, we will not vote for it. But in the first reading, we support the bill, because the Ukrainian railway has to work properly, and the economy is developing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u89	Please, the national deputy Eutuszek is now invited to present the position of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u90	Eutusek, the "Fatherland" faction. Should the Law on Rail Transport be adopted today? Yes, I do. In view of what is going on in the railways, is there today a number of tests to be done, to carry out and to understand where and where the funds are going? Yes, I do. But I firmly agree with you, Jaroslav Vasilovich Dubnevich, that in order to engage in private transportation, it is necessary to legislate. I think we can regulate here, Jaroslav Vasilovich, other legal acts, other government decisions. Maybe. And in principle, I would like to refer to the social component that is also in this bill. In fact, we know that the Crucifixion is such a huge organ that all objects of social importance were part of. It's also a hospital, it's both schools and other directions where our railroad workers were able to teach their children, treat them, and so forth. Now in the bill, these things are coming out. So I would think it would seem wrong for me to have to shut down all the hospitals that serve railways, we have to shut down all the schools that are also part of railways, sports clubs and everything. If I hear from the hall that there are no hospitals, yes, that's true, there are already a lot of hospitals closed, but for today there are at least in the big cities hospitals that are still carrying out their services. I also want to point out that the bill foresees the creation of a new organ, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u91	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u92	Although I do understand that the Ministry of Infrastructure can do it without problems. I also want to point out that for those non-commercial flights, unattractive flights that will not be carried out, they will, as it were, make up for losses in the local authorities, loss, including profit. So, basically, in the first reading, we're ready to support this law, but I would like to, Mr. Minister, from your faction discussion to talk about all these things that I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, now from the non-fractional two minutes of Lechchenko, and then the minister will summarize our discussion. Two minutes, please, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u94	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. What is happening now in the Hall, the consideration of this bill, is the continuation of that disgraceful policy of total neoliberalism, which is being carried out by this call of the Supreme Council, when instead of correcting public institutions, instead of assigning normal people to run these institutions to root out corruption, instead of giving normal funding to the necessary public companies, they simply give up the function of a state as such. They're just refusing! They make private bailiffs, they do. they are transferring more and more powers to private authorities rather than, in fact, to perform the functions of the State. The Supreme Council has already voted, unfortunately, for permission to build private roads, private vans. Recently, the minister of transportation announced the cost of driving such a van. So if you count how far it's going to go, it turns out that you're literally going to be able to afford it, literally, one and a half percent of the citizens of Ukraine. Yes. Yeah, and now we're looking at rail transport. Instead of allocating normal funding for the Railroad, you're spending billions on, for example, the National Police -- completely unnecessary billions to protect yourself to protect the oligarhat. You're putting absolutely wrong priorities, and then you say, oh, and Crossroads can't provide transportation, oh, what do we do, and let's give it all to the privates. Yeah? It's totally bullshit. World experience has shown that the worst railway connections in those countries, Western ones, where private railway companies are Britain, are the same United States. If we compare, for example, with Germany and Switzerland, we're going to see that the railway connection is much worse, it's an experience, it's a fact of the world. You're now proposing, in fact, to start a private railway in Ukraine is the first step, but it was going on. Do not engage in the destruction of the state. Instead of destroying the state and giving up authority, do your best to be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u95	So, colleagues, now I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We are nearing the conclusion of this consideration. Now, one minute, Burbak. One minute, Caplin. Two minutes, Minister. Colleagues, in four minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Please invite everyone to the hall, please see who's not here and forcefully invite everyone into the hall. Please, Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk to you about some of the issues that relate to the Crucifixions and the infrastructures of Ukraine, and we're having a professional discussion, not hearing all sorts of ignorances that don't even deal with the substance of the matter. Almost all European countries have a private pressure because private companies have the right to manage their mobile warehouse more effectively, and they have the right to drive their trucks with their cars and their locomotives. And to tell you about the world experience, you don't have to do that. Great Britain: there are private carriers, there are government carriers, when private carriers cannot handle their function -- the state is buying back and then, when they're correcting the situation -- then it allows you to privatize. So we first saw the cry of populism on that side. The next speaker will also speak with a cry of populism. And I'm talking to everyone: vote and give the carriers the opportunity to have a private drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, one minute, Caplin. And then two minutes of Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u98	Listen, including the leader of the People's Front faction, a populist who's looking into the subject of the Crucifixion. In 1946 the government of Etley in Britain, who came, decided to nationalize their railway lines. But he gave the opportunity to work in private, balancing it with the state. Then, using the practice of doing business operations, doing economics, they've gone completely into using private drive. This is somewhat contrary to the traditional assumptions of Labour Britain, as you know, social-democratic ambushes. But they took this step because of the need to change infrastructure modernization, demonopolization and integration of their market, their sector into the European rail network and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u99	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u100	So maybe for the first time in my life, I'm going to support Arsenius Yatsenuk Burbak, and I'm going to vote with my colleague in favour of this bill to support Ukrainian producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u101	Please, two minutes. Omelian, Minister of Infrastructure. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u102	Thank you. Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble national MPs! The criticism that sounded today in the hall is 99 percent fair. What's more, I want to add 25 percent of the production in Ukraine by Ukrainian businesses was not exported just because the Crucifixion wasn't ready to provide transportation. That is, 25 percent of your electorate’s jobs were lost simply because the railway is not functioning properly. There are terrible billions of robberies just because the company is not working transparently. The bill has been drafted not only by Minister Omellan or the head of the Dubnevich Committee but has been developed for four years by a number of Ukrainian, European, American experts. He's finally acquired the perfect form and meaning. So this is a huge request: if we want to have a modern company, the company number one employer in Ukraine that will provide the right conditions, which is 300,000 people, it's a million, if you count families, it's one and a half million votes, give them a chance to develop, give them a chance to reform and move Ukraine forward. It's up to you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u103	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to come into the hall, as soon as a few people have left the hall, please come back, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote, please come into the hall. Don't go out, Mr. Ivan, go back to the hall. Please. So you just told me not to put up a negative activity, because there are no voices. No, you told me not to put it to a vote. Please vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote the draft Law on Rail Transport of Ukraine (No. 7316) on the committee's decision as the basis for the committee's drafting, according to the conclusion of 16.05. 2018. Please vote and please support. Let us unite, fellow workers, and finish the day well. Let's support it, let's vote. Please support, please vote, vote. [[17:57:40]] For 202 I'll be back. Guys, come back, come back to the hall. I'll read by factions: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 70, "National Front" – 76, "Block of Opposition" – 24, "Help" – 11, Radical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 1, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 10. All factions support, colleagues. We just have to invite people into the hall. I'm asking the heads of factions. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, let's unite. It's an important day. Let's finish it well. If I give you two or three more words, we'll never get a chance. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Railway Transport Act of Ukraine (7316). Colleagues, let's vote in agreement and come back. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:58:56]] For 206 What's the matter? You should have voted, colleagues. Well, you're in the hall, you promised to vote. Guys, I'm gonna put it back on now. Please mobilize. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. I'm asking you to support everyone. You promised to support me during the discussion, colleagues. Please support me. Don't leave the hall. Heads of factions, well, watch yours. Well, why should I humiliate myself for your work? Why should the head of parliament be most concerned about the laws, and you, the heads of factions, are releasing deputies from the hall? Because Paris is a patriot, right. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the draft Rail Transport Act of Ukraine. And please, colleagues, be responsible for supporting everyone. This will be right and just. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We vote, every vote matters, we vote. Keep it up, fellows. [[18:00:24]] For 215 . I've done it twice. So, colleagues, there's a few votes missing. Please take your seats, please come into the hall. Call whoever's in the towers. Colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting until the end of this matter. Please come into the hall, everyone, please prepare. Don't come out, Alexei. Put Musak back in the room. Is he calling? All right, Musak calls, okay. So they came in like this? Fellows, I'll bet you one more time. I ask everyone to return to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Railway Transport Act of Ukraine (No. 7316). Please vote, please support, colleagues. Everyone vote, please vote. Vote. [[18:01:41]] For 216 There were fewer votes than there were, colleagues. Colleagues, voices are even smaller than they used to be. To work with the committee, colleagues. Let's get together, work on the committee. I'm asking you, colleagues, to unite, this is a compromise position for the committee to re-read. So, colleagues, let's do this vote. Please all unite, this is a compromising position – the committee for the re-reading of the first reading. So I'm voting on the proposal that the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act (7316) should be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. To the committee! We vote for coming back to the committee. It's a compromise, please support everyone. Keep it up, fellows. Hold on! Vote. You'll support the committee. Okay. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[18:02:53]] For 221 The final proposal is the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. I propose a draft Rail Transport Act (7316) to direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:03:24]] For 215 Ukraine’s Railway Transport Bill (7316) has been rejected. Two more applications, please. Two applications, please. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, there was no credit card for the Rizanenka People's Deputies when voting on the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy. And he's asking you to consider his vote "yes." The card didn't work. And on the contrary, the People's Deputy of Revega asks that it be reported that it is wrong, that the Council system reflects voting as "yes" in the voting of the Resolution on Approval of Proposals for the Application of Personal Social Economic and Other Restrictive Action(s). He held on. His card worked badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u105	Thank you. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u106	I'm forced to take the floor for the first time. I want to pay attention to the Ukrainians, an extremely important law that would allow for the reform of railway infrastructure, to raise the wages of railways, by creating competition, to reduce the cost of freight and passenger transport. Only as a result of undisciplinedness, irresponsibility, lack of discipline and conscience in deputies have such an important law failed. That is why it is extremely relevant and what we insist on reducing the number of MPs to 250. When we are asked in Ukraine to make a parliamentary republic, how can this rotten swamp be trusted with the future of its children and its country, when it is unable to come and adopt laws that actually make the country a successful country and the development of the economy also to be a success. So the lack of discipline, the lack of order in the country, the lack of accountability to the electorate leads to such catastrophic consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m1.u107	So, colleagues, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, we have had a difficult, emotional day, but today we have adopted extremely important bills. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting you to the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. Good evening.
