ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I remind you that after considering the limited liability association bill, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal by the Security Committee on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of State policy for ensuring Ukraine's state sovereignty. ".. I ask once again that the factions be able to look at these clarifications so that we can get a positive vote. After this bill I propose to the committee, the Rules allow and provide for, I will make a clarification to Bill 7163. So, colleagues, please take up jobs and please register. Let's register. [[16:04:30]] 363 – yes. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I remind you, by noon we had entered into a large and reforming draft of the Society Law with limited and additional responsibility. We didn't make it through all the lunches, we stopped at the left of 441 people's deputies Rybchin. The total right is 500, so I'm asking you to maximize the mobilization of MPs. And now we're going to continue the discussion. And I invite you to the statement of the author of 441 papers, Mr. Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u2	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. My amendment relates to the obligation to repeal the Code of Masters and provides that the Cabinet of Ministers should, within a year, bring about the validity of the bill. To improve the legal arrangements for commercial activity in Ukraine and to submit a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the Code of Masters. And the argument is that many articles of the Code of Lords are resonating with the Civil Code and contain outdated Soviet norms. Moreover, the provisions of the Code of Lords do not correspond to modern commercial realities, aggravate investment climate, and provide opportunities for corruption. If we accept, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said, this reform bill, the Code of Lords must be repealed – it will also be a reformer act. I ask the head of the honourable committee to comment on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u3	Comment, Andry Volodymyrovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u4	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor! Thank you for your support. I'll tell you more, I have a dream of eliminating the master code of Ukraine. If you help me do this, we can do this together. Thank you. I support, please, Mr. Head, the amendment to the vote, because the Code of Lords is the rudimentary of the post-Radians system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u5	And back up Rybkin's edit. I'm voting 441. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:07:09]] For-78 The potential is high, but the decision is not made. 442. Don't insist. 443rd. Don't insist. 444th. Don't insist. 445th. Don't insist. 450. Don't insist. 461, National Deputy Sotnik. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u6	Thank you. This amendment applies to article 100 regarding the exit and disfellowshipping. I propose to delete the changes to 100 articles. In parallel, as this is going to be the last amendment that I'm putting to the vote, I would like to point out that it is. I'd like us to follow the Rules. And the question of changes that are not in the table before the second reading must at least be shaped by the committee's decision. It's a very dangerous practice -- a precedent when we make changes without. without even a committee decision, as it is now proposed in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u7	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u8	Dear Mrs. Sotnik, I am only doing your will and the will of other national MPs, all the subjects of the legislative initiative are now being heard when considering every thought. And I'm reporting to Parliament the position of all the MPs who are taking part in the drafting of this bill, and it's only a hall that can be determined by a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u9	Thank you very much. Do you insist on voting? No, Mrs. Olena doesn't insist on voting. 462. Don't insist. 478th. Don't insist. 485, Muschak, overruled. Don't insist. 490th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 592nd Bird. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there is still a problem in this bill that the possibility of depriving the heirs of a dead member of a limited-liability society remains a problem. If all those who have raised this issue today really want to solve this problem and ensure the right of heirs to receive compensation, I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 122 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, where I ask you, on the basis of this article, to create an editorial group in order to further develop the text that the Head of the Committee of Economic Policy has spoken under the transcript. Because we haven't considered these positions during the Economic Policy Committee meeting, and it's obvious that an editorial group has to write an appropriate editorial to ensure the right of heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u11	Comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u12	I think it's really the right thing to do. But I would like to say, Mr. Head, that when I, as chairman of the committee, sign a bill for you to sign, I take the stenogram into account, I take into account the views of all those who took part in the discussion. I never do that in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, and I would like to invite all the interested parties, after the adoption of this bill as a whole, to vote effectively, before we properly write and prepare a quality document for the signature of the Speaker of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u13	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Victoria? Don't insist. My colleagues, I want to make a point, there's five left and in a few minutes we're going to go to the vote. So I'm asking all the factions to invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible, and I'm also asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall, who are in the towers, who are having the discussions. Please come into the hall and take your jobs, and in a few minutes we'll move on to making a decision. So 496a. Don't insist. 493. Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council do not provide for the reading of individual provisions during the consideration of the bill for second reading, including the head of the committee. So to be adequate, once again, if these positions are to be inserted in order for the editor to be adequate so that there are no manipulations to make heirs, participants. The dead members of limited liability societies have not been deprived of their right to an inheritance, have not been deprived of their right to receive compensation, and I ask you to pay attention to 122 articles of the Rules and still to create an editorial group that will provide an adequate editing first, and, secondly, will prescribe a text for the signature of the relevant law, because we have now removed many positions from the editorial board without confirming the amendments that were put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u15	Please comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich, on your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u16	Dear Mrs. Victoria, you and I have long worked with the Economic Policy Committee, and I have always been adequate. And I think in this case, I'm going to keep the bill adequate, and I'm going to consult you and sign the quality of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u17	Thank you. I confirm that Andrew Volodymyrovich is an adequate reformer national deputy of Ukraine. Do you insist on voting? They don't insist on voting. We can vote in favour of this position, which has sparked discussion in the room. Yeah, let's go to 501 revisions. Don't insist. And the last extreme correction that was rejected is the 503. Is the author insisting? No, it doesn't. So, dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion. 503 amendments were before this bill, most of them included. Yeah, okay. And so, colleagues, it is now very important that the committee head can draw the conclusion and conclusion of our discussion. So I'm giving him not three minutes, but five minutes to sound the positions that have been compromised during a difficult but productive discussion with different factions. And I'm asking the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to take a stand in five minutes and make his recommendations. In five minutes, we'll move on to the vote. So we invite the deputies to the hall. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich I ask to speak the word of the people of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We are discussing a bill on limited liability societies in the south. I don't know how I have to speak out loud so you can all hear me. This bill is a very big reform, but there are two issues that have raised debate in this room. The first question is that you have highlighted the attention of Ms. People's Deputy Sotnik. They refer to rights of interest. And I want everyone to hear me: all the changes that have now been broken, unaccounted for, we have to go back to their consideration. Otherwise, we will violate the logic of the law. I want all the deputies, everyone who hears us, to understand what's written in this bill. We give the founders of companies with limited liability in the charter or in a corporate contract the right to determine for themselves what they consider to be an interest, which the governing bodies have rights to exercise, that they have the right to sign, that they have no right. I call this law a law that will allow the founders of limited liability societies, and I repeat that this is the very common form of business in Ukraine, to write a constitution for themselves, for their children. And we can't limit it by law. This law, it is as dispositive as possible. And I ask you very much, Mr. Head, to return to the amendments that I am about to make the law a whole, European and reformer. The second argument that arose. This instead of discussing corporate governance issues of limited liability societies, the best modern European practices, we started discussing an inheritance. Dear friends, I rarely speak in my position. But when I go to Parliament, to my fellow MPs, I think very carefully what I'm saying. And when it comes to inheritance, I want everyone to understand and understand this situation that's happening right now. There are two founders of a limited society. They have rights, they have signed the charter voluntarily, they have joined together to create a business. They signed a corporate agreement. This law gives them the right to do so. One, one founder, God forbid, he's dead. Here comes his heir. Please tell me, why should an heir have more rights than a father or a mother? It doesn't make sense. The rights of the one who died, the member of the association, the same rights remain with his heirs. But for today's heir, and I'm telling you, I've told everyone on all the factions about my daughter. To this day, a loving heir should come to worship other members of the Society. They must make some decisions to enable them to register themselves as a participant in this business. We cleaned up this rudimentary, it's not fair. Now, my daughter, if I don't, and I'm going to have a limited share of the company, if you support this reform law, she's going to inherit, she's going to go with the death certificate to the notary, she's going to inherit, she's going to go to the registrar, and she's not going to ask my business partners -- they're going to automatically make her the founder of this company. I'm asking you to stop all this speculation. This is a big step forward. If anyone asks me, Andrew, 100 percent of the problems are solved. Clearly, three months later, with you, dear friends, we can make changes to this bill. But come on, let it work. Trust me, all the legal companies in Ukraine, top-10, support this bill 100%. We've owed it for 25 years. In the '90s, we came up with the Law on Economic Associations. We are now implementing modern, progressive ones themselves. And if we say we're going to Europe, let's all vote together for Bill 4666 in second reading and in general. And you, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to return to the amendments: 142, 235, 356, 357, 387 and 392. The return and maintenance of these seven amendments, which are taken into account by the committee that is in the body of the law, will give us the opportunity to get a quality, balanced bill. Thank you very much to all who have joined in this work. I thank all those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u19	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u20	And believe me, all those who vote for this bill will all get very much thanks from the Ukrainian business and from the Ukrainian lawyers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u21	Heroic glory! Well, let me tell you, it's only for such a fiery speech that it's worth voting for, colleagues. I think everyone will agree with me. That was brilliant, Andry Volodymyrovich. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I will be the first to propose that the committee head return to the amendments: 142, 235, 356, 357, 387 and 392. Please support the committee head and vote in favour of returning to the consideration of these rights. First, for the return. Everyone, please take your seats and vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:22:26]] For 276 I now put to the vote the proposal to support these seven amendments that have just been resounded. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[16:22:54]] For 274 Decision taken. And let's move on to the adoption of the law itself. Colleagues, our goal is 300 votes. I ask you to vote with discipline. So I'm betting. [[B in m in s a l in]] With technical law, I'll call it. I am putting to the vote (I will read correctly) the draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibility Society Act (No. 4666) with those rights which have been issued by the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andri Vladimirovich, under the transcript, and with technical and legal rights for the drafting of the bill for second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, 300 votes! Please vote, every vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. We're backing it up. [[16:23:58]] For 285 The law is passed. And colleagues, I welcome the adoption of a very important reform law necessary for European integration. Everyone, please stay in the workplace. Colleagues, as I have warned you on more than one occasion, do not leave the hall. An amendment to the Act on Deploitation. Clarification. Colleagues, everyone stays in the workplace. The committee clarified the law so that I could sign it today. These things, on the one hand, are technical and legal rights, on the other, important in terms of the continuation of military and civilian administrations. I literally give the floor to the committee's representative, John Winnick, and immediately, to the vote. Don't leave the hall. Please, John Winnick, one minute. And we're voting for a clarification of the law on de-occupation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I'll be as concise as possible. In fact, all we're saying right now is that we could work within the committee in a technical and legal way. But given the importance of this project, the registration of regulations for violations of the Rules, in the 131st order, we ask you to clarify the points that are set out in the submission of the committee that you were given. Please be supportive. Do I have to read the transcript?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u23	You don't have to. They were all given away, all known.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u24	Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u25	Thank you. So the colleagues were given all the details. Everyone was able to determine at lunchtime, and I'm betting on the vote. Please take your seats, please come into the hall and get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u26	Papieuve denies it, I say under the transcript. So, my colleague, I'm putting to the vote the issue of the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy in Securing the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetské and Luhansk areas. (No. 7163) Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we're voting carefully. Every voice matters. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[16:26:31]] For 228 Clarifications have been introduced. Decision taken. And I'm asking the apparatus to prepare a bill as quickly as possible. If we can make it so I can sign it publicly now, during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. The next bill is that we continue to block economic policy – this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register and improving credit risk management processes for banks (No. 7114-d). It's the second reading, colleagues, so there's no need to define the procedure. The amendment is few: only 40 amendments. So I'm asking everyone to stay put. And now I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Financial Committee. Yeah, a representative of the Ruslan Demczak Committee. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, we propose a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and maintenance of the Credit Register of the National Bank of Ukraine and improving credit risk management processes (No. 7114-d). And as I continue with this emotional speech by my colleague Ivanchuk Andry, I also want to use these bottles and say, right now there's one bank and he has loans, there's another bank that. loans, and there's a National Bank that can't divulge a commercial secret to the next bank, because in the first bank the loan -- it's subject to bank secrecy and the National Bank can't pass information on to the other bank. The point of the bill is that now, in order for the banking market, the credit market to be more accessible, more transparent, this commercial secret of the National Bank of Credit Register, which is now being created, will have the right to transfer to another bank. And here we've made fuses: so that we don't break the business of credit offices, private credit offices, to 100 minimum wages, we've limited the supply and transfer of information in the form of a commercial secret from one bank to another. The total was 48 lines out of 73, 10 -- in part, 8 -- in fact, only 25 were rejected. Please don't break up, we'll get through them very quickly, and I think we'll generally support this bill. Moreover, I would like to stress that this bill is one of the beacons for getting help from the European Union. And that's why it's going to be a very important decision to show that we're working on the indicators and within the framework that the European Union needs right now. And now that the International Monetary Fund has been suspended, it's going to be a very nice and correct message. So I'd like to go to the law review. Dear Chairman, come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u28	Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, right hand really isn't much, I think we're going to go through them 10 minutes ago. I'm asking you to be disciplined, to be in the hall. I'm going to call the corrections rejected, who wants to put on confirmation, can do it by raising their hand. 1st. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 26th. Don't insist. 29th. Don't insist. 31st. Don't insist. 35th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. 38th. 38th. 22nd. 22 revisions. I'm asking you to turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone. It's partially accounted for. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u29	I thank you for taking most of the credits into account, but there are two that I'm going to insist on. 22 The amendment indicates that a mechanism to control the use of credit register information by banks is needed. By law you have foreseen that the debtor and other persons whose information is contained in the Credit Register are entitled to access. At the same time, it is not defined what information is available and what period will be included in the query information. The borrower has a right to know who approached the Credit Register and received information. In this regard, it is vital that the law provides for the obligation of the NBA to enter a register of requests with a reference to which the bank has applied. This will allow you to control the distribution of information about it. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u30	Comment briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u31	This is taken into account in part by the request of a natural or legal person, and such information will be made available.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u33	We can put it to a vote, but it's essentially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u34	Thank you. It's partially accounted for. Mrs. Kugel insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports Mrs. Kugel's proposal, please vote. [[16:32:36]] Z-71 The decision is not made. I'll keep reading where I'm staying. 61st. 60th. Once again, Mrs. Kugel, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u35	Again, I urge you to write in part, but you didn't count the most. 60 amendment says that we know that the law allows you to store information on an uninterrupted basis. I think it's useless. It has to be written that since the day the loan was repaid, the person who did not close the loan on time has been there for less than ten years, I suggest, five enough. But it's timeless to hold on to information that may not, of course, be used against a person, I think it's very expensive and pointless. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u36	Thank you. Correction counted in part. Mrs. Kugel insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports Kugel's proposal, please vote, vote. [[16:33:59]] For-76 The decision is not made. 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. 70th. Don't insist. And so, colleagues, we've completed our consideration of all the amendments to this draft law. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies to the Hall. I give the first deputy the word Doubbenko Mikhail Volodymyrovich, one minute. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall in a minute. Please, microphone Doubenko Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u37	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, this bill is now being considered in a second reading. So far, a working group has worked very actively to take into account all the comments, suggestions and additions that were before this bill. And I'm glad that we've agreed with all the institutions and we've come up with a consistent text. So I'm asking you to back this up today. The only thing I'm asking Mr. Head, 19 orders to place for confirmation, taking into account everything I've said, in the final vote. Thank you. 19 clearance for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u38	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u39	19 readjustments for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u40	So I'm betting on confirmation number 19. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[16:36:06]] For-48 The decision is not taken. And now, please, Mr. Ruslan, the closing statement. How long have you been here?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u41	One minute is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u42	One minute. And, colleagues, in a minute, there will be a vote I ask everyone to come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, on account of the storage of information. This credit register, it's electronic, so there won't be any cost of storing information there. With regard to the removal of credit from the register, the law states that for 30 days the National Bank is obliged to remove this information from the Credit Register. This rule is that it does not frighten anyone. As a result, I would like to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation and maintenance of the Credit Register of the National Bank of Ukraine and improving credit risk management processes for banks (No. 7114-d) to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. To commission a committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out technical and legal harmonization of the text of the bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u44	So we're finishing the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please! An extremely important bill, important for Ukraine as well, but it's also one of the requirements of the IMF, and therefore extremely responsible is our vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs, stop discussions, prepare for a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the creation and maintenance of the National Bank of Ukraine Credit Register and improving the management of credit risk management of banks (No. 7114-d) at the request of a second-reading committee and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Ready? Vote! Please be supportive. [[16:38:48]] For 216 I see the colleagues have not arrived. Come on, invite the deputies into the hall. I'm asking you to show the factions. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, invite deputies to a hall that is not in the hall. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Just not all MPs took part in the vote. You're welcome. Yes, is everyone in the hall? Can I put it? So, colleagues, responsiblely, each voice has a weight, please prepare for the vote. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for Bill 7114-d. Colleagues, please, please vote for the return, for the return. We vote in favour. [[Noise Nodes]] Yes, come in, sit down. Vote, colleagues, for your return. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:41:02]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm putting Bill 7114d in second reading and in general with technical law. Please, colleagues, every voice has a weight. Take your seats. During the vote. Please, Mr. Ruslan, return to the hall. So, please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful, careful, everyone's voice. Vote, please. Vote. [[16:41:59]] For 226 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I mean, the decision is made. Colleagues, the next we have is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (7363), and then we'll put the Anti-Corruption Court in order. Therefore, I ask you to be very careful not to give up. After this law 7363, I will propose that the day-to-day Anti-Corruption Court be placed in order. So, colleagues, I ask you now to vote in favour of the short-term draft of Law 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2. Please vote, please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Vote. [[16:43:02]] For 135 We didn't make it, I see. Guys, take your seats. Now I'm going to go over the draft laws with a reduced procedure. Colleagues, we're good at making decisions. I'm asking you to back me up. As we enter into the hourly consideration, it will be difficult for us to mobilize ourselves for the Anti-Corruption Court Act. I would like to support the review of the simplified procedure 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[16:43:53]] For-141 I'll do it again, colleagues. I'm asking you to show the factions. This is the third time I'm going to do it. "Block of Petra Prashenka" – 77; 77, Arthur Gerasimov. The People's Front is 56, everyone else is 0. I'll put the third time on the vote. If there are no votes, we go full reading. So, colleagues, the third time I'm going to put it to a vote, like all the other proposals. Once again, I put to the vote the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:44:46]] For-144 It's not a decision, colleagues. We're moving on to full reading. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u45	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The primary tasks of land reform are to deconcentrate the land administration system, to eliminate widespread corruption in this area and to strengthen the protection of the rights of owners and land users. This is what the Head of State has put in place and is defined as an urgent draft of the Law on the Promotion and Elimination of Small Farming and Deconcentration of Land Relations Powers. Regarding the content of the basic provisions of the bill. The bill proposes the transfer to the municipal property of the united territorial communities of suitable land areas, except those of vital importance to the State. These rights are acquired immediately after the law takes effect. The authority to direct other countries before the unification of the territorial communities is proposed to be transferred to the district government. The other one. In recent years the raiding of land and the property of agricultural enterprises has become dangerous. In most cases, raiding was done by changing the composition of members of the legal profession. To put an end to such crimes, the project proposed a series of effective legal safeguards. Third. Rural family farming is under unequal competitive conditions with other farmers and is mostly produced through informal implementation channels that do not provide for payment of the corresponding compulsory payments. In view of the project, it is proposed to extend the status of the producer of agricultural products to the appropriate farms and to include them in the fourth group of single tax payers, the group of benefits. Four. The efficiency of land use and land protection depends on the perfection of State control to detect and prevent land law violations. Thus, it is appropriate when such functions are performed by communities in places in the person of local governments. And only if the local communities do not take these powers will this temporarily be exercised by the district government. The ODA also has control over the legality of decision-making by the authorities without the possibility of repealing them. The decision of the authorities can only be overturned by a court, and this is provided for by law. In addition to this, the project also aims to address the problems of shadow land use, improve the arrangements for setting up and altering the boundaries of local communities, and regulate the use of land of former collective property. Thus, the implementation of this bill will strengthen the financial support of united territorial communities, optimize and deconcentrate state control over the use and protection of land, and preserve the protection of property rights. In view of the above, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt a bill with registration number 7363 based on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Now, according to the procedure, we have to ask the reporter a question. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Vote? And they'll say we're breaking the Rules. Please, Mr. Rybak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u47	Dear Mrs. Irina, please tell us whether this bill provides for the transfer of land beyond the populated areas only to the united territorial communities or to the rural, village councils that are now under way. Whose lands are now administered by the appropriate committees of district administrations and the State Department?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, since we started the process of decentralization in the 15th year, which envisions the creation of capable, efficient and economically independent united territorial communities, these lands will be passed on to the property of united territorial communities. In order for the process to take place smoothly as an incentive for further unification of the territorial communities, the bill proposes that land orders be given to the district authorities outside the localities themselves. What does this have to do with anything? From 2002 to 2013, district government administrations have already carried out orders to transfer land or use land for agricultural purposes outside the population. In 2013 it was passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u49	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u50	With regard to this law, all powers, in fact, were transferred by such lands to the State Department. Then came the following: the actual concentration of all powers took place: the authority, the control, the supervision and the system of managing this base and the introduction of all of these legislators. all these normative acts are already in place in lands that are leased or available. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u51	Thank you. Just so we can see. Please, Yvchenka. It's important. Please give me 30 seconds. Mrs. Irina, but I'm asking you to come in in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u52	It's impossible to get involved, it's a very big bill. Your attention, please. With this bill, we propose to give land to the united communities outside the populated areas, and to manage such lands we offer to the district authorities. There will be no conflict between united territorial communities and those who want to unite with the authorities, the authorities of the district government themselves, for one simple reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u53	Please, one minute, finish. Just, look, colleagues, we have three more alternative bills, and then we have to vote. I'm asking you to come in now in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u54	Because the decision to be able and able to unite future united territorial communities is made by the district government. It has already been supervised in accordance with article 16, paragraph 3, of the Law on Local Government Administrations. There is a point where they are controlled by especially valuable lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u55	Thank you. Time's up for questions. Please. Mrs. Irina, thank you and we can go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, three minutes for questioning. I'm watching. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you not to scream. We're going to the Rules. I'm asking the reporters to invest in your 1 minute. Now we've broken the rules. Five people were enrolled, and one person was asked questions. Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Please welcome the author of the alternative bill, Victor Halasyuk. Bill No. 7363-1. It's not the Halasyuk report, it's Oleg Lazko, the bill. Please, Mr. Baby. So I was told what Halasyuk was going to report. Please. And I'm asking you to invest in time-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Along with my colleague, Victor Halasyuk, and my faction colleagues, we registered an alternative bill before the President passed it. What does the President propose to do? Concentrate land management on district and district government administrations. We are definitely against this approach. Because when we talk about decentralization, then authority should be given to the united territorial communities. As it turns out, people unite, they are promised budget preferences, land support, and so on, and the head of the administration or the administrator of the land cadastre in Kiev decides a land in one village or another. Therefore, we have registered an alternative bill, which is proposed to delegate the power to manage the land of agricultural property outside the populated areas to the unified territorial communities as they are formed. This is fundamentally different from the President's proposal, which suggests that we actually go back to the legislation that worked until 1 January 2013 and transfer the right to manage such lands to the state governments that are under the authority of the President of Ukraine. Our bill proposes legalizing family farms by giving them the opportunity to pay the only fourth group tax, and for 10 years we propose to cut family farms the only social contribution. The first year is 10 percent of the minimum rate, next year an annual increase of 10 percent. And we're running a credit policy. Because when the authorities want to introduce the so-called land market today, and as a result, latifundists and transnational corporations will become owners of our land, because peasants will sell it for free. We suggest that agriculture, family farms, and singles be the foundation of Ukraine’s agricultural system. For Ukrainian peasants to feed the land. And this bill proposes to create the benefits of operating, working on family farms. Unlike the Presidential Bill, we leave a standard that directly exempts non-Socially Protected Types of Citizens: Disabled Persons, Multi-Children, Retirement, Chernobyl, Other Categories. Not as the President suggested, that these people prove their poverty to the state in exchange for the benefits. I met a former teacher from Kyiv County for days, 40 years of internship, 1 thousand 800 dollars of pension, and 10 years of can't get a piece of pie. And such former teachers, nurses, and other social workers are hundreds and hundreds of thousands. Raising bribes distribute land, and a teacher, a doctor, a nurse, a feldsher, a social worker of his little land assignment cannot receive corruption. Our bill proposes to solve this problem so that social workers in the countryside can get their land. The same is true of former radgos and agricultural researchers at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. There are two villages, in the region of Chernigiv, Mikolayevka, and Ivanovka. In one village there was a farm, in another village a research farm of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. The former servants of the land received, the workers of the research farm did not get the land, the people live nearby, in some lands there are, in others there is no land. Those who have no land have tears in their eyes. A woman comes up to me for 80 years and weeps with tears like this: "I've worked my whole life, I've scratched, just like my neighbor, she's got land, I don't have it. Where is justice?".. What can I say to this woman? What can we say to hundreds of thousands of such women and men who have worked hard, hard all their lives? The answer can be only one: to give them land to feed them and their grandchildren and their grandchildren. Not to despoil this land, as suggested by today’s authorities. Unlike the Presidential Bill, our bill of MPs of the Radical Party, the only ones who defend the interests of peasants, the interests of Ukrainians, we leave the standards for free privatization to citizens of land. The Presidential Bill proposes to reduce the land to be privatized from two to one hectare. In addition, in order to avoid abuse, our bill sets up a fuse, because there are good people coming to the village, local residents do not give land, some left passenger came, paid money, did not live in the village, two hectares of land received, an ATO participant, a veteran, other people living in the village, told them there is no land. What do we propose to do? To ensure that this land is not formed on a free basis, we suggest that it be granted the right to receive citizens who have lived for at least three years in the territory of the community rather than to be visited by dormant doves, toil the land, and to the local inhabitants without land. So, Jaroslav Moskalenko, is that how you do it in your district? So, I'd be a deputy in your district, I wouldn't be one. Next. But we'll help you. Our bill introduces a mechanism to preserve soil fertility, agrochemical passporting as an integral part of the lease, and damages to the landlord as a result of deterioration in soil fertility. We also offer to impose fines for not taking action against weeds, draining the land, and coming. What do the Latifunds want? They don't need a cow, they don't need a human, they don't need a land fertility, they need a quick profit from exhaustion, they need exploitation, they don't need rural exploitation, they need land, they need natural resources. Our team, which cares for Ukraine's future for thousands of years ahead, for the future of the Ukrainian nation, we offer responsibility for failing to maintain the land and for violating the fertility of the land. Ukrainian land should feed Ukrainians, not latifundists, and Ukrainians sit, waiting for taxes in the form of loans from the International Monetary Fund. We also, our team, through this bill, are generalizing the best practice in preventing raids, including preventing illegal land grabbing by companies. In particular, we propose to establish the obligation of notary certification of earth’s treaties. The story of the Dnipropetrov region, we were there with my fellow MPs. A farmer died, and it was not possible, as the people said, to cool his body, his wife, his sons had already learned that they were not farmers. Because of a notary in the Odessa region, he copied the raider land in the Dnipropetrovsk region at night. And the farming that this family had been creating for 20 years in one night proved that they were no longer masters. And people are fighting there, and they're coming at each other with pitchforks, with hair to keep up this farm. And when grandmothers sign a five - year lease, they put a couple in front and show up for 25 years with a man who took the land. Can anyone believe that a woman, at 80 years of age, signs a lease on land for 25 years? Of course, Grandma's been fooled, everyone's fooling our peasants, parasites, and we want them not to be cheated. So we suggest that all land leases be recorded on video. And to make this video an integral part of the notary. To see if there was this notary record, was there? Was this notary action or not? At first, people fake contracts, then grandmas, grandpas in the village are told to go to the district, judge, to the Supreme Court, condemn your land. You don't have money for gas. You don't have money for gas. Our proposals, the Radical Party teams, will protect farmers, protect peasants, including vineyard farmers, and all Ukrainian peasants from raiding the land. At last, our bill introduces the publication of the actions of the land manager during land administration, through the publication of the decision on the websites. So everyone knows where the land is given to. This is not the way a man has pursued a cow’s entire life in a pasture, and tomorrow it turns out that the land has been given to someone in secret. And finally, we're running free legal aid for farmers who own land. To protect them from raiding in order to protect their constitutional rights to rule the earth. I'm going to this room, do one good thing, support the Bill of Laska and the Radical Party for the protection of Ukrainian peasants, for the protection of Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u57	Mr. Easy, please come back to the rostrum. Ukrainian. That's the word you said, it's going to be "poopers," not "poopers." And now I'm asking the session room to write down for questions to the guest reporter, according to the regulations, three minutes to ask questions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u58	Oleg Valeriyovich, I fully share your position that you cannot delegate and re-address the right to manage the land or control the district and district administrations. They need to be eliminated as a class when OTG is created. Do you agree? And secondly, do we not need to give an order, if this decision is to be made in the first reading, I mean, a bill for the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare us with information on what is going on with the land and how many heads of district administrations have handed over this land in secret, signing appropriate orders. So if the people who work, the locals, on the ground, they pay 7-8 percent of the cost of the pie, and they set 3 percent, and I think they're covering these people. They're covering here in Kiev. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u59	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. It is difficult not to agree with the classic — with the originator of the famous Žitomirščina, in Žitomirščina, as in Ukraine, the villagers suffer from raiding, abuse of power. That's why our team insists that the public budget spends on land inventory so that we know how many unexploded rations, how much land there is. And so that there's publicity at the disposal of these lands so that everyone can go on the websites and read publicly. We published yesterday a public list of alimony payers, and we immediately learned that Chaplin is a national happiness fighter, a native child cannot feed or pay alimony. Those who don't pay alimony have to make mandates that you can do for people if you've abandoned your child? If you've been watching your wife and throwing her away and not feeding the baby? For those who do not pay alimony, it is the same for those who steal the land of the peasants to go away!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u61	Please ask the following question, National Deputy Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u62	Mr. Liege! I'm here! Please tell me you're about this close to this bill. Here it was from the reporter who reported it, yes. I'll tell you, if anyone reads and listens, they're going to fall, and they're going to offer the joint land owners territorial communities, and they're going to have the district administrations. They don't realize that only the owner can be the manager? Well, what is it? If it's allowed, it's for a session, don't you think we have a law clinic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u63	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u64	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, I fully agree with you that today's clinic is in law enforcement and clinic in power. But for the sake of justice, let's say that this clinic didn't start today. When you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich, were a member of the Constitutional Court, it was your Constitutional Court that, on the second term of Kuchma, decided that he was the first one, and allowed Kuchma to run for the third time. So in order to be objective, this clinic goes on for 26 years. We're going to stop it, we're going to make it orderly, and we're not going to be able to strip the earth. We want to put order in the earth so that this land belongs to Ukrainian peasants. That's why our team proposed changes to the Constitution. Too bad you're not in the Constitutional Court right now, I'm sure you'd support our changes, which predict that Ukraine's agricultural system is based on farming. And I'm talking to all the people's deputies: let's think about the future of the nation and the future of the state, and give the Ukrainian land to the Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u65	Thank you. Please go to your place of work. And, dear colleagues, I invite the author of the alternative bill 7363-2, Wadima Yvchenk, to present my version of this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u66	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, most of these bills have long been signed by people's deputies and land laws, they're signed by almost all factions and all, say, majority MPs. I want to remind you that you and I have created a system when we violate the Rules. Well, how can a bill be passed where the Budget Code, the Tax Code, and the Earth Code be passed in one bill? And that's what scientific expertise tells us. But in fact, our bill is an alternative. Colleagues, I want to say that Fatherland has already had laws for two years: 6490 (Timishenko, Kirilenko, Yvchenko and many other deputies), 7060 (amendments to the Earth Code) (Timishenko, Kirilenko, Yvchenko), 6369, 6370 ( Ivchenko), 4355 (Kulinich, Yvchenko, Bakumenko, and all members of the agar committee), 7118-1 (we are all with you). Colleagues, this means that today the right of the legislative initiative is somehow not respected by our Supreme Council. And one person is the President who can bring all of this together and submit it. But for now, what does the President propose? The president proposes that 62 percent of the land that today belongs to communities that are not united, I mean rural and rural councils, be handed over to district government administrations. What does the President propose? Today, the president is completely destroying the State’s soil protection system. Colleagues, you and I, in the 14th year, didn't give me the opportunity to ask questions, we completely canceled the salt inspection, where there was land inspection, where there was environmental inspection. These soil - protection and soil - quality responsibilities are not being fulfilled today. You and I put this into Bill 4355 by fully denouncing the state's functions and by attaching it to a government body that regulates land policy. What did the president do? The president suggested that an official be appointed to the district government, who would run and watch the land. Third. It enables one official to manage and use the land of state enterprises, enabling one official to manage and use the land without the agreement of the Academy of Sciences. Where do the letters come from, colleagues? There are letters from academics: Patton, Gadzalo, Cimbaluka, Kremenya, Petrisina, Cebikina - to the President of Ukraine. They've been using the land under the law for 15 years, and today it's impossible for one official to remove these lands, and then this official will pay for his favor to the Peter Prashenko Block in the district centers or in the areas. Colleagues, next. And now there's a hidden and corrupt norm. And you know that in tax matters, the reduced rate, the new methodology for the calculation of the payment of the only fourth group tax? And it's reduced. Reduced for agricultural enterprises from 0.95 to 0.2 coefficients. And do you know that these costs and this only tax go to local budgets? In fact, you have suggested that the local budgets, including those of the united territorial communities, be directly reduced. Colleagues, the bill submitted by the President, today needs substantial work. So far, we've offered an alternative. What I'm saying is that in budgetary matters, we've offered to pay the VAT on the place where the real estate is located, as well as taxes on the land of superficies, emphyteussis, which will also be paid for the location of the real estate. Colleagues, on tax matters. We are finally making a transformation and we are proposing that we voluntarily give the status of a manufacturer to those who want to register as a family farm. We're giving them social protection. Now these people will receive a pension, but the state will help them pay their only social contribution for 10 years. In fact, from the first day on, they will know that they are working. Colleagues, next. We offered state support, I said. And this state support will help these family farmers to pay a single social contribution to the relevant fiscal authorities for ten percent of the time. And they're going to have an easy accounting. Land issues. "Paternity proposes that the united territorial communities of the land be given over to ownership. Those communities that have not united give up the land and leave the state completely to control the soil protection function. But for the time being, decisions will be made by both united communities and by rural and rural councils. Colleagues, next. We invite executive committees in rural, rural councils within the united territorial communities to gain authority from the state registration of land and the acceptance of land records. Let's finish when the geocadastral agrees with this documentation. Next up, colleagues. We propose free privatization for the EAGF lands to leave exclusively to the citizens who have the right to do so. It's a social sphere, it's workers who worked in state-owned enterprises, and it's also our attaché soldiers. At the same time, we offer citizens who receive free private property of this land to exclude speculation. Which means if you've got the land, you can't sell it for seven years, work on it, otherwise seek compensation. We've offered our gunmen another mechanism: if you don't want to take the land and work on it, you have the right to get compensation not only for the land of the OSH, but also for the land that they're planting, for gardening and for individual construction. About "The Fatherland" counted it, it's almost 137 thousand dollars. Next up, colleagues. We're reducing the duration of the permit to develop the project by land administration to 10 working days instead of 1 month. Next up, colleagues. We're finally settling the issues of collective property. We're distributing land for unexploded SPCs into private and municipal property. And what's not going to be private is going directly to municipal property. We're giving them the opportunity before they're gutted, to give them to the communities, to be officially leased, and to fill in their own local budgets. Colleagues, we settle the issues of unexploded pies at last. And we give the rights to communities, too, until these pies are, let's say, registered to the right person, the communities will get the money from the official rent. The same with the land of the inheritance. Colleagues — nearly 600,000 acres [600,000 ha] of unexploded pies. Next. We suggest that land-use documentation expertise be completely excluded from the Earth Code. It will be approved by rural, village councils. And in general, colleagues, we have to make a profound transformation of the agricultural sector of the economy. We have to compare the level of agricultural production to the level and quality of agricultural life. Not to the wall of production, not to the number of lives, but to the way the peasants live. We offer a comprehensive new European agrarian policy, where we will be able not to seek out the world and invest, but with four and a half million single farms as a minimum in two years — a million family farms! Four million official farmers! And you tell me, please, give me an example of one country in the world where products such as cow and dairy equipment belong to one owner, and the result of this production – milk – belongs to another owner, one broker or a natural person. When are we finally going to make them produce quality products? So we can track this product? And when do we finally give them support? Let's make them tax changes. We've taken the first step, but we haven't made any tax changes with you. We accept the concept of creating cooperatives, but for the moment, cooperatives are VAT payers, and it's also not settled, and the government can't put money on cooperatives. We've, by the way, offered VAT exemption cooperatives, and it'll unlock the process of forming them. Please support a comprehensive bill, support the Fatherland Bill. We're currently working on and we're actually going to make a transformation, and in two years, you won't recognize the agricultural sector and even agricultural exports in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I ask you a question, I will make one appeal to the hall. Colleagues, we have the following day’s draft Law 7429 on mandatory government pension insurance. I was asked by the family of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 to adopt this law today. I understand the desire of some of my colleagues to delay the consideration of the bill. But there are, or there are, or there isn't, and stretching doesn't make any sense; we're breaking the order of the day. It is very important for us today to vote on the inclusion of the Anti-Corruption Court, and the Law on Support for the Families of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds. So I have a request to all the reporters who will be from the factions and from the deputies, whether there are votes or not. It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense, if anyone thinks so. I'm asking as much as possible for us to have a discussion and to succeed in this bill. You can specify, you can ask, many of you have contact with the families of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Make sure that I am telling the truth. But it's very desirable today. And he's asking the head of the committee, Ludmila Denisov, to be considered today, by February 18th, it's very important. I'm asking everyone and calling for flexibility during the discussion. And now I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u68	First question, please, from the national deputy of Moseschuk. Colleagues, please sit down because you can't see who's asking the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u69	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I have a question for you, Mr. Vadim. Here's an example. There is my homeland, the Luben district of Poltava. There is a Zasul territorial community that covers almost 50 percent of the area. And there's a district government. The Presidential Bill, to which you now present an alternative, foresees that the land will be owned by the territorial community and the administration will be the administrator. I have a question: how many officials do we need to cut from the administration first, if 50 percent of the people have joined the community? That's the first one. And the second. Well, let's say we leave the principal to the administration that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u70	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u71	I thank you for asking. And by the way, I'm going to say that from the very beginning, when "The Fatherland" came into Parliament, we suggested that we hand over the land to the territorial communities. And these were our first drafts. And today we invite the united communities to take ownership, and those who have not united are invited to make decisions at the hands of the village and village councils, that is, the sessions of the appropriate councils. I will tell you right now that the situation with the united territorial communities has now gone beyond the Constitution. We don't have a unified territorial community in the administrative system. This is a problem, and it will be a problem that you and I will have to solve in the future. But to be honest, if the boundaries of the area are to be reduced by means of a united territorial community, of course, these united territorial communities should have appropriate executive committees with the relevant departments, with appropriate administrations that will function, make plans for the planning of the territories and work for the development of the territory. Of course, district government administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u73	Of course, the district government officials of these administrations have to cut back. But look what the President is offering us. The president proposes that the district authorities be given land administrations. Please tell me, would they be interested in unifying in their areas if they had land? Well, I guess not. This is not an incentive. They will be interested in managing the lands. It's such a mentality on the spot. So it's not an incentive. And I'm asking you not to lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u74	Thank you. Please have a question from the national MP of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u75	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Is there a bill? Because I believe that, indeed, the land outside the populated areas should be managed by united communities, rural, village councils, and, above all, by those who have been assigned and who have worked on these lands. Because we know very well that they're decomposing and even betraying, giving these lands to people who didn't work there at all, and they don't know where these villages are. That's what I'm counting on is that these lands should be managed only by those who are assigned, those who worked there on these lands and those who are really rural, territorial communities, village sessions of rural councils, because that's fair. And they will control that these very lands will be given to those who worked on them. This is question number one, as your bill has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u76	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u77	I thank you for asking. And I'm going to say that any orbit of the earth is going to take place with a village-storage model. Not speculators, not prosecutors, not judges, not deputies, should come to earth. A farm, a family farm, a business, and a real job are expected to come to the land. It is the possibility of providing land for rural and rural councils and allowing them to engage the host they see, the host who creates businesses in its territory. Those singles who want to expand, those enterprises that want to get land to build suitable shelters, supply points or grain stores, and so on, the appropriate infrastructure objects in the area, are more visible to them. And let's finally stop speculating. Let us vote today and give a signal to everyone: we have handed over the land to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u78	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u79	The responsible authorities of the local self - government that this nation has chosen. And let's please vote today for the "Paternity" Bill 7363-2, which is the most complex, the most professional, and which is less in need of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I invite the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, Nina Yuzanin, to present the position of the profile committee of all three bills that we have heard. Then let's move on to the discussion. And asking us to move dynamically so that we can still consider the key bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u81	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On December 20, 2017, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts on the promotion of the creation and activities of small farms and the deconcentration of powers in the field of land relations (registration number 7363), submitted by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, and an alternative bill on amendments to the Tax Code (registration number 7363-1) of 18.12., submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Ljashko and others, at the time alternative 7363-2, was not registered. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee during the discussion of section I of draft Law 7363, expressed their support for the proposals offered. What is really envisaged, and what changes are envisaged in draft Law 7363? I would like everyone's attention, because I'm going to talk right now about the same standards that alternative bills provide for in order for you to really have the true imagination of the Bill 7363. In fact, we've been working on a few years of proposals by national deputies for the possibility of family farm registration by single-tax taxpayers. There's always been a complication of which system is possible for them, because when they become a single tax payer, such farms would have to pay the minimum social contribution to the pension system. That is why, taking into account all the wishes and perceptions that it is possible to allow farmers to implement their activities smoothly, it was suggested that in the fourth group the possibility of registering a natural person – an entrepreneur with a single tax to define a new system for determining the tax. But in order to talk about how a tax should be determined, we need to raise the second problem ingredient. At the time, the national MPs, who were talking about reducing the sole tax for legal persons here, were absolutely lying. Because they know that the biggest problem in the village is that the rate that is currently in place for payers of the only group IV tax is 0.95 per cent of the two components: 0.75 per cent of the regulatory and monetary valuation that goes into the local budgets and 0.2 percent of the normative and monetary valuation that goes into the state budget. Thus, the local authorities were never interested in setting the right taxes on land. And everyone here is talking to me about what's proposed in the Presidential Bill, how to stimulate and manage land affairs is the most important. One that's acceptable on the spot. So we're saying that now, to determine the single tax rate, the next system is the land tax rate that is determined by the local authorities for all. For individuals, for those who own the earth, for those who rent the land. And plus 0.2 percent of the country's monetary valuation that goes into the state budget is the fairest approach to keeping 60 percent of the land out of the shadows. In order to avoid the use of a direct norm of the Tax Code, which provides for exemption from the payment of taxes for certain categories of natural persons. You see, these people, of course, are the ones who need such help, and the local authorities will just identify them and provide the same benefits that were granted at the state level. But there are people who rent this land and rent nothing, not this person, but the renter, who doesn't pay. We have to worry about the common people, don't we? Yes, because of such overwhelming preferences, we had previously granted benefits to a tenant who had not paid. And now we say, literally, all of the land. The payment of all taxes on all types of land will be under the control of local authorities. Indeed, we give them far too much authority, but without it we can't do it, because you and I are here from this high place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. 30 seconds I'll let you finish so that we can vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u83	We see the condition of each family in the yard and the use of pies of land. That is why this right has been granted to local communities, and it is the social security that provides for the Presidential Bill. Other bills have reiterated in this part of the proposal, which is based on the fact that for 10 years the State is gradually covering the amount of the mandatory contribution to encourage people to receive the social security that guarantees them to receive pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u84	Thank you. The committee's decision, 15 seconds, we won't make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, given what I have said, I would, of course, like to stop on other issues, but the committee’s decision was as follows. We discussed all these issues in detail at the committee meeting, but the members of the committee, according to a discussion on Bill 7363's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u87	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the basis of 7363. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u88	Thank you. Colleagues, we're continuing our session for 15 minutes. And in order for us to make it, thank you, Mrs. Nina! – to vote on this bill, ask the factions to sign up for two minutes from the factions, and then the national MPs. Please, Igor Lucenko, two minutes. Who? Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u89	Dear friends! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. What is the point of our proposal? We want for the first time, perhaps throughout history, to move away from the fragmentation of the key problem for Ukraine: the development of agriculture as a huge swath of society, the development of the rural network, and then the development of the agricultural sphere. For the first time in many years, and this is a mistake of previous generations, man stands ahead, and money, tons, kilometers, pendants, hectares and so on, and so on. It was always the other way around. So when we speak not for one law, but for a few laws, we speak for cleaning up fragmentation and for a complex approach. So the first step to meeting people is the person in charge of our laws. The second step is what should be the arrangement for peasants in the countryside. And we answer: the farm system, and the foundation of the farm system is the peasant family farm. In the world, 2.5 billion hectares [2.5 billion hectares] of land are processed by 570 million farmers, 500 million of whom are a family farm, divide 2.5 billion by 500 million to 5 hectares per brother. The busy billions of people, the civilized world solves the main problem of employment. We had 5.5 million people in the village 15 years ago, 500 thousand today. Where are the others? The answer was here in the hall. Next step. Friends, it is not just the registration as a host subject but that the subject is given the opportunity to work. We're talking about a loan at a government village bank of 2 percent a year, there shouldn't be money in the population. Why do we give $5 billion as a grant? But let's create a peasant bank and, by 2 percent, we'll credit the family farm with government funds. The next step is to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, I can't. 30 seconds, please. Well, you're going to have a performance, you're going to write it down, you're still going to have eight minutes to perform. I don't have them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u91	Well, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u92	30 seconds. I'm asking you to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u93	Respectful colleagues, the next step, will certainly involve organic cooperation of effort, cooperation on production, and implementation. And of course, by cooperation, processing is inevitable, processing organic products is the way out. Here's our steps to meet people, this is in our bills -- we're cleaning up fragmentation. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, from the Rebirth Party, the People's Deputy of Ostapchuk gives Kulinic the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, I raised the issue of land decentralization in Parliament in the past, but unfortunately it was not possible to resolve it then. There are so many drafts on this subject in the Council today. On my initiative alone, more than six drafts were registered with the members of the Agrarian Committee. For example, Bill 4355, voted in the first reading in the committee’s second reading, has not been voted in the session room for a year and a half. There is now a presidential bill, where most of this bill is the work of members of the agrarian committee. This means that the committee did its job well and did its job. Any bill on this subject can be voted on, they're perfectly normal. The questions in just two things are who will be the steward of the land of those communities that have not united; and who will exercise control over the protection and use of land. To date, the government has begun the process of transferring land to united territorial communities, but in my opinion and our faction, this is not enough. Without legislative changes, the community will not become fully masters of its land, and they will not be able, for example, to approve the legal and monetary valuation of the land, and that is their money. Without legislative changes, we can't solve the issue of collective property, like we have 1.5 million hectares, and they're just stuck in the air. And these lands are waiting for communities. While we're discussing this issue for the fourth year, the village heads are asking, "How long are you going to discuss this? The earth is no longer free!" We have set up huge funds to support agriculture and animal production. So we've got no cows to feed, we've got no hay to prepare, because all the haystacks and pastures are ruined and passed on for decades. That is why the matter needs to be resolved immediately. I propose to support any bill on this issue, but we must move. Because if we don't solve it, we're just going to be ashamed to look at local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u96	Thank you for your time. Please, from the Peter Prashenko Block, National Deputy Bakumenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u97	Dear friends, I'm a few words under the bill. This is a very important bill that deals with both land and taxation. Most importantly, there have been so many expressions here, but very dishonest, let's say. First of all, in the Presidential Bill, land outside the territories is passed on to the united territorial communities. That's one, that's the main thing. When a part of the land that is not yet united by the territorial communities remains available, it is temporarily administered by the district administration. This moves the center from Kiev to the local level as before. This is the first time. The second thing is important. The bill deals with collective property issues. Up to one and a half million acres [1.5 million ha] of land has not been solved to date. We add authority to this bill, the President, to the local communities, which will also address the issue of land of oversight, including harassment, other issues that are being referred to local communities. We will enable united territorial communities to continue to unite, give the earth as a resource, for it will continue to have the potential to unite and have the power of state land. And there's one more thing. On the agrarian committee on January 19, we discussed the issue and supported Presidential Bill 7363. It's an agrarian committee decision. Please, please, back him up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u98	I'm asking you not to interrupt each other. It's just not right, you're performing, you're breaking it, using the second row, it's convenient to interrupt the rostrum. No one does that. He represented the faction's position. Please, the Burbak People’s Deputy passes the word to Germany. Please, Mr. Leonid. Well, really, let the factions do the speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u99	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Look, the People's Front would give each of us a vote for small farming in our country. And the People's Front strongly supports the idea of decentralization. That is why we would be delighted to vote in favour of the proposed bill. The only request. There is a position that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And let me even quote that there is no doubt about the conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority, the scientific expertise of our Ukrainian Parliament. These are the lawyers who are reviewing the bills, including their Ukrainian Constitution. So they point out that according to article 13 of our Constitution, as well as articles 142 and 143, the authorities of local self-government cannot manage property that does not belong to them. Well, he just can't. That's why there is a rule in this bill that, according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, we agree with it, because the text of the Constitution confirms this position, which contradicts, this position of the text of the law of the Constitution. And that's why we can't support this bill right now. And we ask you very much to do everything possible to avoid being inconsistent with the Constitution. And after that, our votes for decentralization, our votes for the development of small farming, will definitely go to this parliament for support. And the request is not to forget that after this law, and not to depart, we have a bill on an anti-corruption court. Dear colleagues, we're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u100	Thank you. Next statement, please, from the Opposition Block, Germany, National MP, from the spot. Germany, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, first of all, with regard to all the bills that have been tabled there, have forgotten the Constitution at all. What Articles 13 and 14 indicate in the Constitution. uses the word "richness" once, that the earth is the national wealth of the Ukrainian people. Where are the people in your bills? Are you looking through the administrations for land to debasing or through bulk sales? That's the question. The second question. If we talk about how to regulate the earth, we see a political crash. And you've heard today that even the President is being approached by some. Look, for two years, the concept of how to settle land issues is being considered in the Supreme Council. From here, the representatives of Yulia Timoshenko, the representatives of the radicals, are already quoted. Look, these are the quotations that are at the disposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But this bill was forgotten by everyone. Next. Who knows that the great fairways of corruption themselves are the distribution of land and budgetary allocations. Where do you describe the relationship to conflicts of interest? There's no law on this. And the last. I want to tell you that today, of those nearly 42 million countries of the Blacklands, there are fewer. More or less than 40. Where's 2? Where are 2 million hectares? Are they cheating on the wetlands? No, they're not cheating, they're gone. And imagine, these are the black countries in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u102	Thank you. Please give the next speech to the national deputy of the Radical Party, Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u103	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support the alternative bill 7363-1, prepared by our team, as the most professional, most unifying and one that is best suited to the interests of Ukrainian farmers and peasants. In addition, I would like to stress that a comprehensive approach is needed to the development of the Ukrainian village and to the development of the agricultural sphere. That is why Oleg Lášk and more than 170 people's deputies proposed a draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that agriculture should be the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. And I'm separately addressing our colleagues from Fatherland who just said they're supporting this position. Please join this legislative initiative and vote for it on the committee. Let's go through this historic bill, which once and for all will establish that the Ukrainian farmers are the Ukrainian farmer who lives on it, who processes it. In addition, we call for immediate consideration and support in the Parliamentary Hall of Bills 6527 and 6587 on the development of Ukrainian agriculture and cooperation in rural areas. They are fundamental, vital to allow real opportunities for Ukrainian peasants not to export raw materials or sell three copies to latifundists, but to produce ready-made products. In addition, it is urgent to adopt the Industrial Parks Act, which is supported by even the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Because it will allow you to create a powerful agro-processing in the country, to trade, not raw materials, but products that are ready for food, which are more expensive than raw materials. There is nothing to be proud of to export grains of another raw material, and we should be proud of the export of finished products. This will bring wealth to the Ukrainian village and Ukraine as a whole. Support this complex approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u104	Please, from the Self-Help faction, National Deputy Leonid Zubac. Please. I'm sorry, Lubomir Zubac. I'm sorry, Mr. Lubomir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, February 5, 3 years after the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Today more than 600 united communities are formed. In fact, people believed in the law that was passed and united. But has the state in the person of the central authorities fulfilled its obligations to the communities prior to local self - government? Central authorities promised to transfer money and transfer resources. The most important resource for rural areas is, of course, the earth. Until now, united territorial communities have been unable to manage their land resources. What's going on now? There is a presidential bill, which has a comparative table of about 300 pages. Although Law 4355 has already been adopted in the first reading, it is enough to simply issue, vote, and land will be given not only to united communities but also to communities that have not united, to manage the land outside the settlements. It seems that laws are deliberately being passed to prevent this issue from being resolved. Literally two months ago, the Prime Minister passed a bill of government, now the President. You know, it's like this, it's like, "Patriot games," they want to show who likes united territorial communities more and who needs to be given these powers. I think it's cynicism to manipulate such a sensitive issue as the earth and actually not to aim at solving these issues. For those of us who do not know, not only has the land not yet been settled outside the populated areas, but the district administrations of today have actively begun to manage the land within the populated areas. Let me give you an example, for example, in the Lviv district of the district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u106	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u107	She made seven decisions, where tens of hectares of land was passed over to the settlements. So what do we suggest? First. United territorial communities should receive not only ownership of the land but also the right to order, no RDA. Likewise, Self-Help believes that rural, village councils should be given the right to manage the land outside populated areas or to agree to orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u108	And a closing statement from the factions, Vladimir Litwin. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the discussion of this matter is taking place late, and the delay has been made consciously. Why? Because especially in the recent period, as people tell me, the heads of district administrations have been given instructions on how much land to accumulate and sign orders to pass on to persons, surnames, and documents to which they will be presented. In particular, the Novograd Wallin region of the Žitomir region of several thousand hectares of land has been handed over to no one by cutting down the heads of the district government, the land of common property, the land of unspoiled land. Why don't you think about it? – if local people work on this land and pay 7-8 per cent of the value of the pie, they gave the world 3 per cent. And now they're trying to make the district government administrators of the land. The question is, Why? First, to control, to take care of the land. The second is to cover these devices. Therefore, a simple law must be adopted that can be understood and read by everyone. To transfer land to rural councils and to communities where there is a united territorial community. And then we'll continue to figure it out. And the second is to do land inventory and all that's illegal to bring back. Because we're having a big affair with the land, chemistry -- stolen, metallurgy -- is being stolen, the last fortune is being stolen -- the land. So I don't think it's going to be a decision that I'm going to make today, but we have bills that have already been read first. Why don't they? This confirms just what I said, we need a simple and clear law for people, and we need to get the land back to people. I would ask you, your honor, not to take part in this fornication.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you to listen to me carefully, 17:53. We have a very important Law: About the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Colleagues, and I really, and I don't want us to vote today because of bureaucratic procedures, it's going to be wrong, in the hall full of people and we're in full mobilization, ready. So, colleagues, I'm asking you very much right now, I'm going to give you three deputies a minute from the National MPs. Voting, Anti-Corruption Court, and then... I think everyone understands this responsibility. And I'm asking you, colleagues, for the moment, for the national MPs, to hold the recording: three speeches from the national MPs, per minute. Please hold the recording. And I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Lensky gives the word. So there will be three speeches: Lenski and Kirichenko are being handed over to Lashkov and Danilin from the Burbak People's Front. So two minutes is Light, one minute is Burbak, and we're going to vote. Three minutes to vote, colleagues. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u111	There is always discussion, perhaps the hottest, when the issue of the earth is discussed in Parliament. Why? Because every single one of us who isn't a fan of the free market or of the colporteurs or of the cooperatives or of the farm, but each one of us realizes that the earth is the wealth that can feed the Ukrainian nation that can feed the Ukrainian people. Because the United Nations forecasts that by the end of the century 28 million Ukrainians will remain in the country, 55 percent of young people want to leave Ukraine because they do not see their abilities realized because of low incomes, low wages. What should we do? A radical change in economic policy, agrarian exports, agrarian structures in our exports is an extremely important component. But what are we trading today? Raw materials: 60 million tons of grains were collected, more than forty million tons of grain sold abroad. And then we're proud that the biggest grain exporters. Not that we should be proud of! The product is sold, farmed in the country, so that it is not sold with grain, but with pasta, flour, meat - milk products, and so forth. We have a government commitment: it refuses to buy milk into peasants by referring to non-quality milk to cut cows in the village, in order to then import Polish and any other milk. Instead of trading your milk and your food. And the main thing is jobs for our people. Where are we going? Okay, you want to tear the earth apart, but we're not gonna give it to you. How will they feed their families, how will they earn money? So the Radical Party team offers a very clear plan: rural jobs, farm support, state subsidies, restoration of livestock in every rural courtyard -- both pigs, geese, and pigs, and chickens, and the main thing is to make people happy -- that's our policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u112	Thank you. Final statement, the vote will take place in a minute. Mr. Maxime, this is a big request: as concise as possible. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, three bills are three different visions of what needs to be done. Finally, to transfer land to the united territorial communities that have dared to unite, they have taken this first step and continue to reform the decentralization of power in the country. I would also like to point out that we welcome the decision of the coalition government, Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, which, by the last decisions of Kabmin, has introduced a procedure for the transfer of land outside the settlements of the united territorial communities, which will further provide an incentive for unification and this reform will be implemented. I don't want to repeat the situation that I have in the 204th constituency, where the head of the Bespicup and the head of the Cossack District Council are going to be looting the entire area, and now they're going to have an additional mechanism of intervention in community reunification. So I think that in the first reading, we can vote, and in the second, we can actually work out, take into account the opinion of the coalition government, and then this initiative will find almost 300 votes in this room. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u114	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm going to put in turn all the draft laws that are proposed. I would like to emphasize that the committee proposes 7363 (base) as a basis. Please take up your jobs. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the creation and operation of small farms and the deconcentration of land-related powers (7363). Please be supportive. Please vote. Based on the base. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[17:59:58]] For-161 I'm betting on a vote of 7363-1. The committee didn't support him, he only supported 7363. Please vote. [[18:00:25]] For-98 And the next one, 7363-2. Please determine by vote. [[18:00:49]] For 105 So my colleagues, Base 7363, gained the largest number of votes. And now I'm going to put it back, colleagues. Please mobilize. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 7363. Please vote, vote. [[18:01:22]] For 172 One more time, okay. I'll put it again, we're out of time. I propose once again to return to draft Law 7363. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:01:50]] For 172 Guys, we didn't make it. I'll bet the last third time. Yes, then move to another location if you don't have a job. Colleagues, I hear your voices and I beg you now, you can move elsewhere. But I also want to point out that there are a few dozen votes missing. Now I'm going to suggest, if it doesn't work out, that we at least give the committee a second reading. But now I'm going to put it back again. Get ready, please. I propose to return to draft Law 7363. Vote carefully. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:02:59]] For-179 Colleagues, I ask you to return to the committee for further work. I'll put the base first, then the three. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote in favour of returning to the committee for further processing 7363. Please vote, please support. To the committee for re-reading. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:03:36]] For 175 I now propose that all three: 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2 return to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a re-reading committee. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please support, colleagues, this is a common position so we don't lose the bill. This is a common agreed position, please support. [[18:04:10]] For 223 Once again, colleagues, mobilize, colleagues. Let's do it. We've been working for an hour. I'm asking you to mobilize. All three bills: 63, 63-1 and -2 to the committee for re-reading. Don't go in the hall. Take your seats. And please support and vote, colleagues. Please vote on the committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[18:04:53]] For 199 Colleagues, what if he's in the agrarian? Arthur, can you support the agrarian? Let's go to the agrarian committee. No, right? Colleagues, colleagues, let's not make such decisions right now. Colleagues, pay attention! We're done here. Once again, I ask you to support the committee for a second reading. I ask you to support, colleagues, 7363, 7363-1 and 7363-2 to the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support. To the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please vote. [[18:05:50]] For-198 Give me some advice. Colleagues, advice on what to do? Please. Jujanina, 1 minute. Please. Jujanina, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u115	Colleagues, we've just heard a lot of lies in the presentation of all the bills. I ask you to refer to the committee for re-reading to all the authors who have worked on these bills. You know, in the tax area, it's the most necessary and important thing we can do for small farmers right now. In part of the deconcentration of the earth, we will all gather together and find a compromise solution. I thought we'd find this compromise decision between the first and the second readings. You didn't have the will. Let's go over the first reading again, and in the deconcentration part, we'll find a compromise on our committee. I'm asking you to back up first and transfer it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u116	Colleagues, we've been talking for an hour. Okay, in a minute. I'll give the factions a minute. From the People's Front, Ivanchuk, then Easy, then Yvchenko. Please, Ivanchuk, then Hurry. Please, in a minute. Colleagues, just don’t take all the time, just tell us how we can be in this situation. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u117	The People's Front supports all three bills. And since they are not accepted by Parliament, we ask all factions to vote and send it to the committee so that the committee can work on a common quality document that can be supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u118	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u119	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to my colleagues from Homeland and Self-Help. Dear comrades, dear friends! Because of ambition, we may lose the opportunity to make life easier for the peasants. I'm sure because it's tax legislation, in order to make it easier to support farmers, we can look at it on the tax committee. For us, what's the key, "saws or go"? We offer to "go" and support the peasants, and create conditions for the development of farms. And now, with your ambitions, you will overthrow the law and once again the peasants will remain "in a broken trough." We support, we vote, we send for work and we make one out of the three bills, we bring it out for the next plenary week, and we finally give our peasants the opportunity to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u120	Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u121	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, here's a bill made up of two parts: a tax section that didn't raise any questions in the hall, no questions about where we're doing the transformation and where we're doing the family farms, and a clear tax field for cooperatives. Where did the questions come from? Questions arose from the Codex earth. Does the Tax Committee regulate the Earth Code? Today, the specialized laws are prepared by the agrarian committee 4355, 7118-1, based on them, and all these bills are made. We want to work out and bring out a concept where OTG will be committed to land ownership, the regulations will be given to land of rural, rural councils, and the state will monitor soil quality protection. We suggest that we translate this into an agrarian committee and take into account all the land proposals that have been made in our room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u122	Hurry up, one minute. I'm in a hurry. It says "no card in the remote."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u123	Comrades, good afternoon! The regulation tells us that the bill that we have considered is rejected. One bill cannot be considered: changes to the Tax Code, changes to the Budget, changes to the Civil Code, notary legislation, and dozens of other laws. They will be introduced as separate legislative initiatives and will be considered by the Hall. But we're the only ones in one -- we're the only ones who want to give the land to local communities. Everyone supported this idea. The agrarian committee had come up with bill 4355, which specifically referred to the transfer of land to the communities. So if we want to transfer the land, please vote now for inclusion in the agenda and we vote on this bill, and we hand the land over to the communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u124	Kulinich, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u125	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues, I want to support my colleagues' opinion. We actually have a bill of 4355 for a year and a half that went through the agrarian committee, it went through the first reading in the hall, the second reading in the committee, it's completely ready to vote, it's balanced, it's supported by all the factions. If we can't find a common solution, let's put it in the agenda and vote and move on this issue and pass it on to the local communities, rather than making this topic go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u126	Shufrich, one minute. Shufrich, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, please! Storm! Excuse me! Storm, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u127	I'm sorry, Mr. Stepanenko, but I did. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Parish! I'm Schurmah, not Schurfrich. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u128	You wanted to make a joke, but you didn't make it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u129	We have everyone in this room talking for people, but when you listen, every vote you see, people in this room have the same result as when they vote for medical reform. Dear colleagues, did not fate teach you? In violation of the Rules, all of these laws do not work. Remember how "through the knee" tilted everyone to vote for the medi-reform. What's the result? You don't know how to turn now. Today there is the Law of the Rules. That's enough trampling on the Law of the Rules. Not voted: register new ones in a new session and let us vote by law. You only turn to the Rules when your personal interests go out of hand. Act by law and then order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u130	Irina Lucenko, one minute and then we move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, we will, after this discussion, take the child out of the bowl that we have been waving for so long. I ask you very much, there are no people here who did not want to give the land to the united territorial communities to the property they can manage, live, invest. I'm asking you very much, let's get together and all of us together on the same idea: it's a complex issue. I propose that these three drafts be sent for first reading to the Southern Committee, that a working group of two committees be set up there, that experts present here, from the Agrarian Committee, and that they be brought together to compromise. Believe me, this is a question of our responsibility. Besides us, no one's gonna solve this right now. There are no indifferent people here. I'm asking you very much, it won't be a big deal if we create such a joint working group of these two committees. Let's send, there's very good in every law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m1.u132	Thank you. Colleagues, we've got one minute. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, we've been discussing the bill for an hour and a half, and now one vote to go back to the committee for the first time again. I'm begging you, colleagues. I'll have to reject the bill otherwise. I ask you all to unite, this is a wise offer. I ask you all to unite, colleagues. So the first vote is to go back to the proposal for a re-reading committee. We should. We should do it by the book. All right, let's vote, colleagues. Please support the return. Colleagues, please support. Please, all of you, stand by, each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[18:14:58]] For 212 Is that a definite position? It's just a comeback. I'll put it again, colleagues, back to voting Bill 7363. Please vote, please support. Please vote for the return. And then I'm going to put it on the committee, and then I'm going to put it on the committee for work. [[18:15:30]] For 205 On board 18:15. Bills 7363, 63-1, 63-2 were rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
