ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone please come into the hall and check in. Ready? So, your honor, I'd like you to conduct the registration. Please take part in the registration. [[10:03:13]] 356 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to remind you that on Tuesday, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I emphasize factions and groups. And so please prepare all factions and groups for recording. And I'd like you to record for the performances. Please. From the Opposition Block to the word, Wilkul is invited from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u2	The people of Ukraine, before the parliamentary elections for almost a year and a half, to the presidential elections, a little over six months. It is now clear that the authorities are developing forging schemes for the election. She has no other way out; the Ukrainians do not hide their negative attitude toward the real power and the ruin that she has led us into. Never before in the history of modern Ukraine has the level of frustration in power been so great. I'll say more, people see it's not just a crisis anymore, it's a catastrophic threat to statehood and it requires immediate change. There are three parts of the cynical plan to preserve the current regime and to continue those anti-human social experiments that have been going on for the last four years. First. Make it as confusing as possible to send out candidates and hold elections. To this end, the adoption of new electoral legislation on open ballots is delayed. The goal is to preserve the Greek, demeanor bribes, and preserve the operating system. Second item. It's creating an obedient C.V.C.C. that will close your eyes to massive falsifications and abuse. And the best confirmation that the only real opposition in our Parliament is the faction of the Opposition Block, is that only the representatives of our faction and our party are not included in the new composition of the CIA. The third point. Cut off the electoral process of 1.5 million Ukrainian citizens who do not exactly support the policy of effective power. It's about forced settlers from Donbas and Crimea. We have drafted Bill 4471, which guarantees the implementation of the electoral right of internally displaced persons, but is not considered since April. I would like to highlight, from April of the past year. I have many meetings in different regions of our country, and I see people waiting for elections, because the desire for a peaceful and legitimate way to change the situation for the better in our country is what our people want. At the same time, Bill 8362, which should be paid to miners in government mines, was not even brought to the fore. 80,000 miners won't get their wages. But the time of destructive social experiments is coming to an end. Most citizens want to give an adequate assessment of the criminal policy of today’s authorities. And another goal in power is to save yourself, to show that it is not up to millions of citizens that their voice and their political choices are incapable of changing the situation. But that's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u3	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u4	Another goal is to preserve yourself, to show that millions of citizens do not depend on their voice and political choice to change the situation. But that's not true, we're millions, and we're going to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u5	From the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u6	Congratulations, fellows! "The People's Front has been calling for a third year to adopt the text of the new Constitution. We're not talking about minor changes, we're talking about a whole document that meets the current challenges facing our nation. First of all, it is to do the will of the Ukrainian people: to consolidate the Constitution's goal of membership in NATO and the European Union. In addition, the leader of the People's Front, Arsenija Yatzenuk, as the initiator of these changes, has made a proposal of constitutional money that will finally allow for a clear distribution of the powers of central authorities and increase the efficiency of government in Ukraine. I appeal to all democratic forces in Parliament: join in a specific debate on constitutional change. We're in favour of a transparent process of discussion, the People's Front proposes not only to introduce Euro-Atlantic clarity into the Constitution, but also to introduce a real system of deterrence and opposition in power. The People's Front faction has initiated a collection of 150 signatures for the people's deputies to amend the Constitution. Members of our faction have already signed these signed letters, we call upon all national MPs, join this initiative, and we begin a public and transparent discussion of changes to the current constitution. The People's Front also consistently advocates legislative and organizational changes that will protect Ukraine's information space, both from Putin's propagandists and from monopolization and censorship. Among them are bills on transparency of media property, projects on establishing criminal responsibility for denying Russian aggression, on postal delivery of Ukrainian printed editions. We insist on reviewing these bills as soon as possible. Now, about the Ukrainian Kremlin hostages. We must liberate Ukrainian citizens from the Russian cataclysm without giving in to Ukraine’s independence. Putin trades cynically with kidnapped Ukrainians to force us to compromise. The main tools for freeing Ukrainian hostages are economic and international legal pressure on Russia, and the whole world must join. To discuss the prospects of pardon and, in general, the legal essence of the charges against Ukrainian hostages is to justify their kidnapping. We should not get involved in the roadside game of showing trials over Ukrainians. There is no law, no justice, no president, no legitimate parliament in Russia. Next. The government has taken a decision and is introducing a bill to the Supreme Council that criminalizes smuggling. The People's Front calls on Parliament to support the initiative of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov, because by stopping smuggling schemes, there will be between 70 billion and 100 billion dollars, or 4 billion dollars, that is, the construction of infrastructure, that is, increasing social assistance for our citizens. And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u8	The Supreme Council recently passed the Ukrainian National Security Act. This is the next step in Euro-Atlantic integration, and we are waiting for this law to take effect before the NATO summit. The NATO summit is also an opportunity to inform our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u9	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u10	It is also an opportunity to convey to our allies the clear, consistent position of Ukraine on war and the peace process. Sanctions against Russia must be strengthened and expanded. Ukraine needs adequate financial assistance and an increase in the supply of air weapons. On this issue, the President, the Supreme Council, must be principled and firm, and then the whole world will listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Alexander Danchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, good morning! Yesterday, a digital economy was identified at a meeting with the EU ambassadors as one of the main tasks and directions of interaction with the EU. It was the self-help faction four years ago that was the first and only one to go to the elections with this idea of developing a digital economy or knowledge economy. We were the first to talk about moving away from the raw economy and moving on to the knowledge economy. What do we have today? Parliament voted on the Cyber Security Act, Parliament voted on the Law on Electronic and Trust Services, access to Internet infrastructure. Thank you all, thank you for supporting the speaker of our Parliament. But what do we have today? The digital economy and digitisation itself remain 10 years ago precisely because there are no digital solutions and no electronic documentation in Parliament, an article on the Anti-Corruption Court has been falsified. Because if there was digitization, there was no way to falsify it. We demand that this week we vote on the amendment to this article. We're talking about customs corruption right now, we're talking about corruption in different, in the DFS, it's all resolved, sorry, it's not a police, it's not an additional criminal responsibility that's only in Russia, in Belarus, it's decided by the introduction of digital technologies. And you can do that in two or three months by our Ukrainian IT specialists, who are now working in the West, all the extra revenue remains in the West. And they can do a lot and bring at least 25 to 30 billion dollars a year to Ukraine's budget without a single deposit, without any negotiations with the IMF. That's what we have to do. The Self-Help faction insists on the introduction of a digital economy in Ukraine. We insist that this week the falsified article on an anticorruption court be corrected. We demand that digital technologies be introduced at the customs office, not police, and then in this country we get profit, we get development. That's when, because of the digital economy, the digitalization of our people -- IT specialists, engineers -- will not go to Poland, they won't go to Germany, they'll work here, they'll create additional jobs, they'll create benefits for this state. That's why we require the government to implement all the initiatives that the Supreme Council has already voted, namely the e-trust bill, the draft legislation on access to infrastructure that the government has unfortunately not yet implemented. For the digital economy, the Self-Help for Development faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Victor Bondar's Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention from this rostrum to one very important social issue that exists today in Ukraine, the issue of housing for military personnel. I think, unfortunately, most media outlets did not point out that on June 22, the Court of Auditors approved and published an audit report on the effectiveness of budgeting allocated to the construction and acquisition of housing for military personnel. So, a report that's very loud, a report that says that there's essentially corruption in the Ministry of Defense in the area of housing for military personnel. The audience found that in the construction process and in the purchase of military housing, more than 600 million dollars have been misused in just the last two years. This is almost half of the funds that were allocated in 2016-2017 for housing. This suggests that if 2,000,200 apartments were to be purchased, the Ministry of Defense turned out to buy 1,000,83 apartments for families of Ukrainian military officers. That's terrible data. Because, in fact, the report makes it clear that the Ministry of Defense signed misdeeds during purchases, increased the cost of unfinished construction in a year, within nearly 100 million dollars, from 550, to 650 million dollars. This was at a time when the cost of living fell in Ukraine, and it was possible to buy accommodation at more affordable prices and more pragmatically. Unfortunately, we see that the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense does not have today a comprehensive program, as they plan to provide housing for our military personnel. As a result, up to 46,000 military personnel remain homeless today. For the last time, housing was massive and powerful, with some logic under the government of Yehanurov, when nearly 4.5 thousand military personnel were granted housing. For all the other years, Ukraine has issued from 85 apartments to a maximum of 2,000 apartments. And unfortunately, these are disgraceful numbers. During the war, the government and the Ministry of Defense should review their strategy. Therefore, we demand that the Ministry of Defence conduct a real audit of the use of these funds, listen to the Defence Minister’s report on Friday, what he thinks about the results of the audit of the Court of Auditors and how they are provided by the military’s apartments, and demand that an investigation be conducted. It's the prestige of the Ukrainian army, it's the security of our Ukrainian soldiers, who are now giving their lives for Ukraine, for its future. And it's an incentive for Ukrainians, for Ukrainian soldiers to protect their state, knowing that it will provide them with housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u15	From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u16	We listen carefully to the speeches of colleagues, tell everyone who is in pain: the one for digital technology, the one for housing, the one for coal miners. The root of these problems is what? In chaos, chaos of disorder. There is no protection for Ukrainians, there is no authority, there are huge armies of officials who receive space wages, and when human rights are to be protected, there is no one to go to. At the 50th Reycenter, there are 100 demures sitting around and no one is protecting the Ukrainians. That's the main problem: lack of power, chaos and lack of order in Ukraine. And what do we see on Constitution Day? President Poroshenko says that the most important thing is changes to the Constitution, taking a course towards the EU and NATO. We support this, but the Constitution can also include a flight to Mars. Only if there is no money and there is no opportunity to do so are these unfulfilled dreams. For us to be in the European Union, NATO, we must be strong, there must be order in the country and protection of human rights. As a result of the chaos, Ukrainians suffer primarily, who do not see prospects in their home country, who go abroad, who cannot earn money, who cannot find justice in the courts. In fact, the president proposes to preserve poverty and chaos. My political opponents, who are offering a parliamentary republic, want to do even worse. Who, who, who, a fool, can trust the fate of a country, the fate of their child, the fate of their future? Therefore, there must be iron discipline and order. We're proposing another initiative. The president is the head of state, the head of executive power, and is responsible for everything. People need to know from whom to ask for unemployment, for money, for poverty, for continuing war instead of doing everything to win. And we have seven baby-sitters with no eyes and nothing but eyes. President, the government is fighting for authority. I'm going to order, I'm going to eliminate dualism. We propose amendments to the Constitution, which we will refer to: the abolition of the Prime Minister's office, the reduction in the number of parliamentary deputies to 250, the mandatory withdrawal of deputies, the reduction of the number of ministries and the President, the head of executive power with strong parliamentary control powers. I'm initiating the Law on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine, on the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council, for Parliament to control both the President and the Authority. And the key change, in addition to the important ones in power, is the conversion of all judges and prosecutors to direct competitions for the participation of people, and the main thing is to ban the sale of land to foreigners, and to make Ukrainian farmers on Ukrainian land. That's when it's gonna be okay. And I'm going to bring him to this miserable country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u17	Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Arthur, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u18	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! On behalf of our faction, I would like once again to welcome all the Ukrainians with the Day of the Constitution, a holiday that Ukraine celebrated last week. 22 years ago, Ukrainian citizens were given the Basic Law, which brought Ukraine closer to countries with developed democracy and strengthened the independence of the new European state. On the eve of the anniversary of the adoption of the Basic Law, a significant event took place: the Constitutional Court of Ukraine approved the presidential drafting of Bill 7203 on the limitation of parliamentary immunity. So this week, the Ukrainian Parliament can make a decision on one of the main promises made to the electorate by almost all the political forces present here in the session room and vote in favour of the Ukrainian President's bill to abolish parliamentary immunity. I would like to remind you that today's convening of Parliament, together with the President of Ukraine, has already had a successful experience of introducing democratic improvements to the Constitution. The changes adopted in 2016 in part of justice became a driving force for judicial reform, the removal of the touchiness of judges, and the cleansing of the judiciary. Last month we actually completed the legislative part of the creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which proves that the democratic majority of parliament, led by the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka, is able to implement the initiatives of the President of Ukraine and make fundamental historical decisions that bring Ukraine to one level with the developed democratic countries of the world. Our faction also fully supports the idea of the President of Ukraine to establish a course for membership in the Constitution in the European Union and NATO. We are confident that such a decision will be a powerful protection for Ukrainians against the aggressors, his adepts in the country’s politics, who want to bring Ukraine back into the Kremlin’s orbit. The initiative is another powerful testimony that it is Peter Poroshenko who is at the head of the Euro-integration processes and hence the reforms and strengthening of democratic institutions. Thanks to a clear position, Ukraine's policy of integration into the civilized Western world continues to be consistently supported by our state. As you know, last week PARJE adopted an important resolution that requires the aggressor to immediately release all Ukrainian political prisoners from Russian prisons, including hungry Oleg Sentsov, Alexander Kolchenko, Vladimir Baluch. To emphasize, the resolution also requires Moscow to contribute directly to the release of Ukrainian hostages in the temporarily occupied areas of Lugansk, Donetsk. So another international document recognizes the invasion and participation of the RF in the Donbas war. The document also deals with respect for human rights and the admission of international observers to Ukrainians held in Russia and in the occupied Crimea. As for Parliament's work this week. We are obliged to update the composition of the CBC. Our faction also stresses the need to establish the National Bureau of Financial Security (draft 8157). We must take this decisive step to reduce the pressure on business. And to the end. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u19	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u20	And to conclude, I would like to point out that we are also obliged to conclude our consideration and adopt another important bill to strengthen the security of our country -- Bill 6697. He's called upon to protect the defence industry of Ukraine's businesses from external influence, particularly from legal attacks by the aggressor country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. And the people's deputy, Labazük, is invited to the floor. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The country is actively engaged in the struggle for a presidential chair, but in the pursuit of electoral ball, politicians have forgotten that the country is a country. The fourth year is fought, and part of the territory is annexed. Dozens of political prisoners — our citizens — continue to be held in enemy prisons. The aggressor does not intend to stop in spite of a strong antiputinian coalition. Instead, by the day of the Constitution of Ukraine, political forces and candidates had announced their vision of the new Basic Law. In such circumstances, the recipe for changes to the Constitution can be the only one. We have to "contain" Ukraine's course on European and Euro-Atlantic integration and strengthen decentralization reform. In fact, colleagues, we had a number of days before the session was concluded. The long-term series on the selection of the new composition of the CLTC and the judges of the Constitutional Court needs to be completed. There's nowhere else to go. Because the legitimacy of the next election of the head of state cannot be questioned. For the day this week, without exaggeration, the decisions are not just for agrarians, but for the country as a whole. In the heat of the harvest. But paradox is that while Ukraine is an agrarian state and we are among the world leaders of agricultural exports, the agricultural sector is constantly in shock from therapy. A number of issues remain unresolved. It is therefore urgent to support the 8121 anti-reception bills, a number of integration initiatives – 5458 d on organic production and 6527 d on agricultural cooperation. However, in our years of independence, we have lost the prestige of the labor profession. As a result, you will not find a mechanic, an electric cooker, a locksmith, or a number of other professions. Today, the important question for us is to restore the prestige of the professions. So literally the other day at my home place, we held a round table where we discussed the problem and looked for a recipe for change. The situation today is extremely difficult. From each entrepreneur, you can see the importance of the human resources situation in their businesses. First of all, it's about introducing elements of the dual education system at the level of the area. This experience is already being actively implemented in many cities. The People's will MPs insist: the education sector is strategic for the state, it's the biggest investment that can ever be made in its future. But it takes a lot of effort at all levels to make education quality, and most importantly, meet the challenges of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it didn't work out for the Fatherland faction, so now we're giving the word Sergey Sobolev, a statement from the faction. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u24	Dear friends, this discussion, which is taking place in this session hall and beyond in connection with the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution, provides an opportunity to examine once more the state of democracy in Ukraine during these years of independence. And I think that when the people of Ukraine, namely the people of Ukraine, stopped the dictator step by step before the surrender of the country to the Russian imperialists, I want to remind you that there was already an example in our country when Yanukovic was both President and Prime Minister and Chief Justice and Attorney General. As soon as this is over, we all remember each other well. But, God forbid, we will stop the dictator again by spilling the blood of our own citizens so that these dictators will never again be able to come to power in the country. We have, in fact, a number of days before the conclusion of this session. And when you analyze the order of the day, you wonder when there's no such thing as a very good name for the law, there's no children, there's no tax exemption, there's alimony payments, and in the same law, there's rules for exemption from the taxation of electrical equipment that's produced in Ukraine. And somehow our manufacturers will pay VAT, and the imports imported into Ukraine will not pay VAT. You're amazing, so why are there other people's kids? Do we call foreign children a little different? I am addressing the minister of justice who passed this wonderful bill, but suddenly the appropriate committee of profile decided, through such a direct, open lobbying, to conduct a rule that has no bearing on this law. Are we ready for this discussion? Perhaps advanced technologies need to be freed from additional loads, but not in a law that has such a beautiful name. Moreover, we are not in the position to leave behind a number of agrarian-related bills, especially legislation related to the protection of citizens living in high - level communities. So our faction insists that at least these last days before the break, before the holidays, those decisions that Ukrainian citizens so need are made immediately, and for the next week, and that's how we complete this parliamentary session, and get to the work of the new one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that last week we stopped to consider draft Law 8296. We have the first to consider child protection blocks. Three bills. The second block, the system that we're going to have today, is an information policy issue. The laws are unifying, and I hope that we will be able to work effectively today. We have now completed statements from factions and are moving to the right of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to create economic preconditions to strengthen the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance. I invite the chairman of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to the rostrum. Andrew Volodymyrovich, Ukraine awaits. And I'm reminding you that we ended up at 55. I'm going to call the adjustments that are rejected. Who will have the conviction to put an application for confirmation by raising his hand? Please. 55th. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist. He insists. 56th. Ivanchuk insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u26	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished members of the presidency, honourable members of Parliament! This bill, I don't remember, I've been head of the committee for so many years now that there's been such a lively discussion between the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament. Amendment 56. We counted it. But as a result of the discussions and in order to ensure a successful vote, Andry Volodymyrovich, we agreed that I would read it under the transcript, add amendment 56, paragraph one, in such an editorial. After the word "living a child," we add "in addition to the parents who are taking measures to enforce the decision to date a child and to remove obstacles to dating a child." After the words "in the composition of an organized group of children," we add "and in case he knows the place of residence of another parent who does not avoid and executes the parents properly. "
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u28	In the second paragraph after the words "for a period exceeding one month" replace by "for a month or more." In paragraph 5, the word "no alimony debt" should be replaced by the words "no parental responsibility and no alimony debt". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u29	Thank you. So 58th, Pawel. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u30	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The amendments I have proposed are partly taken into account. In fact, I do not think they are considered because they relate, not to populist ideas, but to the real responsibilities of children and parents. Yes, 58 adjustments in determining the size of alimony emphasize whether parents are deprived of parental rights. And this is very important for children who are deprived of parental care. I also want to make some remarks to the bill so that we don't speculate on the name and the subject of child rights in general, because that doesn't really apply directly to the protection of children's rights. Regrettably, the law does not say anything about creating economic preconditions to strengthen the child’s right to adequate maintenance, creating these economic preconditions, not taking into account the level of parental pay, the number of children, or the number of parents’ marriages, the relationship, the mutual responsibility of parents to provide conditions for a child’s living.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u32	This is not about the return of a child’s property that has been illegally sold. Rather, this bill deals with a single issue: alimony and debt penalties. I don't insist on voting for the amendment, and I want to stress that the Opposition Block, regardless of serious comments to this law, will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u33	Thank you for such a progressive position. 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. Royal, 68 revisions, if I'm not mistaken. Please, Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will support this bill, it's said to be better than nothing. Unfortunately, though, we realize that today’s issue of protecting children, families with children, is a priority in our country. Well, in the last four years alone, more than 1 million mothers have been deprived of material support from the state, children have been deprived of benefits, payments, and compensation. I ask you to think, over this time, the number of children in Ukraine has dropped by over 345,000. So today, the question of protecting childhood and motherhood, overcoming the demographic crisis that exists in the state today, needs a comprehensive solution. And that's why we insist that, first of all, before the deputies of this room go on vacation, we consider Bill 6063-D.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Next: 73rd. Don't insist. 71st, Pawel, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u36	Regrettably, this adjustment is also partially accounted for and not actually counted. And in general, it would be right to call this law "to amend certain legislation concerning the restriction of the rights of one parent due to failure to pay alimony" rather than to protect the rights of the child. Regrettably, there is a major problem with this law, which strengthens the penal function of the State in relation to the family. And I'm paying attention to both the Ministry of Justice and the relevant professional committees that all the recommendations of the international organizations that are in Ukraine are required of Ukraine: do not reinforce the penal function, but strengthen the auxiliary, restoring function to a family that is in difficult circumstances. And I ask the Minister of Justice again, after all, to answer my question about the number of children who don't have officially registered parents. Because this information depends on the further implementation of this law. And how much risk do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u37	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u38	And how much more risk do we have that the number of children who do not even know their father’s name will increase as a result of their approval?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u39	Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u40	Your Honor, I do not agree with you, because the first package of the laws of "Foreign Children" is only this year that the executive service has raised 1 billion 800 million dollars for the benefit of the smallest Ukrainians. Here's the economic basis for these bills. We continue to increase our responsibility for all of this. See, half a million children received this money. The second question. In the Ivano-Frankiv region, let me tell you about one case, my father paid $2 million in alimony debt. Mother herself came into the executive service and said, "Stop the persecution, please, because in eight years he began to exercise his parental rights conscientiously." So let's support this law, and we're really protecting the smallest Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u41	Thank you. 73rd. Let's go 75 on the right. 75th, your turn. One minute, Pavlenko, 75 degrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u42	In fact, I realize that we have a responsibility toward children whose parents did not pay alimony. And the work done by the Ministry of Justice, the return of these debts, is obviously positive. But I note that today we have more than 20 percent, and in some regions more than 30 percent of children born out of wedlock are not given a name, a name, or a father. And unfortunately, this repressive punitive function, which is intensified, can lead to the fact that parents will stop registering at all. So I'm paying attention to this law that we have to anticipate in future laws that we have no father, name and surname left in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u43	77. Don't insist. 78. Don't insist. It's the '80s. Don't insist. 86th. Don't insist. 86th. Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, as we have already pointed out, although there are many questions before this bill and there are very many conflicting issues, we will support it because it is better than nothing. But today there's a whole series of questions that are common, which is about everyone without excluding the children of Ukraine, and in the first place, we need to solve today the issues of children who are living in war today, children of the East, children who have become displaced. Well, Your Honor, today more than 1 million 700,000 children who have been victims of this war are more than 500,000 of these children who now live in shelter to the line of collision, but unfortunately in four years no government or parliament has ever resolved this issue in a comprehensive manner. And that is why we insist that we urgently consider before this House's release, Bill 6510, which is prepared by all women and mothers of Ukraine to protect children who have suffered from the war in eastern Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u45	Thank you. 89th. Don't insist. 87th Pauline. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u46	I'd like to, too. First of all, I thank the committee for taking this into account, 85, by removing this chapter because unfortunately, this paragraph was even more far away from the rights of the child. At the same time, I would like to point out that the adoption of this law will increase the restrictions on the identification of the rights of a single parent, in a slow residence, in a name change, in a father. And I point out to the government that in September of this year there will be a report to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, where one of the requirements is to reduce the sentence and increase the support function of the family. Regrettably, I am confident that the results of this law will give us a warning: to make changes to it regarding the strengthening of the auxiliary rehabilitation function in relation to the family. So I urge the government to prepare a detailed report and prepare for changes to this law. And once again, I want to thank the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u47	Thank you. Ninety-three. Don't insist. 94th. Don't insist. 97th. 98th. 99th. 101st. 102nd. 105th. On the 96th right, the head of the Ivanchuk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, under our common agreement between all factions and groups, I will read under the transcript of amendment 96, which is included in the article. In part five of this article, add a new paragraph: “The debtor’s decision to set up a date with a child and to remove obstacles to dating is made to the only debtor register at the same time as the obligor’s decision to impose a fine.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u49	Thank you. 107th. Don't insist. 115th. 116th. 117th. 118th. 119th. 121st. 124th. 125th. 126th. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Amendment 126 of the national deputy of Schenchev to the Committee, we add after the words "incurring a debtor of a criminal offence, applying for temporary limitation of the debtor's right of departure outside Ukraine to the court for the location of the State enforcement authority, makes a reasoned decision to impose a temporary limitation on the debtor's right to manage the means of transport (with regard to the restrictions provided for in article 71 of this Act). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u51	Thank you. So, colleagues, there's a few rights left. In two minutes, we're going to vote. I ask you to invite deputies to the Hall and the heads of factions and the Secretariat. Next. 137th. Don't insist. And, colleagues, we have thus concluded a discussion on the rights of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to create economic preconditions to strengthen the protection of the right of the child to adequate maintenance (No. 8296). In two minutes, we're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And now I'm giving the closing statement to the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u52	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, all who are watching us on TV right now! You know that in the seven, more than seven years that I've been in charge of the Economic Policy Committee, I don't remember a much more difficult discussion. You know, when this bill was passed on the committee of the Ukrainian Parliament, on the one hand were parents, dad, on the other, mom, and there was a very serious discussion about the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament is taking sides. But in the course of all of this, I was able to convince the members of the committee that we are protecting the interests of the children. We don't take sides because we want children not to be held hostage at times in an uneasy relationship between a father and a mother. I would like to say that last year two hundred and fifty thousand almost RAGS have registered children, where there is no parent, where one of the parents is a biological object. It's unacceptable, I agree with you. So, dear friends, you know what revolution we've made as the first package of laws, "No foreign children." We're civilized, no one believed we'd make such tectonic distortions. We really helped the smallest Ukrainians, we really care for our children, and this is our responsibility, because it is our credo: there are no foreign children. Dear friends, in this bill. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear friends, in this bill we have managed to reach consensus on all controversial issues. It was very, I thank everyone very much for the work, for the tens of hours we spent at the round tables and on the committees for discussing the bill. The committee that you're invited to adopt today is a self-balanced, quality regulation itself. We have been able to reach consensus on all issues. All MP factions, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u53	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u54	All the MP factions, all the MPs, have shown support for the bill, have declared. I am very much asking everyone to unite, the entire Ukrainian Parliament, and to support Bill 8296. There are no foreign children! Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u55	Thank you. So let's move on to the vote, as the committee head suggested. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you've been head of the committee for seven years now, haven't you? The presidents changed, the venues went through, and Ivanchuk remained the head of the committee. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please return to the Chamber of Deputies. Fellows, I'm going to address those who are in bed again. Go back to the hall, get some jobs. So let's go to the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to create economic preconditions for strengthening the protection of the child's right to due custody (No. 8296), with the rights that the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, and with technical and legal rights in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:52:22]] For 230 The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of the same block. The next question has just a few rights. So don't leave the hall. Next law: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for those who care for sick children (No. 8294). And I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy of Kaplin Sergio Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Sergei. I'm going to read the papers the same way. Anyone who wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. So 2a. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 10th. Pauline. 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u56	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, a distinguished reporter, we are no doubt in favour of this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is intended to provide one subsistence minimum for the appropriate family category. In our view, this is critically small, the more the minimum of living is not indexed, the more it is predicted that the increase for the next three years is projected to be only 14 percent. So I would ask the committee to look very carefully at the possible increase of one living minimum to at least two, because unfortunately these costs will not really help families who raise appropriate categories of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u57	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Okay. 22nd. Easy. 22nd, Baby, then 14th, Royal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u58	Today, as a result of socio-economic policy, when moms get money, a lot of Ukrainian kids are actually orphans with living parents. Many of these children are taught in boarding schools because there is nothing in the family to feed the child. 800 bracelets is child care per month. Who can care for the 800 bracelets, especially when the child is disabled and when he needs special help? That's why we demand authority: the best protection for Ukrainian children is to raise the income of their parents, raise wages, increase birth aid for a child, care for a child, and raise children. This summer, 80 percent of Ukrainian children are not resting anywhere because they have no money to rest. In addition, building a home for young people to give birth to children and looking confidently at tomorrow. This is a radical party policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u59	You don't insist on voting, do you? 14th, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, it is certainly good that children’s protection has been discussed in this room at all. But unfortunately, today it's more of a caveat. So we offer a comprehensive solution to the issue of child protection. Each of you national deputies received letters from the Ukrainian Mothers' Council of the Social Policy Committee. Each of you has received a petition from the Women for Peace who have taken part in and developed a package of laws to protect children. It's a raise at the birth of a child, it's a payback for children under 3 years of age, it's a payoff for children who are now affected by the war in eastern Ukraine. For over a year, three bills have been pending in the hall that will allow for a comprehensive solution to the issue of child protection today. And so we ask, Mr. Speaker, please, this bill has passed the committee's profile, we've received full support. Well, let's take a look at them for a vacation and protect the children in our country. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u61	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u62	This is Bill 6063-d, Bill 6510 and Order 8384. These three decisions, they'll make.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u63	Thank you. 26th. Don't insist. 21st, Pawel. And, colleagues, this is going to be a final amendment. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, 21st, Pawel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u64	I thank the committee for taking into account the remedies that relate to completing the family list of foster parents, parents of foster homes of the family type. At the same time, I would like to point out that there have been more violent violations of children's rights in solving problems with family arrangements. What Oleg Valeriyovich was talking about today in boarding schools is not just those who have parents and are poor, but those who are currently in the middle of the Internet, who are actually orphans, but their status is due to the inaction of the Ministry of Social Policy and the relevant departments. Once again, we have rekindled such a disgraceful phenomenon as hidden orphanages, when a child, in fact an orphan, receives no support from the State. And I'm calling on the government to protect immediately the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care, to get status, and to be able to raise and live in a family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion of rights, have been completed. In a minute or two, we're going to vote, so I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And now I invite you to the closing statement of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy of Kaplin Sergio Mikolaiovich, in two minutes. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u66	Dear compatriots, distinguished colleagues! I want to assure you that the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement is giving as much attention as possible under the current economic conditions to the problems of children. Yes, during the last month we visited about twelve district centers, where we gave special attention to issues and problems related to the social protection of such families and the protection of children. In particular, I would like to point out that we were created by a committee of so - called parent councils, where most of the social, professional, community, movement, and organizations throughout the country came into existence. We pay particular attention to those children who live in the Syrian zone who are victims of the war, the wars in the Donetsk and Lugansk region and the problems associated with the occupation of the Crimea. We will continue to do everything in our power to shift the emphasis on helping such families, vulnerable families. In particular, I would like to point out that tomorrow, together with the Health Committee, we are holding a joint meeting. However, with the presence of government officials here, I would like to state that the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Health have expressly refused to participate in the meeting, the joint meeting of the Social Committee and the Health Committee. We emphasize, we call on the Prime Minister of Ukraine that this is actually a violation of parliamentaryism, it is a violation of the importance of resolving issues, particularly children and the socially unprotected families of our country, and we demand the presence of the Minister of Social Policy and the Minister of Health. We ask you to vote in favour of this bill so that we can take the next step in solving the problems that have been identified today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u67	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats during the vote, don't leave the room. The faction's head! So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of people who care for sick children (No. 8294) on the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general on technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, let's support the children. [[11:02:20]] For 275 The law is passed. And the final law on the children's rights block, the next is the draft Act amending articles 165 and 166 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (8295). And I invite the head of the Tax and Customs Committee to the rostrum of Southern Nina Petrovna. Colleagues, just a few rights, don't come out of the hall, we'll get to the vote very quickly. So I'm going to read the papers. Whoever wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Tchacouk. This will be a final amendment, I ask everyone to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. 7 edits, turn on Tachuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u68	I insist on entering and voting for this 7th amendment. From my point of view, it's actually proposed today to create an open-ended tax avoidance scheme. And that's why I'm asking you to put this 7 right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u69	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u70	What kind of renegade, a respected colleague, is he talking about? For the first time, we're giving the same opportunity to get a tax discount for internally displaced persons who, according to a notarized or other housing contract, can place this amount in an annual tax declaration as a tax discount and limit it to 30 minimum wages. So if you count, the taxpayer, the internally displaced person who works, can, by year's result, and who doesn't get, by the way, from the budget of any payout, can recover as much as 11,000 taxes paid. But this is the person who found work, works, and pays taxes to the state. So there's a perfectly legitimate approach here as to all the tax discounts that are and are set in our country. No schematics at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Are you insisting on confirmation? So I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 8, the committee supported it. Seven, seven, number seven, the committee supports it. Please decide how to vote. Please vote. [[11:05:14]] For 193 The decision is not made. On the 8th right, three deputies immediately raised their hand, but Victor Pinzenik was the first to raise them. And that's why I'm giving the floor to Victor Pinzenik on the 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, some of the rules that apply to the income tax have added VAT benefits to the import of imported equipment, which is wrong in itself and also contravenes the Rules. But I would like to remind you that the Alternative Energy Act provides for special supplements to the Green Tariff using Ukrainian equipment to produce alternative energy. This law provides for the provision of benefits to imported equipment. You can't give with one hand, force society to pay for the benefits of Ukrainian equipment, and with the other hand, you can make people pay for the benefits of imported equipment. Either one or the other. So I insist on putting in 8 confirmations, and my colleague in Parliament is asking me not to support this exercise. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I want to explain. There is an active norm of the Tax Code, articles 197-16. This was the determination of which equipment, energy - saving materials, equipment, and equipment were released from VAT. It was cancelled in 2008, cancelled only in 2014, when we were looking for additional revenue. Now there's another rule that applies to exemption from VAT, but only Japanese equipment and equipment. This equipment, which is now listed in this amendment, is not produced in Ukraine, I am responsible for it, it corresponds to the standards we adopted earlier, that we support the domestic manufacturer. But if such equipment is not produced, it is a temporary norm we continue to make. I'm asking you to do this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Two amendments were made to a second reading that was not really in the first reading. In the last three months, however, no economic law has been considered in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u75	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u76	It's very good that I can do that, and some people are afraid to admit what's going on. We've added two amendments, as is done in other laws that are being passed here, in the hall, to support the economy in Ukraine, to support energy conservation and alternative forms of energy, in the end, it's the energy independence of our country. What are you hanging your head about now? What do you mean? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u77	So I'm betting on confirmation of finalization number 8. Whoever supports it, this amendment, please vote for confirmation. [[11:08:38]] For 155 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we're done discussing draft Law 8295. A vote will take place in a minute. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm giving you two minutes for Nina Petrovni's closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, for the first time, we tried internally displaced persons to make a discount, not an effective aid. So the person who's got a job, locked up and officially taking down a housing that doesn't have the capacity to use his own housing, is all the fuses that are set out in this standard, get a tax discount. This amount can reach a maximum of 11,000 980 dollars a year. Is it such a large amount to support internally displaced persons? And the second. Whatever you're saying about equipment that you just didn't support, you absolutely can't understand that you can't then cancel the operating norm of the Tax Code and don't say that we support the import of such equipment. We were supported from 2008 to the 14th year, now we're on a break. I'm just insisting on you, please forget about your own ambitions, we need to think about how we're really building wind and solar power stations right now, and what parliamentarians are doing in the hall, supporting or not, or just smiling, not supporting all these initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u79	Thank you, dear fellows. So let's move on to making a decision. And I am now voting on the draft Act amending articles 165 and 166 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (No. 8295) in second reading and in general with technical law. Colleagues, or I don't read the Rules properly, or you don't read well. The papers weren't supported, were they? Are there any other questions on this subject? Hall's been determined. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. How can it be done with editing? without any railings that weren't supported by the hall? So once again, a discussion took place in the hall. Two amendments were put to the vote for confirmation. They were not supported. There is no other mechanism for putting to a vote without them. And so that everyone understands how we vote, I have just explained and put once again the draft Law amending articles 165 and 166 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (8295) on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:12:12]] For 235 The law is passed. I welcome all those who have come to support us today in the hall, and I welcome all the working groups that have worked around the laws for the protection of children's rights, and the minister of justice, and the head of the committee of Ivanchuk, but most importantly, the children who will be more protected, and the state guarantees this protection for all Ukrainian children. Congratulations! So we move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of credit (No. 6027-d). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't have to support you, I agree. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. It's the second reading, the right hand is not much, the colleagues, not much. And I'm asking people and national deputies to stay in the hall. So I'm going to read, as usual, the adjustments that are rejected. Third. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 19th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 22nd. Don't insist. I've read every paper, and don't speak so emotionally. It's the 12th. Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians. This amendment is proposed in section I of part two of the bill after the word "get" is added with the word "additional". This proposal suggests that we clarify that it is an additional electronic payment device that can be obtained by trust. This change is editorial and aimed at eliminating contradictions with paragraph 14.12, paragraph 2, where it is noted that the use of a trust fund is not permitted, except in the case of an issue of an additional electronic payment agent for a trusted person. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Let me remind you that number 12 was partially supported. Mr. Husak suggests that the hall be fully supported. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:15:27]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 29th. 32nd. Please, Gusak, 32 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u82	It is proposed in section 1 of paragraph 4 of paragraph 5 to amend article 593 of the Ukrainian Civil Code from the text of the bill. The fact is that the termination of a legal person in general, apart from liquidation, does not stop his or her commitment. The proposed law thus terminates these obligations in contravention of the current Ukrainian legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u83	Thank you. So 32 of the committee's revisions are rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. Vote. [[11:16:37]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 34th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 45th. Don't insist. 48th. Don't insist. 52nd. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 60th. 63rd. Don't insist. 73rd. 73rd Dovbenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u84	Colleagues, although some of the amendments to this bill are not supported by me, I think that the working group on the committee has worked quite productively and has achieved a balanced bill. I think the property rights are still more clearly defined. And it's not that important when they say that banks win or investors win or borrowers win. Those who want us to have a clearer understanding of how to establish these obligations in different contracts will win. So I propose to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u85	On the right hand side of the vote, do you insist? No, it's not. Okay. 69th, Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u86	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, I will not now address those financial institutions that are really law-abiding and operating according to current legislation. But what does Amendment 69 say? The availability in the State Register of Real Estate Rights, the information on the mortgage item, is not the basis for the refusal of State registration of immovable property rights. So the banks first re-register their assets, and then they go to court and they figure out why this property is under arrest. We cannot, by fighting unscrupulous borrowers, create conditions under which. create possible raid schemes from the banks. We're all over Ukraine just recently away from the so-called dentist banker era. And that edit opens up a new era, an era of banker-conductors. I'm asking you to confirm that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u87	Explain. 79? 69th. So I'm betting on confirmation of 69 revisions. The committee supported her. Anyone who supports the position of the committee, please vote. [[11:19:38]] For-99 The decision is not taken. 48th, Goose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the project contains positive standards aimed at increasing the protection of the rights of borrowers. In particular, if the bill is adopted, the borrower will have the right to terminate the contract if the bank changes unilaterally, raises the interest rate. We consider these standards to be positive. And that's why the opposition block faction will support the bill. I would also like to put to the vote and support the amendment that I have made, because now the bill contains an important novel. That the heir’s right to receive an inheritance is replaced by an inheritance. This rule we're proposing to delete so that it remains the right thing to do. But in general, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u89	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 48. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:21:07]] Z-62 The decision is not made. 77th. 79th. Colleagues, I'll tell you. I read every paper and looked at the authors. The authors were careless, untraceable, and are now raising their hand. I'll give you my word now, but for the second time, be more careful. Yvchenko, 40 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u90	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we see, on the contrary, the one-sided nature of the bill, which reinforces the rights of financial institutions directly and does not take into account the interests of the borrowers. For example, banks can now turn to objects that are not yet in service. So they find an object and arrest it. The other one. Banks are now 14 days after a person has paid off the loan, and they may not record arrests. In fact, 14 days to get more money from the borrower. Next. The court is deprived of the right to terminate the mortgage. Colleagues, where are the lenders' rights? Fatherland won't vote in favour of the bill. And we've actually expressed a position on some of the observations that are being reinforced for financial institutions today, and in no way does the rights of bank lenders increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u91	Please, Demczak Ruslan Evgenyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u92	I want to answer without fail, for not everything is in line with reality, as stated in the preceding talk. First of all, I want to assure everyone that this is about new contracts, new ones. We are creating a new legal field so that there will be no abuse in the future. That's the main thing, and I want you to hear it. In addition, regarding objects that are not put into service. Very often the land that is mortgaged is then built, and as a result, the borrower who took the land is not able to raise it because there is an unfinished building. It's because of these to insure such incidents, but that doesn't mean that the borrower can't go to the credit institution, get permission to do everything in the right field, if it takes into account the absolute rights of both sides. We look to the future and take away possible abuses that are already a practice of previous years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u93	Thank you. So I'm putting 40 national deputy Yvchenka to the vote, he doesn't insist. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. I now invite all the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And now I'm giving the closing statement three minutes to Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. And please invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! The bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of credit (No. 6027) has been developed on the committee, as you can see, virtually all the amendments have been agreed upon, it has a very quality final edition. The only thing I'd like to do under the transcript is read some additions, they're strictly technical and legal. And so, about article 62 of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking, line nine. In paragraph five, paragraph 1, of the draft legislation, supported by the committee, replace the word “indicative” with the word “appropriate”, the words “in the form of an inheritance” with the words “in the form of an inheritance”. In paragraph 7, paragraph 1, of the bill, paragraph 11, in the text supported by the Committee, the word “other” should be deleted. The other one. The word "inheritance formation" should be deleted. Line 113, paragraph 3 of the Final and Transitional Positions. "Temporaryly for the duration of the anti-terrorist operation, the United Forces Operation on National Security and Defence, the secession and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk region and the temporary occupation of Ukraine's territory are allowed to certify any changes to the Treaty of Hostiles and/or Mortgage Agreement, which was made and certified in the established Ukrainian legislation of order in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the city of Sevastopol, or the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine prior to the start of the anti-terrorist operation, the Operation of the United Nations National Security and Defence Force, the cutting-off and containment of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and the occupation of the territory, at the site of the site (the place of the site of registration) of one party's resolution. different from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the city of Sevastopol, or the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine." Also in the first part of article 24 of the bill "On the House of Accounts" replace the words "paying" with the words "paying." Also, please take into account in the drafting of the 69th Committee, which was supported by the committee in the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Do you want to explain that you're proposing to go back to 69? We voted her, didn't we? Ruslan, Mr. Ruslan. Please turn on another minute. And please explain the corrections that you just read from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u96	69 revisions are very important. We actually had a discussion, and we would have accepted it anyway, it's very important, it's the very basic norm that's in this bill. It tells us that very often we see the practice that those borrowers who took credit, especially criminal cases, now, you know that under the new Code of Procedure, investigators are obliged to break criminal cases and arrest objects. It didn't allow it to be brought up then, such arrests could have been two, three, several, by such. Then the criminal case was investigated, but the lender could not exercise his right. Now, if there's a mortgage agreement, it's primary, it's first, and then it's already arrested, it's allowed to hold the strings, but these strings don't cancel, they stay behind the object. That's why I think we should leave it. And once again, dear fellows, let's consolidate and vote separately for 69 revisions. The bill has to be adopted with 69 readjustments counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u97	Thank you. So the chairman of the committee wants to go back to number 69. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take a seat, now there will be one vote to return, and then immediately the law. So I ask everyone to come into the hall, not leave the hall, Gennady, but return to the hall. So, colleagues, just a few deputies came out of the hall. Please explain to the factions that when voting goes on we should be in the hall. The first is the vote, the return to number 69. If we return, we will confirm it, if not, right before the law is passed. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 69, which the committee representative considers to be the key in this law. Please vote, please support the committee to return to number 69. Are you ready? Come into the hall, come into the hall. Please take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? So the first vote is to go back to number 69. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please support, we vote. [[11:30:14]] For 193 The decision is not taken. So I'm putting the law in general without a 69. We didn't make it? Can I put it again? So I'm betting on the vote. We're not coming back, big break to 226. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reinstatement of credit (No. 6027-d) in the second reading and in general with the rights issued by a committee representative, without 69 rights, with technical and legal rights, in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[11:31:28]] For 215 We didn't make it, colleagues. I'll be right back. During the vote, I saw some of the deputies leave the hall. Go back to the hall, please, and then we count each voice. I'm asking you to come back to the hall. I'll be back in a minute. I ask everyone to return to the hall. Please include the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 93, "National Front" – 45, "Resistance Block" – 18, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 1, "will of the people" – 10, "Resurrection" – 3. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put to the vote an offer to go back to the law. And I ask the heads of the factions of all to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 6027-d. Every voice has a weight, and so I ask to be in place during the vote. Please prepare and vote in favour of the return to draft Law 6027-d. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. Vote. [[11:33:11]] For 217 Less votes. So, colleagues. Look, we found an understanding in the consultation. Attention! For 30 seconds now, Ruslan Demczak, and this proposal will unite the hall. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, Demczak, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we've just consulted with the Self-Help political force, and we'll get their support if we don't count another 70 amendments. I agree that this is editorially the bill that was supposed to be, it will be whole and I would like to call on you all to support, including without 70 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm going to put the vote back on the vote, and then I'm going to put it without 70. So please, colleagues, carefully take up jobs. I'd like to make my first suggestion to go back to the 6027-d draft. Please vote and support for your return, for your return. In return, please vote. [[11:34:50]] For 235 Now, colleagues, pay attention, take up jobs. I'm voting on Bill 6027-d, as amended by the transcript of Ruslan Demczak, no 69th, no 70th articles, second reading, and, as a whole, with technical legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice! Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:35:30.]] For 239. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Extractive Industries Transparency Act (No. 6229). And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Belkov Olga Valentinovna. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Transparency in Extractive Sectors (Registration No. 6229), which is written by 21 national deputies of almost all factions, and which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 March 2018. This bill is very important and relevant today, because it links transparency in the management of natural resources, which is the property of the Ukrainian people, that is, each of your constituents, the prevention of corruption in this area, and the involvement of investment in the mining sector. The bill is designed to implement several directives of the European Union in order to increase the transparency of the production sector. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has worked out all the proposals and amendments to the bill that have come from entities of the law of the legislative initiative. In general, 89 amendments were made to the bill, which I, Victor Yvchenk, Alexia Rybczyn and Sergey Sazek, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u101	One minute, please pass to Mrs. Bilkovi. And I want to look to my colleagues, especially the front lines with the loud voices: treat the reporters with respect. Thank you, thank you. What is the point of giving you a word? [[B in m in s a l in]] A public man doesn't scream like that all over the hall. Please, Mrs. Belkovy, give me one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u102	Like an unpublished man.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u103	Mr. Yvchenko, please, yes. One minute, please pass to Mrs. Bilkovi. And I ask you, Mrs. Bilkova, to note that the name "public man" is Yvchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u104	Dear colleague Vadim, as an unpublished man, and your colleague who respects your work, I apologize for accidentally calling your name wrong. I know your name perfectly well, and I will continue to try to speak without mistakes. The committee also took into account all the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority, which are technical and legal in nature and which significantly improve the drafting of the bill. So today, the Chief Legal Authority has accepted the bill without notice. Colleagues, I suggest we move on to specific amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u105	Thank you for your clarification, Mrs. Olga. And we're moving on to the amendments of honourable colleagues who tabled their amendments to the bill. Mrs. Olya, come back, please. And 1 amendment, National Deputy Rybchin. Alexei Rybchin. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u106	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will be all about supporting this very important bill, which will allow for the fight against corruption in the mining sector, which unfortunately there is now. I worked on this bill myself, my colleague, Alona Shkrum, my colleague, Vadim Ivchenko, worked on the amendments. We have worked with the committee in a professional way, and I think we should vote, and I call for this bill to be voted on by our colleagues. If this bill is properly implemented by the government -- this is a separate, separate discussion, how it will be implemented -- then we have a chance in a single, two-time period to have all the information we don't have right now. And it's the public, the activists, the anti-corruption authorities that can make certain conclusions: who owns it, who owns it, who owns it, why our nagras go without bidding to the incomprehensible structures and Ukraine. Ukrainian citizens don't get their rents out of this, they don't get their taxes in the budget. I hope and I am sure that this bill will do its job and must be supported. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! I'd like to make my mark on the number one amendment of the reverend Alexia. Alexia Rybkin, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[11:40:36]] Z-62 Correction not accepted. 4 Amendment by colleague Vadim Yvchenk Will you insist on it? Please, Mr. Vadim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u108	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I ask you, when I make a comment, I don't communicate with the rostrum. I'm paying attention to my colleague so she can get better. And you don't have to publicize "whom Rabbinic" as they say. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to see you, colleague. I've come to you, colleague, and I've come to you with the following. First. Why do we delete dividend information? There's an adjustment where we rule out dividend information, so we make it closed. The other one. We're removing information about the cost of production in the extractive industries. And the third. We're fined for unreliable information. The MP turned to him, and he was given misinformation. And in fact, when he can prove it, we're fines. Why such corrections have literally been introduced into the law that we are, including the Fatherland, co-authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to name the names of the other national deputies. Because right now, Deputy Rabinovich will demand the right to a replica and we will never consider an amendment. Please, I'm only asking for an amendment to go. And we're voting on the 4th amendment. But first, Mrs. Olga will explain the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u110	Thank you, ma'am! Dear Vadim Evgenovich! The committee has carefully considered the entire series of your rights. We actually wanted to support you. But this bill is specifically based on an international standard called the EITI, or an initiative for the transparency of manufacturing industries that are being implemented in 51 countries. And the standard clearly defines what kind of information you can publish and demand from companies. I'll tell you that Ukraine has gone beyond some of our European colleagues in this bill. We go gradually to reveal all the information. You filed number 4 on the value. No company operating in a competitive market in Ukraine is required to discover such information today. Neither is this required in the IPAH or the EIT. We did not find support, although we wanted to show respect for you, Reverend Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like to make a four-pronged definition. The committee turned her down. [[11:43:36]] For-56 The correction is being rejected. Next up is the 8th, same as the national MP Ivchenka. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u112	Thank you, colleague. You know, I'd like to make it clear that these are state-owned enterprises or public companies with a public share. And any Ukrainian citizen should know: (a) what is the value of the product. And believe me, that's what it takes to continue to set up an understandable system of allowances or an understandable system of taxation to give people a sense of what they're going to be worth in the future, for example, prices, including gas. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to understand, but why are you and I taking away dividends? Why we're afraid to give you official information that millions of dollars go as dividends to certain top managers of these companies. I ask you once again to say that from a law that is normal in terms of transparency of information, you've introduced standards where you're closing some of the information. I say once again: self-sustainment, dividends, and, thirdly, you have fined for the lie of the top managers who give.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u113	Please state the position of the committee, Mrs. Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u114	Dear colleague, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee didn't throw anything away. The subject of the legislative initiative is you as the author of this amendment. You're making an amendment that makes it necessary to discover the value of what we can tell you again that the standard does not provide for this. Today, about eight companies are operating in the market, producing about 90 percent of the total gas in Ukraine. There are, in fact, state companies, but there are also private companies. As far as the dividends of state companies are concerned, they are still being opened under the law today. As far as private companies are concerned, we cannot require their owners to demand additional information outside the legislation on shareholders or on T.O.S. It does not directly apply to manufacturing industries. Thus, the committee was unable to support you, although it wanted your amendments very much, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for the 8th Amendment. The committee turned her down. [[11:46:18]] For-64 The correction is being rejected. 11th Amendment, Sažko, People's Deputy. Don't insist. That's what I understand, the 14th, also the national MP Sažko, our colleague. Don't insist. 22nd. He doesn't insist either. 38th. Don't insist. 39th National Deputy Yvchenko. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u116	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I am still asking that we make and support these adjustments. They need us to know the information today, believe me. This is not said about public companies in private, it says exclusively about companies where the state works. Why do we have to close, once again, the dividend information? I'd like it to be public, and everybody knows it, and it was posted on the official website, it was given information on the request of the deputies of the relevant authorities, and so on. That's normal if we're talking about transparency. If we're just talking about doing some conditions there, I'd like to expand this list. Because today we have a situation where they don't give us information about dividends or give us information about self - worth. Although I'd like to clearly trace as a opposition faction what's happening in us today and in the market, including gas and in the Naftogaz structure in general. So I would ask that we support these changes, and with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u117	Thank you for explaining your correction. Please speak to the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u118	This series of rights deals solely with the question of the publication of self - worth, and I ask the Hall to determine whether it wants to see self - worth in all companies, both in private and in public, because this law applies to all those who work in the market. I would also like to remind your honorary colleague, Vadim Evgenovich, that today in Ukraine, we are not planning an economy, we are operating in certain market conditions, and accordingly even state public companies are operating in the same way as private companies. As for dividends, dividends are now being published according to the Kabmin regulations. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u119	Thank you for explaining this amendment and for the committee’s position. And now, dear fellows, we ask you to identify yourself on the amendment of 39 People's Deputies Ivchenka. It's a committee against it. The committee rejected, Vadim Evgenovich, absolutely fair. [[11:49:06]] For-72
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u120	The decision is not made. 82nd. Don't insist. 84th. Don't insist. 85th, please. 1-a, right? One, Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u121	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. In fact, the bill reveals a great deal of information, but I agree with my colleague Vadim Yvchenk, who could have added more. And hopefully the next time the greater agreement of colleagues goes gradually, we will vote on it. Because the questions we ask in public companies don't answer us about value and dividends. But also, I think in the next iteration of increasing transparency, we can raise fines for not providing information because there is now some administrative or economic responsibility. My suggestion was that if the company refuses and doesn't give all the reports it has to give, just stop the license until it gives the citizens of Ukraine what they need to do. Unfortunately, this amendment was not supported by the committee, perhaps it would be supported in the hall to fine even more companies that were against transparency. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Belkova Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u123	Dear Alexus, as you recall, we have considered very carefully, discussed your revision, indeed, she has a rational chain like this. Because today in Ukraine, 50 percent of the licenses issued over the last 3-4 years by private companies are so-called sleepy. And, indeed, it would be useful for Dergeonandra to finally take this matter into her own hands and deprive them of their right to hold these licenses. At the same time, I have to admit that some district councils are acting irrationally today, making bad decisions about reconciliations, issuing permits and so on, and today, in fact, companies are found between two fires. It seems to me that you and I have already shown good will, and the next bill will be strengthened if necessary. At the same time, I ask the room to identify with this idea, and I support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u124	Thank you. So I'm putting the 81 Ribbon to a vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:51:48]] Z-91 The decision is not made. And 85th, the author doesn't insist. So, colleagues, we've completed the law review and in two or three minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. So I forcefully ask all the national MPs to enter the hall, and I ask the factions to mobilize the national MPs as much as possible. And now I'm giving you three minutes for the closing statement of Belkovo Olza Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in fact, this Parliament has done a great deal to restore investor confidence in the gas industry in Ukraine. Recently, together with all colleagues of all factions, we have adopted a series of legislative acts that have changed the fiscal regime, which have changed the simplification of land issues for gas. We've found compromise on cooperation with local communities, all of this is very important. At the same time, investors today are still afraid to come to the market because they know that not all companies operate under the same conditions. I want to commend, by the way, that all those companies that are operating in Ukraine today with large quantities of production, both private and public, have agreed and voluntarily opened all these data, all the information, we've worked with them on this bill, and they don't have any warnings. At the same time, some colleagues today have a warning in the hall, and they would like more information, but we need to move on gradually. I am very much asking for every vote in favour of this bill because it will have a significant impact on the investment climate after investing in natural gas in Ukraine. Today, all of our voters need Ukrainian gas. Ukrainian producers pay taxes, they hire workers, and most of all, it's the only way to make gas cheaper for all Ukrainians. Thank you very much for your support. I would also like to request that the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Legal Office, be entrusted with a technical and legal process when preparing a bill to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u126	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, this is one of the most important drafts today. And I'm asking the heads of factions, and I see that a large number of deputies are not in the hall, and I'm asking them to come into the hall. I'm asking the committee members to help mobilize the hall. Please, everyone, come into the hall. From Parliament's bed, including. This law is in support of Ukrainian gas consumption. And I ask everyone to uphold this law and vote responsibly. I'll wait another 30 seconds. Please take up jobs. So I put to the vote the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (No. 6229) in second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Everyone, please take part in the vote and please vote. Each voice, colleagues, please support and please vote. Vote. Colleagues, be careful with each voice. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:56:21]] For-198 I'll put it back, colleagues, it's basically an important law. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm asking the members of the committee to mobilize the hall as much as possible. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 91, People's Front – 53, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 2, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 2. Colleagues, I'll be back in a moment. The discussion's over. Now I'm going to put the vote back, and I'm going to ask everyone to come into the room when we talk about supporting the Ukrainian producer, that's this. It's alone. So I'm asking responsibly, Vladia, this is a very important law indeed, this is a principle position. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll be back. I would like to vote in favour of the return to the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (No. 6229). I ask everyone and everyone to vote carefully. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. We vote, colleagues, we vote, every vote. Please support, vote, support. [[11:58:14]] For 207 I'll put it again, a few people came in during the vote, please. Please, Mr. Stephen, you just walked in, mobilize your group, it's an important law. "Rebirth," please mobilize. "Paternality," give me as much as possible, give me as much as possible. Once again, Peter Poshenko's Block 93, People's Front 59, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 15. I think we can do more. Radical Party 2, Parenthood 10, Will of the People 4, Rebirth Party 0. Support me, colleagues, please, we're short a few votes. I'm asking you to take all the jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote, so don't leave. I would like to re-vote the proposal to go back to the draft Extractive Transparency Act (No. 6229). It's a European law, it's a Ukrainian law to support a Ukrainian producer. I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support everyone, colleagues. Anton, back everyone up. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Then your law will be the same. Please vote, please support, vote. Please support, vote, colleagues, for your return, please support. Vote. [[11:59:55]] For 209 There are no votes. Colleagues, will you back me up again? Please, one minute, Easy. If this position is supportive, we can do it at least for the second. One more time. Come into the hall, colleagues. Everyone, please come into the hall. One minute. A radical party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, when you talk about the transparency of the mining sector, most importantly, Ukrainians should know what they're paying for. When today the cost of producing U.S. gas is 1.5-2 thousand dollars, and people pay 9,000 dollars, and the authorities want to raise to 11,000, and we're closing the numbers where these are coming from. The cosmic cost of gas that no person in Ukraine can pay for, except for the oligarchs, where is your transparency?Oh, my God! People need a fair price for gas. You adopt laws that conceal the cost of gas production, allowing space tariffs to be imposed on Ukrainians, earning the most valuable oligarhams, by going into the pocket of every Ukrainian person. Your transparency is 45 million euros for Naftogazu! Your transparency is 300 percent of the profitability of Crushing. Whose account? On account of everyone in Ukraine. That's why we're for real transparency. Show yourself to be self - worth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u128	You're backing up the second, right? Oleg! You're backing up the second one? Another second. You'll support it. Okay. Please, Olya Belkova. One minute. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u129	A respected colleague, surprised by your explanation, because the Law on Transparency of Extractive Industries today provides information on who, where, when, and in a mandatory manner with high fines. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you talk to the drafters of the bill and you'll understand. So, Oleg Valeriyovich, I remind you that today all this information is closed. Surprisingly, one of our factions does not give a single voice in its entirety and has explained its worth. Nobody's hiding their property today, please write the Naftogaz entries, they'll give you. But this law applies to all companies, private companies, including those operating in the market that are not obliged to do so today. [[Applause]] But you can ask them in your own experience. Oleg Valeriyovich, we have done a lot of things together for gas production in Ukraine, but today you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u130	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll put it on the return page again. I'll put it on the second reading. If we don't, then we'll vote for the second one again, but, colleagues, this is our chance today, this is our great chance to support the Ukrainian gas sector, this is our chance to support Ukraine's energy independence. So I ask every voice, every voice, please. First. I bet on my return, then on my second reading. I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Transparency Act (No. 6229). Please vote and please support. Every voice, every colleague, every vote, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[12:04:03]] For 213 One more time, one more time. This is going to be a final one, colleagues, this is going to be a final one. So, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to go back to voting for the second reading of the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas. Who's in favour of returning to the vote for second reading 6229, please vote and please support. And colleagues, come into the hall, we vote. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[12:04:55]] For 221 Five votes, colleagues! Five votes. We can't destroy the law because of five votes. Guys, I'll put it back on. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Five votes, colleagues! I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking you to take your jobs and come into the hall. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of draft Law 6229 in the second reading. And I ask everyone to vote carefully during this vote. Please vote. Please support the return. Colleagues, every voice, we vote carefully and responsibly. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:06:03]] For 221 Colleagues, I'm putting the second reading back on. I'm going to remind you that the Radical Party during the performance said they were backing up the second. And I'm putting a draft of the Transparency in Extractive Areas Act (6229), re-reading the second reading. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. It's a compromise position. I'm asking you to back up your second reading 6229. Please, every vote please be supported. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:06:46]] For 222 That's not fair! Excuse me, everyone! Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention! That's not fair! We agreed that I would give the word and the second again. I'll give my word without any premeditation. I'm asking you to back me up. Colleagues, I propose once again: the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (6226) re-reading. This should be fair and fair in the hall. I'm asking you to support me. I'm asking you to vote on the second reading again. It's a compromise position. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. I ask you to vote. Helena, please vote. We vote second reading again. Vote. [[12:07:38]] For 230 Decision taken. I hope we can get 226 votes for the second time. And thank you for your honest stand in the debate. It's a shame we haven't been able to pass this law in general, but re-second reading gives us a chance. I now invite you to the message of Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy Drozdik called on the bureau to report that his card had not worked during the vote in favour of Bill 8296 amending some Ukrainian legislation to strengthen the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance. And he's asking you to count his voice to those who voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u132	Thank you. So now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:35, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. I would like to remind you that the next one will be the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 12:35. I would also like to be the head of the committee of Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich and the right-wing authors, the law in the second reading, so that we can get right to his consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. So, colleagues, before we go to the next question of 5495, I want to report that I've received a statement from two factions for a recess that they're willing to replace for a speech from the rostrum. And that's why three minutes is from the rostrum of the head of the committee of Mikola Knieżicky, and then we move on to the law. Please, Mr. Mikolo, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear friends! Yesterday, my colleagues, Taruta, Podowak, other members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Cultural Affairs, registered the Order on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. If you're watching, and you're all following the latest events in both the capital of Ukraine and Ukraine in general, you know that in Kiev the remains of Ancient Kiev were found during the construction of the office shopping centre. An ancient movement of the Potaic River was discovered, where Vladimir used to baptize the Kiev. Truly unique artifacts were found, seals of the Kyiv princes of the sons of Yaroslav the Wise, which show that this is where the modern, including the political, history of Ukraine began. This is a unique place that needs to be preserved by the Chinese, Ukrainian architects, historians, public figures have repeatedly addressed both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local self - government authorities with the request and demand to create an ancient Kiev museum on this site. All members of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality demand that we do so. We see what battalions are unfolding in the Kyiv City Council, elsewhere. We see activists proclaim hunger and at the cost of their own health willing to fight against destroying what is valuable not only to us, our descendants, but also to modern Europe. We therefore demand that, at least today, we put the vote and order of the day, the Supreme Council's decree on the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage in Kiev's Postal Square, supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality. This is a small decision, all we ask, is for the Cabinet of Ministers to take the necessary steps to preserve the historical and cultural heritage of the Postal Square and to take an object of cultural heritage to the coastal district of the medieval Kiev, in the post office of Kiev, to the State Register of Real Estates of Ukraine, under the category "Remembrance of National Meaning". In addition, the Kyiv City State Administration recommends that comprehensive public information measures be taken regarding the objective current situation regarding the modification of the cultural heritage object and the broad discussion, further steps to reduce social tension. I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to support this decree, this decree in the order of the day. I'm talking to my fellow MPs, we're really at a historic moment, because the artifacts that were found, what architects found during the excavations, are really unique for our time. And a serious national museum, which would be both Kiev and Europe, and all over the world, a museum where Ukrainian schoolchildren would study the foundations of our statehood, would definitely be much more necessary in this city than another office entertainment center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u135	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I fully support your position. And I'm going to suggest that the hall be placed in the order of the day session, but not now, but after considering the law, when there's full concentration in the hall, and when we see what's possible. In turn, I ask you to speak with all the heads of factions, a new decision that has just been registered so that everyone will be informed of its contents and the reasons why we should have the only position in the room. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. So we go to the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Laws on Conservation of Ukrainian Forests and Preventing the Illegal Export of Unprocessed Timber (5495). And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! I present to you Bill 5495 on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal removal of roundwood from Ukraine. The three main tasks of the bill were the copyright team led by Oleg Lášk. The first is a substantial increase in fines, the responsibility for illegal cuts and the imposition of criminal responsibility for the smuggling of roundwood, so that it is not simply a confiscation of the forest or a formal, symbolic fine, but a real prison term in the event of a disturbance in the moratorium on the export of forests. The point is that under five years in prison for smuggling forests and up to ten years in the event of a relapse. This stiff but absolutely just responsibility must stop those crazy smuggling schemes that unfortunately continue to flourish. The second task is to remove the slightest doubt as to the full compatibility of the moratorium on the export of roundwood, spirit and letter of the World Trade Organisation Agreement and the Association Agreement with the EU. The adoption of this law today is a guarantee of the preservation of the moratorium and the protection of Ukraine's positions in the international arena. The fact is that the State can impose temporary restrictions even under the terms of the EU Association Agreement or free trade with WTO, but in the event of internal restrictions on forest consumption. The government has not yet set such restrictions, so today Parliament must accept this important mission and carry out this task. So we're going to take all the latest warnings from international partners about a moratorium on forest exports. The third money is the key to banning the export of wood. Wood is now exported to Ukrainian forests abroad. Look what's going on. According to customs export statistics: from Ukraine, roundwood exports are zero, and in Europe, roundwood imports from Ukraine amount to 500,000 tons. It's smuggling, it's unfair, it's cynical, it's destroying the Ukrainian economy, it's stealing Ukrainian jobs abroad, it's unacceptable. This needs to be corrected today. And then they're offering us a loan from abroad, and then they're saying, "Cancel the moratorium on the exports of roundwood." No, no, not again. Let's put a dot in this law. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, I very much thank all committee members, co-authors, this is a very important bill for the committee, I have decided to recommend the adoption as a whole as a law. Second reading and generally as a law, with technical legal processing. The law has given me a point that, I think, is important. It refers to the incomplete definition of the formulation of criminal liability for the smuggling of fuelwood. I think you can make those remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u137	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u138	Thank you. These comments can be deleted by adding in the title of article 201-1 and in the first article of article 201-1 the words "as well as other timbers prohibited from being exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I ask with this clarification to accept, in general, the technical and legal drafting of the Law on the Criminalization of the Smuggling of Rainforests, on the Conservation of Ukrainian Forests. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u139	Thank you. So let's go to the right. By the same system, I'm going to be sounding the changes that are rejected, who wants confirmation, by raising their hand. So 1-a. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. Eight o'clock? 8th is Pisarenko's line. Come up and tell me which way. The 8th is a scribe's order. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 13th. 13th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. Twenty-one Andrey Lozový. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u140	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues, you've all seen these terrible photographs that are a historical disgrace when a map of the border of Ukraine-Romania is taken out of space or Google Map through the Carpathian border, and we see that they're protecting their forest and we're about to burn the ground. We do not care for one of our main riches, and we need to fight radically what our team is doing. I'm absolutely certain that in this room, there are quite a few conscious people who are willing to support our bill on the criminalization of roundwood smuggling, it's a state crime, it's a crime against children, it's against future generations. Because when we miss the smuggling of our forest, we take the Ukrainians back to normal in the future. The right to a normal life. That's why the forest has to be protected. But what a disgrace it is that the hall is now virtually empty. I call on the factions to take the example of Oleg Lachka, to mobilize people, and to have people in the workplace right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u141	Thank you. The next item is 31. The author does not insist. 35th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Which one? 31st. Wooden tree insists. Please, 31 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u142	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Head, dear colleagues, this is a very important law that aims to settle a number of issues. One question is that from the point of view of the International Trade Rules, we have the opportunity to maintain and maintain our moratorium. Second, the second position is that all those currently engaged in illegal activities and illegal logging should be punished. My amendment is that the illegal logging of trees and shrubs in the areas of more than one hectare of forest, including the reserve fund, and in other specially protected forests, be punished more severely. I would like to remind you that in Romania, in general, such crimes are almost likened to crimes against national security and defence, that is, at the level of terrorism. So I think there should be a very serious crime when it comes to illegal logging in protected areas, especially valuable forests. So I ask you to support my amendment and I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u143	Thank you. My colleagues, I'd like to point out that there's not much left, so I'd like everyone to come into the hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Mr. Victor, will you comment? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Jury, I thank you for your offer, for your constant attention to the issue of forest protection, but I would like to point out that the committee is working on a comprehensive, comprehensive edition, which not only establishes an extremely hard responsibility for illegal logging and smuggling of forests. I emphasize that the maximum legal responsibility is 12 years in prison, which is extremely harsh. Moreover, a distinct feature of the law is that there are rules of direct action and very clear criteria for both the extent of damage and the extent of responsibility that prevents or completely narrows the field for subjective treatment. So I'm asking you to support the committee's editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u145	Do you insist on voting? I am voting for 31 people’s deputies. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:54:15]] Z-70. The decision is not made. And once again, I urge all the national deputies to enter the hall, and in a few minutes, there will be a vote. So 35th right. The author does not insist. 36th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 40th. Don't insist. 41st. Don't insist. 42nd. [[B in m in s a l in]] 41st, Kiral. 42nd, Kieral. Let me give Kiral the first one, the 42nd one, and then I'll give you. 42nd. Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u146	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that, aside from banning the export of roundwood, we actually created some demand, some supply in the internal market. And there's a problem with this demand for this proposal to be properly distributed. This requires a really complex reform of the auction system in order for both small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to have access to this roundwood, not just large ones. That's the first question. As far as this 42nd amendment is concerned. We're actually talking about the fact that you can't export wood products, what's called alternative fuel, or value-added products. So this is actually contrary to the ideology itself and the substance of this bill. I don't understand why we should limit the entrepreneurial activity of enterprises that can produce quality products and export them. Or let's be clear: not all of 4401, but 44110000, for example, or we're going to subtract this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u147	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u148	Thank you, thank you. Dear Sergey Ivanovich, thank you for your attention to the issue of forest protection and the right proposals. First of all, I want to stress that we are now working, and I invite you to become a co-author, the Forest Market Act, which will destroy corruption and schemes in this field, which will make raw materials available to Ukrainian producers, regardless of the size of small, medium, large ones, so that real producers have raw materials. Of course, we are working together to allow Ukraine to export, not raw materials, but also furniture, pellets, and paper, and so forth. Your refinement on wood code is fuel-based, I think. If we go to 4401100000, it will remove any inaccuracies of treatment. So this clarification is acceptable, let's move together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u149	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u150	I'll make it clear, Sergei, before that. I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u151	So the committee head makes a statement, and then you don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u152	I'll make it up to you, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u153	Roger that. Please, Kozir. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u154	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? It is proposed that the 42th amendment of the Galasyuk People’s Deputies be clarified. I would like to point out that you do not want to be asked for confirmation, namely, to clarify the amendment. In order to avoid the risk of ambiguity in the treatment of code 4401, which we are supplementing in the second reading, Code 4401 Fuel Tree is proposed to detail from four characters to ten. In particular, provide the code 4401100000 to ensure that it is the wood itself, not the cod or the fuel briquettes, or the granules that are already the product of the processing, that will fall under the export ban. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u155	Thank you. I want to point out that we have already agreed that the committee head will read this in an editorial that will be compromised, I understand, and from the previous speaker, from you. Please, one minute, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u156	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear Mr. Boris, thank you so much for your proper clarification. I agree that in order to remove the risk of ambiguity of treatment, it is justified to detail code 4401, which is in my 42rd direction, to detail it from four characters to ten, and to specify code 4401100000. This will guarantee the ban on the export of fuelwood itself, but it will allow you to export, for example, pellets, processed from it without any variations. So I ask, Your Honor Mr. Head, in voting, to take into account that clarification to remove the observation of the legal administration that I have called, as well as the correction of Kozir and Kiral, which has been resounded to detail the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u157	Let's get this straight, Mr. Victor, that you're just going to read it in the closing word. Victor, I'm talking to you. Will you read it or should I just call it an amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u158	Please correct, in mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u159	Let's say in the closing statement how to vote. So, 35 revisions, Mrs. Zarzytko. But the 35th amendment is the Levchenko amendment. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I would like to emphasize that the issue of ecology is certainly a fundamental issue of forest conservation for future generations and so on. But I want to focus your attention on the fact that Ukraine has to focus not on raw materials and not on raw economics, but on processed products, as we have repeatedly proposed in the Radical Party faction -- buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians -- this should be the basic slogan for any bill that is passed in a respected hall. Because that's the only way that Ukrainians can get a job and a decent salary, regardless of the sector they're working in, any woodworking, any coal industry or metallurgy. Let's focus on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u161	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've had a review of the amendments. Now we're going to have the committee head's closing statement and we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I ask the heads of the committees, the heads of the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall, and in three minutes we'll move on to the vote. I now invite you to the closing statement of Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich. And I would like you to write 49 articles in the closing statement, as if we were to put it to the vote. Please welcome to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, first of all I want to thank you for having us on a moratorium on the exports of roundwood. In spite of the enormous criticism that came from abroad, despite internal political games and intrigues, this law was passed by Parliament, has entered into force and is now acting not only for the benefit of Ukrainian ecology, but also for the benefit of the Ukrainian economy, industry and the development of small businesses. Thanks to the moratorium only in the previous year, when it operated on the whole of all the village breeds, investment in the field has increased more than twice, it's an additional billion investments, not loans. During this time, the export of raw wood production increased by 4 billion dollars. The budget grew to nearly half a billion dollars. There's a lot of positive effects for the economy. Thousands, tens of thousands of jobs created all over Ukraine, are small and medium-sized businesses. This is the real support of Ukrainian producers and Ukrainian society. More laboring power in Ukraine means fewer people who will be forced to go abroad to disbelieve in order to earn a few hundred euros to direct their families. We have to give the Ukrainians a job worth their wages and prospects in their home country without emigration. That's the key question. This law needs to be adopted in order to remove the latest warnings from our international partners about the appropriateness of the moratorium on the export of roundwood to our international agreements. This law points to the point. This time. Two. He foresees an extremely harsh criminal responsibility for the smuggling of roundwood. Let's show today that we're fighting smuggling, not in words, but in fact, by adopting such real laws, changing the rules of the game. The smuggling of roundwood over the last five years has exceeded a billion dollars. Imagine. But it's only in one commercial position. What do we do when we have these lousy economic boundaries? It's draining our economy and making the government walk with an extended hand behind IMF loans. Let's put it in this point today at least in this area. Third, it's very important. No export of wood. We buy coal and gas abroad and sell wood there ourselves. But we can make pellets out of them. There's an Association of the Ukrainian Pellet Union, woodworking people who confirm that they're capable of processing the entire amount of wood inside the country in order to completely release this raw material here to the development of the Ukrainian economy, industry. When I'm driving through these woodworking businesses all over Ukraine, they're actually creating new jobs, they're actually raising wages. You and I have taken the very right course to continue today. Give me a minute, please. I have to read the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u163	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the second reading and in general as a law with technical and legal rights, as well as with the following clarifications. To remove the remark of the General Legal Office, please add in the title of article 201-1 and in the first part of article 201-1 the words "as well as other timbers banned from export outside the customs territory of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u165	Thank you. All right, give us a chance to read that we know 49 correct revisions, another minute of Halasyuk. And please come into everyone's room. Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. The other one. I propose to support the amendment of Kiral and Kozir, which concerns the clarification of my 42 revisions. In the 42th amendment, instead of code 4401, it is fourfold to specify the exact 10-digit fuel code. Fuelwood, namely: 4401100000. Please, with these clarifications, support the law in the second reading and in general with technical legal processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u167	Thank you. So, colleagues, I want to ask. Can I put up with that paper that Halasyuk read? She's counting yours, and yours is counting, right? Then I'm going to put it in that editorial that Halasyuk from the rostrum. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We've finished our discussions and we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies into the hall and invite us to take up jobs, and we'll move on to making a decision. So I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timbers (No. 5495), as amended by a transcript of the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, second reading and generally with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[13:07:53]] For 234 The law is passed. Now, colleagues, I want to remind you now that after the break two factions took a break, and the head of the Knieżicki committee suggested that we put in order a day's project now, the Order on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. This is the protection of the Ukrainian museum and this is the question that is to unite the hall, the decision registered only today, it is true. But if all the factions have been consulted, we can put it into the agenda and vote after lunch, and I ask everyone to support the proposal. Now I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that this decision is included in the agenda of the day session. Are all known, colleagues? Consultations with all of them? Can we vote? Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of today's session a draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev (No. 8541). And I ask everyone to support and vote. Vote, colleagues, support the Ukrainian Museum, please support, vote, vote in favour. [[13:09:40]] For-195 The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 65, National Front – 55, Opposition Block – 2, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 7. Guys, I'll put it back on. I would like to stress that this is the struggle of Ukrainian museummen against the builder, it is the support of the Ukrainian cultural heritage and the support of Ukrainian museum workers. And finally, this is the support of Kiev -- ancient Kiev and ancient Kiev. I'm asking everyone to support me, and I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda the daily draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev (8541). Please vote, colleagues, please support. We are voting for inclusion in the agenda today. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:10:52]] For-191 I'll put a third, final one. But, colleagues, I'm asking you, in this case, it's not about technical things. This is one of the most ancient regions of Kiev. When I was an archaeologist, I worked there for about a year to dig up the oldest period of memory. These monuments can be destroyed by a builder at risk today. And the question is that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is supporting, supported by Ancient Kiev, supported by Ukrainian museums, supported our history and culture. And so I'm asking you, colleagues, put down the political processes, support this decision. I'll do it again. I'm asking you to mobilize. The factions' heads have seen where we're missing, convince the MPs. Guys, I'm gonna put it back up again. I'm counting on backup. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. And I once again propose to vote to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session to be considered today's draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev (No. 8541). Back up, fellows! Vote, band, arranged, responsible. Please be supportive. For Ancient Kiev, for Ukrainian museums! Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:12:32]] For 213 Colleagues, I'll ask you one more time after the next question. Yeah, yeah, I'll ask you again after the next question. We're moving on to the next question. It's a bill. Draft Capital Markets Act and Organized Commodity Markets (7055). And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I ask everyone to support this proposal, please vote and please support the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:13:22]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich. Mr. Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, today we have a chance to change the situation in Ukraine's stock market, to comprehensively regulate the activities of commodity markets, and to launch effective use of derivatives in Ukraine. Having adopted the amended Bill No. 7055, which, after considering in the hall in February this year and receiving the comments, was completed in such a way that we agreed with all the key participants in their position. This is particularly true of the energy industry, as well as the updated edition takes into account the comments made by GNEU and the recommendations made in the Cabinet of Ministers. Compared to the previous edition, the bill has been finalized in such directions. In the course of long - term negotiations, a compromise is agreed with representatives of the energy industry on gas and electricity. For a given market, the law will enter into force in 2023. It also takes into account the proposals made by the European energy regulator, including the definition of rights derivatives, which provide for a delivery period of up to two days, they are not derivatives. It is clearly stated that this law does not extend to relations related to the formation of law enforcement outside the organized commodity market, that is, outside the market and on the basis of bilateral agreements. In general, the activities of commodity market participants will be regulated by special legislation on such commodity markets. In fact, we clearly distinguish the regulator's authority in commodity markets, which will only apply to the regulation of commodity markets. It is completely excluded from the changes to Ukraine's laws regarding the increase in the financial and institutional independence of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market, which was the most noticeable of the bill, I would like to point out that this is definitely no longer there. I'll also point out that we've supported the energy efficiency agency's proposed ability to issue special green bonds. I'll be representing the committee for the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u169	Okay. So Mr. Demczak will report both from the committee and from the author, so two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u170	The bill also provides for the protection of owners, bond holders, both corporate and municipal, and for the issuance of bonds from international financial institutions issued in bracelets. At the same time, the bill preserves its focus on the introduction of good international practices in Ukraine’s capital markets, including the latest legislative changes in the European Union. In addition, I would like to point out that a bill aimed at ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Association Agreement in part with the implementation of some 10 directives of the European Union. In concluding the speech, I'm sure you and I, as parliamentarians representing the interests of all Ukrainians, want Ukraine to rise from an inappropriate 150th place in the Economic Freedoms Rating, which is why it will contribute to the development of the stock market. By adopting this law, we will be able to create real effective markets of capital, energy resources, raw goods, where the price will be determined by the market by balancing demand and supply, reducing the risk of non-performance of contracts that will positively affect every Ukrainian enterprise. We expect special benefits for the agricultural market, where the manufacturer can count on the real price, the world price that will be formed in Ukraine, and he can get a fair income for his work. In practice, this means that Bill 7055 is a mechanism for investing in Ukraine, for creating a full stock market, for emissions not of garbage, but for real securities and for the wide use of derivatives and for the wider range of investors to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u171	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u172	In view of the above, I propose to support the committee's draft Ukrainian Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055).
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u173	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Waleria, please. No, it's not. From Self-Help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u174	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. This bill, if I am not mistaken, is already drunk in this session hall, and at various times we had a huge number of warnings, rights and. Indeed, by this day he has already ruled out rules regarding the state regulation of the securities market in part of the commission’s authority. Also now, this bill has already ruled out amendments to the Administration Act, excluding the rules on redress. It's probably working on this bill as a result of the joint work of both the commission and the parliamentarians. Therefore, I believe that the quality of the law on the part of the commission is the result not only of the work under this law but also of our subsequent laws relating to the status and authority of the commission itself. The standards described in this law have long been adopted in Europe since 2004. And the adoption of this law in the first reading will open the door for Ukrainian producers, open the door for the agricultural market for goods, for commodity markets. So I propose to uphold this law in the first reading, and I urge the Hall to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u175	Thank you. I hope the whole room supports the bill in the first reading. And, colleagues, here's a performance from Peter Dustock's Block. Solovaj is passing it on to Caplin. Please, Sergey Kaplin. And I ask everyone to enter the hall, colleagues, in two or three minutes there will be a vote. Please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of tens of thousands of farmers, farmers, to the adoption of this bill. In simple words, his point is that in the country of Ukraine, the fibula is going to be able to create the same kind of functional and protective market institution as in Chicago, for example, so that our agricultural producers can sell their products not because of traders who use their monopolistic status, their status, control their actual market and buy at a low price, but on market terms, when the entire market cycle is full. Another important ingredient. The following week, the Second Pension Insurance Act will be considered. The key discussion of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, is that, unfortunately, we have no premeditated institutional, financial premeditations, market sites to save the money that will be accumulated by the relevant non-state and state pension funds. And it's this bill and a bunch of others that create these institutional prerequisites. We're going to have courses that will eventually provide opportunities for large corporate and state-owned projects that will be able to make money that will be consolidated through appropriate pension institutions. So we're going to vote in favour of this bill because it creates conditions for a fair price for a farmer, it protects Ukrainian farmers. And we're finally taking a serious step towards developing an internal stock market and a stock exchange market. This is a real breakthrough and the first step towards the real economic integration of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u177	Thank you. It'll be a closing statement from Fatherland. And then we go to the vote. And I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. It's from Fatherland, Alexander Cugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u178	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Unfortunately, this bill, in the same way that we sent for work, returned to the hall. It is very sad that the banking committee does not legislate to protect the rights of consumers but rather engages in lobbyism in part of banks and a commission of securities. In this case, it's a question. For example, this bill stipulates that a multilateral trading system will regulate securities by means of a national commission. Look, we have everyone, every "star", who runs a government institution, wants to step out of influence so they don't agree with the Ministry of Justice so that their documents won't be seen in the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabin doesn't make public decisions anymore, we can't go in like we did in the Supreme Council. Nazicomy receives too many powers of regulation and influence on the organizational commodity market. The idea of delegating functions is also viewed as questionable. Indeed, for public associations, self - regulating organizations, there is indeed such a rule in the European Commissions. But there, for example, the Chamber of Commerce is divided into branches. For example, part of the Chamber of Commerce in Italy has the right to control and issue licences to all construction organizations. That may be the case. But, excuse me, as stated in your bill, it is stipulated that someone is quick to regulate, understanding that this law can be passed, and then all other market participants are obliged to enter into someone's organization, not created from below, as it is formed in European countries. This law does not have the right to adopt the Supreme Council and to waste time, which is very important for Ukraine, on its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u179	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. As long as the MPs come in, I'll give the reporter one minute to make the speech. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me and I want to give you a replica of the last meal I've ever had. We're very sorry that the political power of Fatherland doesn't include any of their representatives in our committee, and they don't go through the bill. And once again, I want to make sure that the bill protects consumers by means of corporate municipal international organizations, the whole block is written down. In addition, this law allows an investor to enter Ukraine today, sell currency in the morning, trade in bracelets in our commodity markets, in derivative markets, and then in the evening, sell, buy currency and exit. We can create a volume of investments here that is equal to the banking sector. So I ask you very much for the responsibility to respond and vote, and for the support of the first reading today as a basis. If any comments are constructive, we will consider them as a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u181	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction was by Alexander Kugel, and I'm informing you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, I'm asking you to take the job. And I'm voting on the draft Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055) as a basis. Just on the basis of that, we can adjust to the second reading. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I ask you to support Bill 7055 as a basis. Vote. On the ground, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:27:46]] For-187 The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 85, People's Front – 50, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 9, non-fractional – 10. Colleagues, I'll put you back. Tell me, Mr. Ruslan, how should we proceed? He'll be rejected otherwise. Let me put it on the committee for further work. Could such an offer be supported, Mrs. Alexander? Mrs. Alexander, to the committee for further work, can she be supported? Well, I'll make all the suggestions under the Rules. So here's the next offer. I'm voting on the proposal: the draft Capital Markets Act and regulated markets (7055) to send to the Committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:29:11]] For-195 The third proposal is to return the subject to the right of a legislative initiative for further development. And I think that would be the right position to support at least that formulation. So, I'm asking you to take your seats, please prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the proposal that the draft Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055) should return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every vote, we vote. [[13:30:08]] For 196 Bill 7055 has been rejected. So, colleagues, I remind you, we didn't get a few votes before this inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. I'll put it again, colleagues, and I ask everyone to support the inclusion of the day session in the agenda of the Order on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage (8541). Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support me, colleagues, every voice. Don't leave the hall. Please be supportive. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[13:31:19]] For 210 Colleagues, there are few votes missing. Can you explain to me what the discussion might be about the preservation of Kiev's history? Please come into the hall. I'm asking the National Deputies, who are in the beds, to enter the hall, to prepare for the vote. No! No! If we go into this discussion, we'll lose our votes. I ask everyone to come into the hall and participate in the vote. Stop for a moment the political debate between you, support this position. Every voice. I hope for all the factions and groups. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Order on the Conservation of Historical Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. 8541 in the agenda so we can look at it today. Voting, supporting. We vote carefully and in agreement, please support, vote. [[13:32:41.]] For 218. We didn't make it. Okay. Colleagues, when your laws go, I invite everyone to their seats, and it's just cynicism, when other laws, you leave the hall. There's got to be some kind of relationship, mutual respect. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote and support everyone, I'll read the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 83, National Front – 57, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 17, Fatherskina – 9, Will of the People – 2. "The will of the people," give me more votes. "Rebirth" is 8. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session after lunch of the draft Decision on the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. All patriots of Kiev, all patriots of Ukraine, please vote carefully, every vote is important. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote in agreement, Logwinsky, vote. Please vote, please support. Gregory, we have a vote. Please support, vote, vote, vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:34:23]] For 224 Two votes. Once a voice came in, and two of them came in. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall right now. We have 226 votes in our room. It is important that everyone is in place and everyone participates in the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Everyone, please take the job. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda for a decision today's draft decision on the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage in the Postal Square in Kiev. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and I ask you to vote. You see, every voice has weight, and that's why I call on everyone to vote. Arthur, please, every voice! Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We stand, we vote. [[13:35:41]] For 239. Decision taken. Hello, colleagues, after lunch we'll discuss. Colleagues, but during the vote, we agree that I will also put in place the day-to-day session a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the criminalization of smuggled goods. This was the agreement that gave us the votes. And now I'm just putting the day-to-day session of 8543 criminalizing smuggling, just putting it in the order of the day session. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of draft Law 8543, this is criminalization of smuggling. We've been discussing it for a few days, and I think we're going to vote by group and put it into the agenda of the day. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:56]] For 135 The decision is not made. It's a big break. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. The factions? Please show by factions. Peter Dustenka's Block 44. People's Front - 55, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 2, Radical Party - 14, Fatherland - 6 Will of the People - 1, Rebirth Party - 3. And we, colleagues, move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws governing the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266-d). And I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:37:56]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u182	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, by Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 246/61 of June 19, draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to regulate the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, submitted by the People's Democratic People's and other National Deputies, aimed at rereading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality is determined to redraft the proposed draft for a re-first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the right to legislative initiative and to submit it to the Supreme Council for consideration. The comments given by the National Deputies during the consideration of the bill were taken into account by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality. At its meeting on July 2, the Committee decided to approve the amended draft law and to submit it for re-reading in accordance with article 115 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be adopted in the first reading and in general. I would like the MPs to support Bill 8266-d in the first reading and in general. What suggestions were taken into account? First, two key proposals were made during the consideration of the bill by the Supreme Council and the people's deputies. Alexander Cugel’s observation that the project actually provides for the Fund’s control over international grants. Deputy Kaplan's warning that the bill proposes that the Fund's Supervisory Board be given the right to manage the funds in violation of the State Procurement Act. The GNEU offers and warnings from members of our committee are also taken into account when considering the project. What was added or removed from the project? It's added that no relationship with the grantors, Mrs. Alexander, is what you're talking about that can't be the basis for control of both the fund and its activities, including the implementation of the grant agreement with the payee. It has been established that the fund controls the implementation of grants on its own and that there are appropriate mechanisms that increase the guarantees of the fund's independence from any person, including private investors. Removed standards that allowed the fund to set up its own order of prior payment for goods, jobs, services.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u183	One minute to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u184	This is Kaplin's offer. The definition of the term "project" as proposed by the GNEU has been clarified. The Fund will be able to fund Mincult on its own, to fund certain socially important cultural and artistic measures in cases provided for by law or approved Cabinet of Ministers by the Programme of Cultural Development, and such a program will be approved by the Government annually in accordance with the Cultural Act. A number of other refinements and terminology reconciliations have been introduced. So we've actually completed this bill. I very much ask my colleagues to come into the hall. As I said before, our activities and support for culture are completely blocked. If we support this bill, Ukrainians who provide cultural projects both in the West and in the East, local self-government authorities, will be able to support the country's proper support. Please join us and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u185	Thank you. So, from the head of a committee that can return to its place of work, we've heard that the profile committee has worked very carefully on the bill before re-reading, taking into account all these remarks that have been made by deputies from different factions during our first discussion. I'm asking you to sign up for the presentation of factions from the factions of deputies. Please sign up. Please, I take it Mr. Kiral is speaking to her colleague Mrs. Irina Podowak. Please, Mrs. Gorgeous. Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will support this bill as a whole. It is indeed essential, it is carefully worked out to ensure that our central executives have no doubts and no further questions in the implementation of all grant programmes and projects to be financed by the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. In large numbers, we have to understand one thing that the unlocking of the work of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund is looking forward to an extremely large number of different environments that are involved in the development and promotion of Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian art. So I ask you from my faction, from the Self-Help faction, to support this bill and to vote for it as a basis and as a whole to enable the work of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Let me draw your attention to yesterday's huge grant fair, for example, where the Ukrainian Cultural Fund presented its capabilities and mechanisms to support millions of Ukrainian creative workers. That's why we're going to support the committee, and we urge you to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u187	Thank you very much for the faction's position, Mrs. Irina. And we invite you from the faction of the B.P.P. of the people's deputy Kaplan. Please, Mr. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to an example of effective classical cooperation between the National Deputy and the Committee. A few weeks ago, you and I were looking at this bill, and then I was saying that it might be because of indiscretion, because of the irregularity of standardization, a standard that is corrupt. This rule has been taken care of, we have an ideal document for which we do not feel ashamed to vote. At the same time, I would like to stress that this bill, and I am convinced that in ten to fifteen minutes, the law should evolve as well as the fund. In Germany, where such a fund has been established for six or four years, and it does not receive state funding at all and earns money through highly innovative system-based cultural projects, which, income from which comes from the support of the Pension Fund, the State Budget. We have much bigger, I'm sure, cultural potential because of the talent of our artists. And I'm sure we can take all the necessary measures to modernize the Ministry today, all the professional institutions and all the professional bodies that care about culture. And culture today, I'm sure, should, should and will make money to support our state. And we are immediately ready with our committee in the area of protection of social rights, the pension rights of cultural workers to unite their efforts and with the profile committee, and to ensure that special attention and respect for these workers are displayed today. Culture will be a leader in Europe, Ukrainian culture will earn more money to the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u189	Thank you for the faction's position, and for rightly pointing out that the committee was working on the law for the re-reading. Colleagues, several factions failed to sign up for the performance. Please, from the Radical Party, present the position of honorary colleague Andriy Lozový, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u190	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Do you care if Ukrainian culture is treated as if it were a side? Our iron team has always stood up for the protection of Ukrainian culture, because it's one of the primary foundations of statehood. At the same time, we are in pain, and we demand to raise wages for cultural workers. Why for the judges, for the prosecutors, is the money there, why for the officials in the holdingmonoplyes space wages per million dollars and more per month they get, think about it, there's money and there's no theater for the workers? How long have I fought and thank you for your letter that you appreciate the coworkers of the Harkow Opera Theatre who haven't been paid a salary in months. Why is there no State support for artists? Why is the catastrophic underfunding of extra - school education in the fields of culture, art schools, musical, theatrical groups? Why is it that a country that has such geniuses both in movies and theaters and in art and in music that they are all looking for where to find a penny to feed their children, to feed their families? Only that nation will be strong, where there will be strong power. As we suggest we abandon the position of Prime Minister and a clear, hard presidential vertical. And when the President for the support of the Lord God and the Ukrainian people is Oleg Lazko, every cultural worker will have a decent salary and will protect Ukraine on the cultural front. It will work for Ukraine to thrive, work for our children to grow up with intellectuals, not the way that society is actually debilitating today. Protect the culture! Let's defend Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u191	Please, the will of the people, Sergey Shahov. The position of your political group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u192	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues! It's a very important law. And the grain that has been thrown into the land of culture grows all along the colossus. Today, when I go to my district in Luhansk, in all the villages, the closed palaces of culture are destroyed in fact. Culture needs to be raised in our country. We have to raise our children’s wages today, and we have to raise our children’s culture. And that's why "Our Land" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u193	Colleagues, I want to look at other factions that may not have been able to register. "The People's Front," "The Fatherland," "The Opposition Block," doesn't want to speak? So there will be a vote in a minute. I'm asking you to come back to the session room right now. Dear colleague, I ask you to sum up the discussion. Let's give this a minute to get our colleagues together. Please. Colleagues, please return from the towers to the session room in a minute, and there will be a vote. Please, Mr. Knieżicki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, you remember how we reported and rejoiced that Ukraine signed, ratified the "Creative Europe" Treaty when money from European funds enters Ukraine. This has happened, and it's very good that the actual management of Creative Europe and the Ukrainian Cultural Centre is the same management that works absolutely transparently and effectively and opens up access for Ukrainian artists not only to Ukrainian state funds, which is very important, but also to the European funds that go into Ukraine. I very much ask you to come into the hall, support and unlock the financing of Ukrainian culture. This is really a very important question not just for us, but for our children, for our voters, for all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u195	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you to return to your jobs, and there will now be a vote in favour of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to regulate the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Let me remind you that re-reading is an advanced committee project. And as we heard during the discussion, all the factions and MPs who had comments to the bill on their first reading confirmed that the committee had carefully revised the bill. I'm putting this bill to the vote in just a few seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u196	So, colleagues, take up jobs, go into the hall. I'll bet. Take up jobs, please. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266-d) with the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Every wheel, every colleague, every voice. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:52:15.]] For 222 Four votes. We didn't make it. Don't leave the hall. Go back to the hall, please, colleagues. Well, during the vote, well, it takes a little bit of responsibility when members of the coalition don't vote. I'm asking you to take your jobs and ask everyone to come into the hall. So I'm going to make the first suggestion: go back to the 8266-d draft. Please vote, please support the return. There were four votes missing, so each voice has a weight. Please vote for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:53:15]] For 219 The voices are shrinking. We didn't make it. The voices are melting in front of the eyes. So, colleagues, I'm going to put a return vote on this. I ask both members of the committee and the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. Please invite me to the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 8266-d, please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice. The voices were faint. I ask everyone to take part in the voting carefully. So, please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:54:34]] For 231 We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 8266-d on the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote. Careful, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:55:05]] For 233 The law is passed. And, colleagues, let's move on to the information policy cluster. I'm reporting that I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Let's start the discussion, colleagues, and finish after the break. So I'm asking you to support the proposal to review the first draft of the Information Policy Act, 7291 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:55:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u197	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a very short and simple bill. I'm asking you very much not to disagree so that we can make a quick decision, because it actually consists of two paragraphs, but it's very important for thousands of printed editions and in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation, conducting hostilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u198	I'm sorry, Vika. Don't leave the hall! Colleagues, everyone back to the hall, the vote will be in a few minutes. Please return to the hall. Please, Mrs. Victoria. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u199	Thank you very much. This is about printed editions in both the Lugansk and Donetsk regions and Ukrainian editions throughout Ukraine. Today, these printed editions are actually dying. You know the real situation, we have a critical situation with a printed press. Why? Because, on the one hand, the price of paper is going up a lot. What's more, we're bringing paper from Russia, in fact, the monopoly on paper supply is the Russians today who are raising these prices. Next. You realize that in villages these newspapers are sometimes not the only source of information for people. Today we are approaching the process of shutting down analog television. If we do that, in the villages these newspapers will be left with the only source of information, in the very deep villages. And, you know, Crucifixion is acting today as if it's not a state-owned enterprise, and it's a huge private enterprise that actually raises costs. Just imagine the figures, in the last four years since 2014, do you know how much the Crushing tariffs have increased, is that me with the dollar rate? 165 per cent for the delivery of printed publications. And today, Crucifixion is going to continue to raise the price of delivering newspapers several times. I would strongly advise less on sponsoring, like walking the red tracks on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u200	Please, 30 more seconds, just then we won't be gathering people, Mrs. Victoria, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u201	Ever since the committee. So a huge request now to the hall. We enter the election campaign period, each of you, of course, want to print and display your position in the printed press. Don't spit in the eyes of these local newspapers today, let them survive. To see means to vote a moratorium on promotions for Ukrainian newspapers and for all newspapers in Donetsk and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u202	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u203	On behalf of the committee to vote on the basis and in general, we have now agreed with our colleagues. There is a binding bill that is next, and we will also ask him to vote on the basis as a whole. So I ask all factions to unite and support the Ukrainian printed press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u204	Colleagues, a very short bill. If we go into this discussion right now, we just don't have any votes. Colleagues, me. Tell me, which of the factions insists? Can I just give you one minute? One minute at a time. Colleagues, this is our internal arrangement here in the hall. If we come in now. I have two, as they say in Galicina, elections: or we vote after lunch. Yeah, otherwise we'll lose our votes and crash the bill. I want to ask the committee head. Victoria, let me do it this way: I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down, I'm going to write it down after lunch, I'm going to finish the discussion and then I'm going to put it to a vote. If we didn't have a discussion, we could do it now, but if we talk about it, we'll just lose votes by 2:15. Is that accepted? The committee, the factions, is that okay? Because I'm saying if we didn't have a discussion right now, we're just talking. Then I ask you to record: two in, two in, two in. So I want to consult with the committee head. Are we starting a discussion now or after lunch? Now, right? From Self-Help, Babak Olenna. Danchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, certainly in support of the development of state information policy and information policy, I have a question, and on whose account we will do so. Now there's a huge campaign against the fact that there's no pay in the post office, they're rebelling against wages, nothing to do, they're being cut short. And now we want to ban Crucifixion from raising tariffs and working below their worth. Let's ask the postmen and the coworkers what they're thinking right now. Last week on the committee, we were looking at this question, and a huge number of mailmen came in with what they were cut short because there was no pay. The state is already guilty of $1 billion in fines for delivering the periodic press. What are we doing now? So, on the one hand, we're not populistally raising tariffs, on the other hand, we're releasing postmen and coworkers. Sorry, the Supreme Council has no right to interfere with business activity. It puts Crucifixion in unequal conditions. And so, in making these decisions, no one's going to have to pay their pension, as it is now in the villages. You can't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u206	Thank you. Colleagues. It's from Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u207	Dear friends, when I consider this issue, I would like us to pay attention not to populist and propaganda categories but to economic categories. Let's see how much the paper or the magazine costs. That's not more than 15-20 percent, 20 is a critical ceiling. And that's why the quality of our printed and television products, printed products, is not affected by the decision that we are going to make with you today. I would like to stress the need for serious control and monitoring of how the state information machine works. We've created the Ministry of Information a few years ago, and unfortunately, so far, none of us have had a report on how the funds were spent, whether there was a software project in this ministry, and how much information policy is still involved in the creation and functioning of government institutions on this issue. Another important ingredient. It's probably for the people of the gray zone, and I'm there very often, and for the occupied part of our territory, it's going to be a much more priority and important view of them in the area of pensions, the work of the employment center and other programs, exclusively of a social nature. When a higher pension or a higher salary comes, believe me, it's a much stronger signal than any newspaper or magazine that even comes free. So the principle of the position of parliamentarians should be that we finally get a quality professional institution, a government institution that will deal with these problems. The other one. So that we can work together between the committees to achieve the efficiency of the work of this institution and that the information product that we deliver there is quality and it has an appropriate, expected and relevant filling for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u208	Colleagues, pay attention! I want to make my decision and consult. We'll continue the discussion. But I have one warning. If we enter the vote at 14:15, we can fail it. Now, in the middle of this discussion we're going to continue to give a word, I'm just going to conduct a rating vote for support, so that we know whether we should continue the discussion after lunch or finish now. I ask you, I have the right to do so, and I ask everyone to vote in support, and I guarantee that I will then be able to speak. So I'm conducting a rating vote to support Bill 7291. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and vote in favour. Please vote, please support. Vote, rating vote. [[14:06:19]] For-163 So now I'm going to call it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Attention, one more performance and then I'll break up. Colleagues, attention, attention! Stop! Guys, listen to me carefully. We'll have to leave some of the performances behind after lunch. And there's no problem now or after lunch. We're gonna need a couple of gigs while there's mobilization in the hall. And there's no problem with that. I'm about to give a performance. After lunch, I'll give both Rybchina and Will of the People and Rebirth and the Opposition Block. This will be right and it will be adequate. Now the Radical Party, everyone else, after lunch. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team supports that Ukrainian citizens, especially those living in rural areas, the elderly, have the opportunity to receive a printed press so that it can be available to them at a price, because for many of these people it may be the only source of information. The radio in the villages was cut off by taped wires, and scraped everything on scrap metal. There's a wolf sitting in a country house, there's no neighbors, they're out. And there's no newspaper, no TV, no radio. These are our people! And they should receive information about the activity of the Ark and about the inaction of power, resulting in the Ukrainians being deprived of the capacity to meet their basic needs. But at the same time, I'd like to tell everyone who's against the postmen, who's trying to humiliate these heroic, mostly women who are tens of miles a day carrying a heavy bag on bicycles and snows and rains and summers and winters. And these postmen are like the way of life for many people in rural areas, for many pensioners. I'd like to ask the postmen to be treated with great respect, they're very hard to work for. We have to pay the dues, the core funds are being updated, new cars are being introduced, and so on, but that's not enough, the key is raising wages so that the person gets a decent salary for his job. And we're going to support a bill that will allow you to keep tariffs for the delivery of the press, but we're going to demand in the Final Positions to write down the government's obligation to anticipate the payment of salaries to the postman, because tomorrow it's going to work out that there will be no pay, there will be cuts, and as a result, our pensioners will not be provided with pensions, there will be no newspapers and everything else. Get your hands off the mail! With respect to miners, with respect to postmen, with respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m0.u210	So, colleagues, I want to let you know, after lunch, we'll continue our conversation. The first is from "The Fatherland" Rybkin, then from "The Will of the People," and "The Opposition Block" raised his hand. And in that order, I'm going to give the performances after lunch. And I hope we can mobilize and adopt this important law. Now I have to call it a break. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work and to continue the consideration of Law 7291. Thank you.
