ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your seats. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that we are now moving on to the question of choosing a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Our time is very tight. We have to vote first for the discharge order of the Central Electoral Commission and then select a new composition of the CLTC. We have a very tight time. And so I'm going to ask as soon as we talk about the decision, to support its consideration of the reduced procedure. Otherwise we just can't make it. And I ask everyone to be as concise as possible. Colleagues, we were actually able to unlock the election of the Central Electoral Commission. My law has given us the opportunity to get representation from all factions. Now I'm asking for all the discipline and work in the hall. Everyone, please come in and take your jobs. So, colleagues, please hold the registration. [[16:01:40]] 375 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to report that I have received two applications for recess. I'll give you my word. And once again, I urge and stress that we need to work very effectively and in a very concise way. The first statement is ready to be replaced, Alexander Shevchenko. Then the application is "Fatherland", "Help Self", Lechchenka's speech. Please, three minutes, Chevchenko. Get ready, Lechchenka. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. In these moments, Buxoli and PBS search is under way. He does not like the President when he is told the truth about his attitude toward the people of Ukraine on direct air. I don't like Mr. Dusty that Shevchenko is telling the truth and decided to run to the presidents of Ukraine. Mr. Dusty, we're not afraid of your search and search teams. If you think me and my friends are gonna shut up like this, it's not gonna work. This is just the beginning. This is the beginning of your end, your stay in power, and the theft of Ukraine, Mr. President. Today we have witnessed a speech by President Prashenko, who was trying to tell us how unique and patriotic he is. I want to tell you what the Ukrainian people think of you, Mr. Poshenko. You're a criminal. You are a collaborator and traitor to Ukraine. You keep making money in Russia and Putin won't touch you. He mocks your greed and kleptomania. These factories. Your factories are buying raw materials in Russia, Russia. You and your buddy Medvedchuk made a monopoly on the sale of Russian gas and gas. I'm sure Kurchenko would be jealous of this scheme. You confiscated it. You didn't confiscate any Russian businesses in Ukraine. Instead, Russia confiscated everything in Ukraine and the Ukrainians in Crimea, but it allowed you to sell your ship repair plant for tens of millions of dollars. You give Russian FSB, you give Russian FSB patriots, while Ukrainian patriots sit in Russian prisons. You're stealing a military budget while Ukrainians and volunteers give everything they can to the front. You're willing to sell Ukraine to foreigners while you're choking and killing the Ukrainian business. You and your firm, Gonnaareva, have destroyed Ukraine's banking system. In order to raise assets from the Deposit Guarantee Fund with another dealer, Mooring for cash and stolen money. You've made people beggars by underestimating their deposits in banks by increasing the dollar rate four times. But it has not been signed for three years by Parliament, the Law on Monetary Guarantee of Human Investments and Loans in Course 8. Your policy in Natzbank and your peers have made it impossible to issue a loan no less than, more faithfully, to lend under 18 percent of the year-olds, at a time when the state Eximbank is funding your business under 2 percent of the year-olds in the bracelet. You and your gang that you brought to the state posts, Mr. President, are criminals. You'll never be president of this country again. People hate you. And for everything you have done and continue to do, you will be accountable to the people of Ukraine and under the law of Ukraine. You, Mr. Poshenko, will be in prison, and everything you have robbed will be confiscated for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Praise be to Ukraine and its supporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u3	Now from the factions of Fatherland and Self-Help. Here comes Yuri Lewchenko, 3 minutes, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u4	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people, I'd like to address everyone who's listening and looking at us right now, about the absolute shrug and the lie that took place during the lunch break, when everyone in the room under the beautiful slogans of cancelling the parliamentary immunity was actually made absolutely reverse -- the drag or even the impossibility of canceling the parliamentary immunity. You know, despite the fact that both Poshenko and his faction and the other members in most of the elections promised to undo the inviolability, none of this was done until the Ukrainian national deputies, under the pressure of last spring, collected 150 signatures and registered the corresponding bill behind my authorship. The bill was registered on July 19, 17, 6773. Then he was stopped. Then in October 17th, under the pressure of the people again under these walls, rather than supporting this bill, he illegally introduced his Bill 7203, exactly the same, with only one very large difference, the distinction that applied to the taking of effect of this bill. He was illegally registered here, the Supreme Council apparatus illegally registered and was illegally enforced by the bill. So that's how these two bills are different. My bill proposes that the MP's immunity be lifted immediately. The powder bill proposes that this law take effect as of January 1st, 20th. And what does that mean? That means two things. First of all, in any case, this change will not apply to the next call of the Supreme Council. Because the next calling will be under the existing Constitution. But even if, even if we assume that there will be no one, that even if there is such a desire to change it now, the problem is that the bill prescribes this rule of validity in "Transitional positions" rather than in the body of the Constitution, which allows it to be suspended by a simple majority -- 226 votes, it will not be necessary for 300 in the new parliament. That's what happened before the break. Instead of supporting both decisions, allowing the hall to decide on both drafts, this room voted 270 votes in favour of the powdery bill, shulerian, which did not actually take away the inviolability, but instead gave insufficient votes for the MP's bill. And I wonder who didn't give enough? In the first project, 106 votes to BPP, 67 votes to BPT for the second project, 17 votes to the Radical Party for the first project and 2 votes to the Radical Party for the second project. So, dear Ukrainian people, I'm addressing you now. Follow carefully who is lying to you year after year about removing parliamentary immunity and who really wants to change it. And I'm talking to Mr. Paris, who is illegal, even though he's always put to a full vote ten times, this time he didn't want to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u5	Ten seconds to call the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u6	I'm talking to you. You always put 20 votes when you need it. Many MPs will say their cards didn't work. Put this order to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u7	Thank you. Thank you for the constructive criticism. So, colleagues, we're moving on to the Central Election Commission, a colleague. In order for us to be able to fully update CEVC, we need to consider the first decision to release members of the Central Electoral Commission by means of a reduced procedure. My colleagues, I'm sure both Ukrainians and our partners are waiting for our decision. I'm asking for all the work done. And I ask everyone now to support my proposal that the draft Decision on the discharge of the members of the Central Electoral Commission (4789-d) should be considered on a reduced basis. Please vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone who's interested in updating the CBC. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:10:11]] For-183 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina. Prepare for the report by Prince Ruslan Petrovich. And I call for flexibility and a reporter and a co-rapporteur. Colleagues, with your permission for 30 seconds, I'm not going to add, keep an eye on the weather, or we won't be able to make it. Please keep track of the time, I won't add 30 seconds. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! According to article 85, part one, paragraph 21, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for exemption from the post of members of the Central Electoral Commission in connection with the completion of their term of office. First. Astach's Tamara Valerian. The other one. Danilevsky Yuri Mikolaiovich. Third. Jewish Igor Grigorovich. Lukas Tetjana Leonidina. The Mageri of Andrija Josephovich Odessauca Alexander Kuzmich. Hendowski Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich. Osenko-Black Jeanne Ivanovna. Chupachina Alexander Mikhailovich. The Sweden of Julia Volodymyrna. The Shelest Alexander Mikolaiovich. Sheridan Valery Eugenovich. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u9	Thank you for the constructive report. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to say that, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered at its meeting on 18 April 2018 a corresponding submission by the President of Ukraine in exchange for the release of individual members of the Central Electoral Commission. Just now, the list of members of the commission who are being asked to release me, with your permission, will not be repeated. The only thing I can say is that the committee came out of the next question. According to article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is to appoint and release members of the Central Electoral Commission at the request of the President of Ukraine. Part six, articles, also discusses this. More specifically, article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. According to part one and part two of article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission are suspended in connection with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release them. At the end of the term of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, they are to be released. With this in mind, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice supported the President's appointment to release the members of the Central Electoral Commission individually and invited the Supreme Council to decide on this issue by way of a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. From Fatherland, Sergey Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u12	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Fatherland will no doubt support this draft decision. But I'd like to say a little bit about something else. You know, I'd like to thank the members of the CDC that we are now releasing. I don't want to thank those who have already been thanked by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, by giving national awards to the same people who are fully recorded in the "black accounting" of the Party of Regions and who have received money for counterfeiting the elections. I would like to thank those honest and decent members of the Central Electoral Commission who, in principle, had the opportunity to all work as ministers of the economy in the government to Janukovic, but they were people of principle, they held a position in the CBC, they were publicly defending the rule of law, they were upholding the legal requirements at the time of the opposition. This is, first of all, Andrew Josephus Mager. Andrew, thank you for your work, for your honest work at the C.V.C. This is Jeanne Ivanovna Usenko-Black. Jeanne Ivanovna, you're honest, you're a decent person, you're a big letter professional, you can hold a punch. I know you were supposed to go to work like some people in the Yanukovich government, but you, once again, are an honest and decent person. This is Julia Victorian Sweden. This is Igor Grigorovich Jidenko. Igor, you're a serious expert, you're an honest and decent person. So I think we need to get rid of all the members of the CTC that are being released today. Yes, there were Collaborators with the Yanukovic regime, just as they were in other areas. But I say again, I thank those honest and decent members of the CEVC who held the blow that protected the rights of people who followed the principles of fair elections. And once again, "Fatherland" supports the ruling. But even they, by the way, finished their term of office almost four years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Sažko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u14	I give the word to Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u15	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! What's going on now? You release, you release by your decision, the previous composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Obviously, this was supposed to be done, we had to change the composition of the CBC, we had to change the election system, by the way, you're not going to do this clearly yet. But what you do next is you change the Central Election Commission Act, you add two members of the Central Electoral Commission based solely on political relevance. If we are living with you in a European state with the rule of law, there should be no political relevance in the rule of law. There is no relation to the right to add two more candidates to the Central Electoral Commission. You made a contractor in this room, which you call "the unlocking of the process of electing members of the Central Electoral Commission." All that's going on today is clearly the preparation for the fake election by President Dustenk. You voted today a few changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll give you a little example: the United States has made only 27 changes in its history to the Constitution, you have, instead of running, and the President, instead of running the work of the Constitutional Commission and actually making a real constitutional reform in the State, you've done everything the other way around: you're taking off certain moments and you're trying to make a political pyar out of them. I think that reforming the country and reforming the Constitution will be a new President and a new Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u16	Thank you, colleagues. So the speeches are done, and we can move on to making a decision. And I invite everyone in the room to prepare for the vote, colleagues. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies to the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that we are moving on to a decision-making process. And I emphasize that we will not be able to choose a new composition of the CLTC without voting for the release of the members of the Central Electoral Commission. So this is a responsible vote that unlocks the selection of a new CBC. So take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the draft decision on discharge as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (No.4789-d) as a whole. Please vote and support the release of the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote, colleagues, each vote please, vote. Please be supportive. [[16:19:36]] For 278 It's been decided. And so, colleagues, we can move on to the long-awaited stage -- the question of appointing members of the Central Electoral Commission. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the members of the Central Electoral Commission to serve on behalf of the President of Ukraine. The rules clearly define the list of issues and how to choose: a statement by a representative of the President, a report by the committee head, questions from factions and groups. So every faction and group will be able to ask questions to any of the members of the CLTC or to all of them and their answers, I plan, it'll take 16 minutes. Then, statements from factions, i.e. each faction will be able to speak. And the final stage is the performances by the national MPs. Or six, or nine minutes (let's see how it goes in time) and accordingly make a decision. I stress to you that the vote will be for each candidate separately, and so the vote will also take about 10-15 minutes, and in fact we should go through each vote separately. I'm counting heavily on solidarity in the hall that all candidates will be supported, and the increase in CLTC members is largely aimed at ensuring that all of the factions submitted are supported. And, colleagues, then, if two national MPs are elected, it will be necessary to vote in favour. That's the path that we're going to have to go together in an hour of 40. So let's get started, fellows. And I invite you to the statement of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u17	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application on the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission: Basalai's Alla Valentine's Day, Bernack Natalia Ilarionowna, Werbensky Mikhail Georgievich, Eustigneus Andrija Sergiyovich, Ephraim's Irina of Alexandria, Yellow Olga Mikolayevna, Konopolski Oleg Mikolaiovich, The Kustow Light of Santa Claus, The Lotuch of Olga Stepanovna, Plutary Vitalia Volodymyrovich, Radchenka Eugenia Volodymyrovich, The blind man of Aunt Volodymyrna, Shipil's Leontiya Mikolaiovich, The Yuslim Aunt Leonidina. The main principle followed by the President of Ukraine during consultations on candidates for the Central Electoral Commission is the full update of the CEC. Therefore, there are no candidates who worked in the previous warehouse of the Centre for Elections. This is the answer of the head of state to the demands of society. It should be noted that certain candidates have considerable practical experience and perfect knowledge of Ukrainian and international electoral law. In particular, all the proposed persons are professional lawyers, three of them work at the Department of Law at the National University of Taras Shevchenk and at the Kiev-Mogilian Academy. In addition, the Ukrainian President's report adheres to the principle of gender equality, with 8 women and 6 men representing 57 per cent by 43 per cent respectively. It should be noted that during consultations on candidates for the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, positions and nongovernmental and public organizations that support it are considered as the fastest update. The decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is our shared responsibility and will ensure the quality of the presidential and parliamentary elections. In view of the above, please support the submission of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u18	Thank you. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u19	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. Accordingly, the committee at its meeting considered the issue of dismissal, as well as the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission, since, following the submission of the President of Ukraine, the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council was to do so. The Committee considered the documents submitted under the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act on each candidature. And according to the Anti-Corruption Act, at the same time, the Supreme Council's apparatus was invited to send these documents for special inspection, as provided for by the Anti-Corruption Act. As a result of the audit conducted on all the names of the candidates who have just been identified as members of the Central Electoral Commission, the committee received separate information from each of the applicants of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, who concluded that the results of the review did not identify any facts that would impede the appointment of the persons selected to serve as members of the Central Electoral Commission. In addition, I refer to your weight that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, each group and faction had the opportunity to invite the candidates to conduct a previous interview with them and so that they could communicate with the candidates in factions and groups. Individual factions and groups have taken advantage of this right, and I know that they will be able to report on the outcome of this kind of discussion today. There is one very important fact that must be taken into account, Mr. Head. It is that there are two valid Ukrainian national deputies among the applicants. And according to the Anti-Corruption Act, they have a direct conflict of interest in this issue. I take this opportunity to ask Mrs. Ephraim, Mrs. Yuskovy, not to take part in the consideration and decision-making of this issue, so that they do not develop some awkward situations that may lead to unforeseen consequences. In view of this, the honourable Mr. Head, the Committee has reached recommendations for each of the candidates to serve as members of the Central Electoral Commission and recommends that the Supreme Council determine how to vote on their appointment. At the same time, in the event that such an appointment takes place, I would like to point out that we cannot now make an oath, because by law the members of the Central Electoral Commission cannot reconcile any other position with that of the Central Electoral Commission or have another representative mandate. That's why we have to give them a reasonable lie to time in order for the MPs to form their mandates, and the judges accordingly have their judicial mantle, so that those who work in the Cabinet of Ministers await the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers who are lawyers, wait for the decisions of the self-government bodies, some of them are natural persons who are entrepreneurs, and it takes some time. So we have to give a reasonable deadline to make them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u20	Thank you. So, colleagues, now, here's a question from factions and groups. Each faction and each group will be able to ask questions within a minute to any of the candidates of the CLTC or all members of the CLTC, and accordingly, who of the groups and factions has questions, please record. From "Peter Prashenko Block" Sporish Ivan Dmitrovitch passes the word, takes off the question. From the Opposition Block, who? Storm? The question's off, isn't it? From the People's Front, please. Chi Maxim. Maxim Burbak, please. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u21	I have a question for Mrs. Ephraim Irina about. Mrs. Irina, we are delegating the best representatives from the People's Front faction to the updated CBC in order to legitimately hold elections in Ukraine both to the Presidential and to the Supreme Council and to the subsequent elections to the local self-government bodies. I have a little question. Please tell me, at the first meeting, can you cancel the disgraceful decision of the CEVC of August 9 and appoint elections in more than 130 united territorial communities, with over one and a half million people waiting for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u22	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to Efraem's Irina Alexiyevny. Mrs. Irina, answer the question, please. Turn on the microphone. Ephraim's Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u23	In answer to the faction's question, I want to say that I will certainly work honestly and responsibly on the Central Election Commission. And I want to state a conflict of interest where I can't vote for myself, because these are the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules. All the efforts I'm going to make to the Central Electoral Commission will be about restoring honest and true work and certainly restoring the election to the OTG.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u24	Thank you. Also about conflict of interest. I also received a statement corresponding to the conflict of interest in the Southern vote. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to Aunt Leonidni of the South, and I'm asking you for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u25	Thank you. In accordance with part six of article 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that there is a conflict of interest in voting for my candidacy as a member of the Central Electoral Commission and that I will not take part in the vote on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u26	Thank you. So from Self-Help, Egor Viktorovich Sobolevitch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u27	Teeth Lubomir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u28	Look, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the candidates for the Central Electoral Commission may be aware that the present composition of the Central Electoral Commission, in a mild sense, has placed more than 100 potential united communities in a position of 1.5 million voters, Ukrainians. I have a question for you. Have you overlooked this question, and what is your position on this? Are you willing to appoint an election to the OTG, or do you feel it is necessary to transfer the responsibility to the Supreme Council? In particular, he now asks the Committee on Justice to provide an explanation, although this is a clear responsibility, a clear mandate of the CEC. Thank you. If anyone has a wish, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u30	Thank you. To whom did the question come? A rhetorical question. Okay. Did anyone have a specific question? One minute of all. I won't be able to name everyone's last names. Name a person who would like to answer. Please, Toothache.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u31	Okay. Please ask Mrs. Bernack to answer as the last deputy minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u32	In Ukrainian, yes, we speak the national language. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u33	Thank you so much for asking. Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies and distinguished participants in this meeting. In fact, on my part, as a lawyer, I analyzed the matter. And there are a lot of questions about why this decision came about in the Central Elections Commission and what its legal basis is. It is extremely important to realize that the CLTC is a collegiate body, and we will need to have a position that will be common in order to change this decision. But we are confident that the election in OTG will take place, the internal order in the CLTC has been changed, which predicts that they can be assigned at any given month, so we hope that this year these elections will be scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u34	Thank you. And the final question of "The Opposition Block" by Skorik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u35	Respectable citizens! Dear members of the Central Electoral Commission! I would like to use my moment not to ask, but to point out once again that the Opposition Block does not have its representatives on the Central Electoral Commission today, which violates the quota principle for the formation of the Central Electoral Commission, which has been highlighted in its resolution by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And accordingly, we see our faction "The Opposition Block" sees this as a direct path to forging the presidential election by President Prashenko's acting team. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u36	Thank you. But you have a chance because of the law of Paris, and you should come up and thank you sincerely for the opportunity -- a vacancy that your candidate may be offered. Thank you. And now the time for questions is up. We're going to the next chapter, this is actually actually from factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups who are going to perform to record and sign up for the performances. Please, three minutes each faction. From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u37	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. It's really very important right now, you could say, to some extent, it's a historical question. For four years the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people, had been awaiting an update of the Central Election Commission. Sadly, however, the law that was passed on Tuesday was passed with numerous violations. But to this day, there is no other choice in Parliament than to fulfill the promise that we all went to the elections that we've been asking the President to make this submission for four years. The renewal of the Central Electoral Commission, its quality work will determine the future legitimacy of the election of the President and the Parliament. Honesty and transparency in the work of the electorate will determine whether the people and Ukrainian citizens will trust the future elections with their results, or not, whether it will lead to the next social upheaval, or if it will bring peace in society. That's why I'm now primarily addressing candidates for the Central Election Commission. Regardless of what political power you represent, regardless of the political power that has put you out, you must remember that at this work you should serve the Ukrainian people, not the political powers that have delegated you to those positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. And, please, Mr. Doubenkov's representative of the Opposition Block is invited to the floor. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u39	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, especially a respected international community, who also observe this farce. To be honest, the patient came in, when, in such a cynical way, the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is not important to me, is not a respectable person, because, in fact, by violating the rules, by violating the constitutional principles of the formation of the Central Electoral Commission, the key central authority of the executive authority, which affects the establishment of the results of the Supreme Council's universal elections, the President of Ukraine, is now telling us that you thank us for bringing this bill, he actually usurped the power for the People's Front Block, for the sake of the People's Front, and now he's talking in a cynical way to thank him. This is the real face of a real coalition. That's how they see elections, so they see real democratic values. How can we then talk about the rule of law in this room? Is that how we understand it when in the third fraction, which you didn't vote for, fortunately, millions of citizens who share an alternative point of view with us, and now you're teaching us to speak, thank you. For what? You've actually replaced the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act as a specific person, voted on the Ukrainian Law on the RNB of a specific person from your faction, and now you're adapting the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, and they've already adapted it to a fairly fast date to extend this composition of the CLF. I call on the international community again, first of all, to make them appreciate not the words, not the positions they made in the coalition agreement, that is, the actions that took place yesterday and that are happening now. With a very good democratic mine, they actually do unconstitutional, non-democratic actions, because this push is anti-constitutional. Instead, to the members of the Central Electoral Commission, I have a very strong request to ensure the implementation of the electoral rights of internally displaced persons. Since they are not allowed to vote, this is an abnormal situation in the country. Because most of the present members of Parliament are represented in general. are represented by citizens who are not deprived of voting rights. In fact, the Opposition Block insists that very many territories are deprived of this opportunity to have their representatives in this room. And when you decide to consider this issue, I have a request to ensure standards, constitutional rights, to reinstate them in a passive right to exercise my electoral rights. And I hope that your work will still be in line with the Constitution, and we will be very careful to follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u40	Please give your next speech, National Deputy Abdullin of Fatherland. He's handing over the right to speak to Ivan Krulk. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u41	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherskina faction has consistently argued that the Central Electoral Commission, led by Mr. Hendowski, is involved in Janukovic's "black accounting" and took money to falsify the elections that this commission should be changed. Although we also know that this committee had a small number of honest members of the Central Electoral Commission. People like Jeanne Usenko-Black, Andrew Mager, Mrs. Sweden are people who are really not ashamed of the work they've been doing, and the faction of Fatherland is grateful to them. Now we're going to form a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. I would like to make it clear once again that the increase in the composition of the CEVC by 17 took place on Tuesday, a bill that was voted in violation of the Supreme Council Rules, which raised a big question about the electoral process, unfortunately, has been extended in this room. And it is a disgrace to Parliament that, at a particular political moment, these laws have changed. Our faction did not vote to change the number of the Central Electoral Commission under someone or for the sake of a particular hotel. But instead, we're the political force that's going to change the Central Election Commission, and we're going to support the rotation of the Central Electoral Commission. I'd like to go to the candidates for the CTC right now. You'll have a huge responsibility not to turn yourself into a 2004 C.I.V.C. model that made the servers through which they faked the elections that signed the illegal protocols. You must act in accordance with the law and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws. And you have one problem: those voting results that are going to be voted on at the polls, set up as the Central Election Commission. This is the task that we, as the "Fatherland" faction, place before every candidate in the CLTC regardless of who it is. Although, at the same time, if the President of Ukraine, who spoke today and spoke for fair and transparent elections, I don't understand why he needs a total control over the Central Electoral Commission? No, I understand, in order to be able to break the election process or falsify the election. As Fatherland, we will fight all the methods that we have to choose the people to be elected by the President, the Supreme Council or the local elections, to be reflected, to be established, and the Central Election Commission has confirmed this choice. One more thing. The BPT faction told us on all airs that we will not vote for EU and NATO membership. We voted unanimously. And I'd like to see someone come and apologize for all the lies and grass you're making and continue to do against the democratic forces, dissipating Ukrainian society and acting in the interests of the Kremlin and Putin. And the C.V.C.A. needs to be rotated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u42	Please, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to the rostrum. Arthur Gerasimov! Please, Mr. Arthur, please present the position of the "Peter Prashenko Block" regarding the ruling that we are now voting for the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u43	Dear Irina Volodymyrically, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, indeed, there is one of the most important things that happens in this sessional room. I would like to remind you that more than three years ago, the first submission to the Central Electoral Commission was submitted to Parliament, and, finally, today we see that this update can actually be done. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to gather the entire Parliament, this is the third time today, because today we've actually made a historic decision both in NATO-EU and in the matter of parliamentary immunity, and today at 18 we're out of this session room together with the updated Central Election Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u44	Thank you, Sir Arthur. Oleg Lazko is invited to attend. It represents the position of the Radical Party faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will vote that there will be a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission in Ukraine so that the elections will not be falsified. But I want to go to the Ukrainians right now not on this, although it's a very important question, because who's going to be a member of the CLTC depends on the percentage of votes that people are going to be voting at the polling stations. It is vital that this be uninvolved, honest, objective, simply moral and responsible composition of the Central Electoral Commission, so that they do not serve the authorities, so that they do not serve the interests of the Pharisees, so that they do not serve the interests of the devils of all who make money in order to falsify the elections. Because these presidential elections aren't just the President's election, they're the elections that will be the host of the Ukrainian land. Transnational corporations, the International Monetary Fund, international glytes and authorities will want to do their best to put a man in the President's chair who will make his first decisions about selling land. 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens against the sale of land, no matter how good it is when the land market is. Because people, Ukrainians, genetically, intuitively, from great-grandfathers, feel like they want to overwhelm, they want to rob, they want to take away the land and take away the future. The Radical Party team today has voted to refer to the Constitutional Court, to amend the Constitution, that the Ukrainian farmer and Ukrainian peasant should be the master of the Ukrainian land. And I say that today's vote on the ground is more important than the vote on amendments to the Constitution on EU and NATO membership. Because membership in the EU and NATO by the time one God knows, and the land they want to steal today, they're already stretching the land market, they're already putting their paws on every village supply, and they're counting the barrels they make by picking up Ukrainian peasants. Today’s authorities, along with the International Monetary Fund, have sung those Hummer sirens to kill them, as well as the present - day authorities speak sweetly of the land market. In fact, they want to put a knife in the back of a peasant, they want to carve cows, they want to rob people of the opportunity to live in their own country. We will see to it that changes to the Constitution are accepted in general so that the Ukrainian farmer and Ukrainian peasant are recorded in the Ukrainian Constitution. The Radical Party team won't let people steal land, property, and the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u46	Thank you. As chairman, I call once again exclusively on the subject of the decision under discussion to speak. I'd like to introduce you to the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, we've all come a long, difficult way of updating the CBC. But we all realized that with an old C.V.C.C.I. in the electoral process, it's ridiculous. Because with the old CTC and the election of the President, the Supreme Council would not be legitimate. That's why we've come to this moment today, and now it's crucial that we make the process of choosing the new composition of the CEVC as transparent, democratic and public as possible. This was the People's Front, and we stood up for it when there was a vote and summer, remember? We stood up for what is the PARJE resolution that recommended that all factions and groups be represented in the CLTC. And the decision, and the Bill of Andrew Paris allowed us to unlock the process, and now we can choose today, choose a new composition of the CIA, which should conduct open, public, transparent and democratic elections of the President, the Supreme Council, and then local self-government. Once again, I am convinced that one of the first decisions of the CLTC should be to appoint local elections in the newly formed united territorial communities, with more than 130 communities waiting for it, over 1.5 million people waiting for the CLTC to decide on the first election. The main thing for us is that our representatives, and they are delegated by the faction of the People's Front: Irina Efraemov, Natal Bernack, Leontius Shipilov -- they ensure the transparency, democracy and legitimacy of elections. I refer to the entire composition, to all the candidates, and I'm convinced that after the headship. vote, when the new composition of the CLTC is voted on, you will serve only the law and the people of Ukraine. Serve the people of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u48	Thank you. From Rebirth Group Bondar Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, for several years, the country had been waiting for these changes, for the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission to be re-voted, it already looked strange. I hope that we will finally end this "dear" epepoch and put a dot on it, and today a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission will be chosen, which will start to work systematically and allow the country to hold all the elections: both local and presidential, and parliamentary in the following year, and many more. But the key is, I want to focus on something else. We had a more important topic today, this is a statement by the President of Ukraine on the key events in the state and what course the state should build. Of course, I'd like to hear today not only the question of language, religion, the army, although it's extremely important, but here it was quite right in the hall, it's an axiom for all Ukrainian citizens, and everyone understands that these are key fundamental things for every Ukrainian. But I would still like to hear the question of the economic recovery of Ukraine: what economic strategy will be in this country in the coming years, and what the President, Parliament, Parliament and an active government guarantee us; how will we raise our industry; where will we make money; what will be the recovery program. And this is supposed to be a key place to live today. And I'm again addressing our overpowered factions with a demand and proposal to even listen to every minister's report, to hear what they've done in the last two years, where billions of dollars have been spent, where the importing leaders who were taken to Ukraine, who ran the Crucifixion Company, other businesses that have broken dozens of cases that have received millions of wages, escaped from the country, and there are no summary results. I'm surprised to read today that once again the minister, not the minister – the head of the Crucifixion Company, signed two memoranda with the Chinese, the French already for the purchase of electric vehicles abroad. And we have our two power plants, Dnipropetrovsk and Siemens share one of the best electric cars. So we're gonna go abroad again? I am surprised to read today that a member of the NCRE Commission is proposing that we urgently raise electricity tariffs by 50 percent. That's also an important question. So I still say that the government needs to be heard. And the President, I understand what this question can't raise today, because there's no one to be assigned. Half the ministers wrote statements, and half of them perform their duties. Therefore, we support the need for order, and we are ready to set our shoulders and give our support. But the economic recovery programme is going to come first, and it's going to be a key medium for the next two or three months before the state budget is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u50	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Jaroslav Moskalenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u51	Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! For six months, we've been looking for a complicated compromise, and finally we've reached a compromise -- there's going to be a new CLP vote today. I am surprised by someone’s disappointment or the joy of the political forces, as if the decision had been made. I believe that the new composition of the CLTC, which will be voted on, will work, not for anyone's political intrigue, but for the Ukrainian people. I want to speak to the candidates, and I hope that you will be voted today. Your decisions will depend on the philosophy of life of the Ukrainian people for years to come. And, God, save you from making criminal decisions or bringing someone to power by criminal means. You will be responsible to the Ukrainian people and to God, not to the political forces. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of today’s members of the CLTC. In the event of a vote, I wish you success and wise decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u52	Thank you. So the factions are finished. Colleagues, now come forward from the National Deputies, 9 minutes. I'm asking you to record a statement from the National MPs, please. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich gives the floor to Irina Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the main principle followed by President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, proposing candidates for the Central Electoral Commission, is his complete update. The Head of State took not only the opinion of factions and groups into account with a view to maximizing the transparency of the appointment process, but also discussed the issue with nongovernmental and public organizations. Now we're going to vote for this new composition of the CBC, but I want to make the next point. Of course, in the electoral process, the role of CEVC is of great importance. They ensure that the electoral rights of the citizens are realized, but by addressing the electorate, the honourable ones, you can and should vote and make your choice. It is you who choose our country, where to move and what to do. At the same time, adherence to the principles and principles of the electoral process will also be facilitated by monitoring the election of both representatives of public organizations and representatives of political parties and representatives of foreign nations and international organizations. We need to adopt a law that will strengthen the responsibility for electoral bribery and for falsification of elections. Moreover, updated by the judicial reform proposed by President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the courts will be able to protect and prevent counterfeiting. And finally, we have to decide with our electoral legislation. This is our responsibility, the people's own. It is Parliament at the legislative level that must determine the transparency of the rules and mechanisms of the electoral process. So we vote for the updated composition of the Central Electoral Commission, and we have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u54	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u55	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u57	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, the issue of CEC is a very important question. But in fact, CEC has literally affected one, maybe two percent of the counterfeiting that has been taking place in the Ukrainian electoral process for the last few years. Because when they mention the 14th year, when they mention the 15th year, and they say there's been no counterfeiting, it's an open lie. There have been forgeries. Forgeries were mostly at polling stations and district election commissions. So, of course, the normal Central Election Commission has to do everything possible to control these district election committees and district election committees. Regrettably, despite the very fine discussions that we are having about the fact that we are updating the Central Electoral Commission, the update is extremely declarant in that it is that people who have not previously been to the CBC are appearing. But it's not like that. If we look at this and look in detail at the biographies of most people today who are proposed for appointment at the CLTC, we'll see that in terms of their dependence on the controlling oligarchy, most of them are very little different from the previous CLF composition, from most of the previous CLF composition. It's also the assistants of the individual national MPs, it's people who worked for a very long time at the headquarters of the oligarchic parties and so on and so forth. And that's what seems to be an updated composition of the CBC. I have such a logical and rhetorical issue to deal with. If you're really an honest C.V.C.I., then why didn't you offer in this sort of new C.C.C.U. of the few, two or three people in the old C.V.C. who have really shown in these years that they're incorruptible, that they're objective, that they're honest choices? Like Mager? Well, who could say that Magera was involved in some sort of electoral corruption? No one can say that. But for some reason, just people who have declared themselves to be completely crystal clear people, somehow this oligartic authority in this seemingly new composition of the CLTC has not offered. And this leads to an obvious conclusion that it's actually proposed to continue to use CBC in its own manual, in manual mode, to manage the electoral process. But as I said before, CFC actually affects 1-2 percent of counterfeiting, everything else is a bribe, first of all at the lowest level, at the level of the district election boards. And I would now like to use the last 20 seconds, to turn to the Ukrainians, to our people. Dear Ukrainian people, don't pay any attention to the C.V.C.C., to the powder, to the Groysman, to the other oligarchic. Who is voting as promised, and who is lying. Come to the precinct, vote massively, and no manual CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u58	Thank you. Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone, please. Turn the Boyko microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u59	Olena Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u60	Olena Boyko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u61	Dear friends, today is a very important day, today we have not just dismissed members of the Central Electoral Commission who no longer have credentials for about four years, today we are appointing new members of the CWC. This is our new hope for justice, especially for the 1.5 million inhabitants of Ukraine who are awaiting the appointment of the first and additional elections. I am now addressing the future members of the Central Electoral Commission: please support these Ukrainian citizens who are now looking at you with great hope. Democracy is a process that needs to be regulated. Democracy is the right to self-determination. Our citizens have decided that they want to live better, and that is their right. And no one, no Central Election Commission of the past period, has the right to interfere with that. We are, of course, joining those thanks that have been spoken to the best members of the Central Electoral Commission who have worked honestly and in principle all these years. Thank you very much to Andrea Mageri for his principled position, for his governmental position. Hopefully, we will say such warm words to each of today’s members of the CLTC who will be assigned in seven years. Once again, the People's Front has an active, consistent position to support decentralization. It was the signature of former Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk that was under the Law on Voluntary Unity. In 2014, we made a great commitment to decentralization, to a major reform of local self - government? And we are proud to continue to make these commitments. Is that why today, two of our candidates we have the honour of presenting today? In answer to the question, they said that they were supporting united territorial communities that were entitled to the first election. So we want our candidates? And not only our success, we are waiting for them to make legal and just decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to make a closing statement from the national MPs, and then we're going to make a decision. So in three minutes, we're starting the voting procedure. And I ask the factions to warn all the deputies and invite all the deputies to the hall. Also, the Supreme Council Secretariat please inform us that in three minutes we will begin the voting procedure. And Wesselova Natalia gives the floor to Hanni Hopko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, there's actually a historic moment going on right now. And I would really like to thank those members of the Central Electoral Commission who worked honestly for the state: this is Andrew Magera, this is Usenko-Black Jeanne. In fact, you have made a superfluous effort for the CEC to serve the interests of society. I also wanted to say that we're going to choose the C.V.C.C. for the next seven years. This is actually the presidential election next year and the next presidential election. And I very much hope that Ukrainians will have the opportunity not only to have transparent and efficient work of the CLTC, but also to have decent candidates to choose from the presidential and parliamentary elections. And I would also like to say that today, we are non-fractional, also on behalf of Victoria Ptashnik, Ostap Ednak, Natalya Weselova, we want to say that we are choosing the composition of the CBC by the entire Parliament. And it's an enormous responsibility for you, future members, to be guided in your decisions, not by the interests of those political parties and factions that are delegating you today, but by the interests of society. Because after the Dignity Revolution and now that our soldiers are protecting our freedom in the East, it's very important that you be guided by the rule of law, so that you can practice better electoral practices during your work. And what I'd also like to say is that you really renewed this decision about holding elections in the united territorial communities, which was blocked by the previous compound, this should be one of the priorities. And that's what's very important. At the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we've already talked to our international partners about how important it is, once the CIA is to start preparing to protect our electrical system, the entire infrastructure from the possible cyber attacks that the Russian Federation will make in order to break elections in Ukraine. And that's why we encourage you to start training, some training in all areas and with various think tanks, international organizations to prove superstition, to protect elections in Ukraine, to prepare them with others. So, colleagues, I'd like to ask you for strength and also remind you that once we update the composition of the CLTC, we have another important decision to make. It must be a new Electoral Codex with open lists and today. They're all in T-shirts. I very much hope that we will have open lists, but we will also have political readiness from different political parties, especially new ones, to choose better, worthy candidates, so that with an updated CTC, with a new Electoral Code in society, there is still a possibility of having a real alternative. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you in the future, the advance so far, for really putting the state's interests ahead of the party's narrow interests of those who have nominated you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u64	Thank you. So the honourable colleagues, the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. I want to emphasize, colleagues, come into the hall while I emphasize. That, according to part three of article 209 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission is made by an open vote on each candidature separately. A member of the Central Electoral Commission is considered to be a candidate for a post supported by the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition, i.e. 226. Colleagues, my tremendous efforts have been made to ensure that we have an equal number of vacancies and those offered. Because we were witnesses, sometimes when dishonest things happened in the hall, I remind you, there were some things with the House of Accounts. And so it was very important that all the candidates that were presented should be able to be chosen. I very much hope that the principle of solidarity will work in the Hall when they support the factions of candidates from other factions, hoping that they will be supported by other factions. I hope that during the personal vote, there will be no separate failure and no voter failure that all candidates will win 226. I'm sure there's an interest in the entire room so that we don't have to vote at the time. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again: we will vote every time, but after the vote is over, I ask you not to break up, because if we choose the two national MPs that are proposed in the CLTC, it will be important for us to stop their mandate today. And so I ask that after the CLTC vote, we have two more candidates to vote for. So we're starting the selection process. I'm asking everyone who's not there yet to take their place. I'm going to call the candidates in alphabetical order separately, and we're going to vote on each candidate separately. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote with care and responsibility. So let's move on to the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. First name: Basalaieva Alla Valentinovna. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:10:32]] For 280 Welcome. You're the first member of the new CBC. But, colleagues, when I call the following names, there is a request from the hall that you rise up so that everyone can see you. Do you have a deal? So the next name is Bernatic Natalia Ilariownna. Please come up, please. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[17:11:08]] For 307 Next: Verbensky Mikhailo Georgievich. Please. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[17:11:32]] For-286 Decision taken. Eustigneus Andriy Sergiyovich. Please. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[17:11:58]] For 309 Decision taken. Ephraim’s Irina Alexiyevna Please take a look, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:12:24]] For 307 Decision taken. Yellow Olga Mikolayevna. Please. We looked, yeah. Vote. Please vote, please support. Vote [[17:12:50]] For 305 Decision taken. Konopolski Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote. [[17:13:14]] For 288 Decision taken. Kustov Svetlana Mikolayevna. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:13:38]] For 306 Decision taken. Lotuk Olga Stepanovna. Please. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:14:03]] For 296 Decision taken. Colonel Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Please. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:14:26]] For 302 Decision taken. Radchenko Eugene Volodymyrovich, please. Please vote and please support Eugene. Vote. [[17:14:54]] For 289 Decision taken. Tetjana Volodymyrna's bat. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:15:17]] For 317 Decision taken. Shipilow Leontius Mikolaiovich. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:15:40.]] For 308. Decision taken. Yusuf's Aunt Leonidivna. Please vote and please support. [[17:16:05]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have to announce the names of the appointed members of the Central Electoral Commission, and I call the names of all: Basalayeva Alla Valentinovna, Bernacka Natalija Ilarianovna, Verbanski Mikhailo Georgievic, Evstigniev Andri Sergiyovich, Efraemova Irina Alexievna, Zeltova Olga Mikolayivna, Konopolski Oleg Mikolaiovich, Kustova Svetlana Mikolayivna, Lotuk Olga Stepanovna, Plukar Vitali Volodymyrovich, Radchenko Evgen Volodymyrovich, Sleptak Tetjana Volodirovna, Šipilov Leontij Mikolayovich and Yuzkov Tetjana Leonidivna. Chosen by new members of the new Central Election Commission. Let us welcome the members of the Central Electoral Commission for their positions of responsibility! Welcome! [[Applause]] I'd like to ask the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to make decisions for the consequences of the decision we have made, my colleague. And now, I remind you, two decisions to terminate the MP's powers. Ephraim wants it now. So, yes, I invite Ephraim's Irina Alexienne to the rostrum. Colleagues, pay attention, don't break up! We have two more important votes, don't split. And, colleagues, I would like to point out that, in fact, the law on increasing the members of the CLTC today has given us the opportunity to agree on all the halls to choose all, I stress, all the proposed members of the CLTC, and that is consensus, and compromise that has made us stronger and Ukraine stronger. The new CEVC is selected, now let's finish the procedure. Okay. So, respectable colleagues, pay attention! It took more time to prepare the committee’s decision. We wait for the committee's decision, and I have no doubt that the entire room will be fully supported. This is our position of solidarity, I hope we will go through all things in a very responsible and balanced way. We await the decision of the committee, and next week we will be able to vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary powers. And now I'd like to welcome you once again. And, colleagues, our work continues. The next bill that we have is extremely important, it's a little bit of a budget change, but they let us. We are allowed to provide legal aid for our political prisoners in Russia. So I very much ask you, colleagues, now to support this law, this will be the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making and consideration now. I hope everyone got to know him. These are little changes to the budget that will allow us, the technical things that will allow us to provide financial security for the families of our political prisoners. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the session and to take a decision on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018 (No. 9026). Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. I hope everyone got to know each other. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. 9026. [[17:20:24]] For 207 Apparently, not all of them were orientated. Please come in, take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. One minute, Irina Heratchenka. I ask everyone to return to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! You and I, for which we are very grateful to everyone without exception to the factions of Parliament, have included in the 2018 budget 90 million dollars to help the families of political prisoners -- Crimean Tatars, that is, Ukraine -- according to lawyers and scholarships. We've done this before. But in view of the misrepresentation of this budget line, the bill requires only that the budget line be renamed to unlock the possibility of providing legal aid and scholarships. Today, families of prisoners themselves raise money to go to Siberia and buy tickets. And all of this is going to unlock these payments. The government supported the bill. He doesn't need any extra money from the budget, it's just going to rename the expenditure budget line, and we're going to unlock such an important issue. I am very much asking to vote now for inclusion in the agenda and to vote positively today in general. There is such a request from the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Areas. Minfin supports, the profile committee supports. I hope everyone understands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u66	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, I hope everyone's already focused and now they're going to take part, and they're going to vote responsibly. So once again, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session and to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018 (9026). I ask you to vote, and I ask you to give everyone responsible support. Please vote and support the Ukrainian political prisoners. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:22:39]] For 262 It's on. We can go to his acceptance, but I'd like to make an announcement, colleagues. Therefore, we are not in a position to examine the judges of the Constitutional Court. We invited them, but the constitutional process will take about an hour, yes. The committee's offering to move, isn't it, Ruslan? Let's consult, colleagues. Mr. Ruslan, would you please tell me how to do this? Maybe we can make it through? Colleagues, we're here before we cross over. Colleagues, attention, I'd like everyone's attention to be in the hall. We can theoretically pass through the judges of the Constitutional Court. Let's try it. Now I'm going to put up a rating vote. We have 40 minutes, if we pass this law quickly, we have a chance. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take part in the rating vote now. Who for us today to pass the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, please vote and please support, is our great opportunity. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[17:24:07]] For 211 Can we come in? Then, colleagues, I have a request to briefly consider this bill, which we have just included, during the consideration of this bill to conclude consultations, yes. And then I'll make a decision. Now we're going to draft Law 9026. And please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:24:48]] For 203 Decision taken. Please report to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, once again, this is not about any new expenditures of the Ukrainian budget. Once again, I thank everyone without exception to the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament for our consolidated position regarding the support of the families of prisoners. And in this year's budget, at 18, you and I have allocated 90 million dollars for legal aid and assistance to the families of prisoners. But in view of the misrepresentation of the budget programme, these funds cannot be used by the government, although it has already been decided by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to make such payments for both lawyers and to support the families of the hostages. Who Needs Support Today? The Baluch family, the Kolchenka family, the Suschenka family, the Sonsov family, where two children remain in Crimea and, in fact, need our support with you today. That is why I am simply asking that we now, and in general, vote on this bill, which provides for an exclusive change in the name of the budget programme to deal with families of prisoners and hostages. And at the same time, I think you'll all be supporting us to address the government as soon as possible, to implement this program as possible, as well as the President's decree on the Leuk Lukyanka Fellowship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u68	So, colleagues, thank you. Is there a discussion or a vote? Vote. There's no one to discuss it. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 (No. 9026) as a basis and as a whole. Please take your seats, please vote responsibly, please come into the hall. Everyone please take up their jobs, colleagues. And I would like to vote in favour of the Ukrainian political prisoners. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:27:15.]] For 249 Decision taken. And we have the opportunity to move on to the next issue of the agenda, the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we talk so often about the fact that we had a four-year debt on the Central Electoral Commission for the appointment of new members, today we've already given it away, this debt. And today we have an opportunity to pay off another debt. For four years, the Supreme Council cannot complete its representation quota in the Constitutional Court. I hope that today those two vacant positions that exist will be filled and the full court will be able to carry out its justice in the 18 judges of the Constitutional Court. This will help us to do as quickly as possible, including the tasks that the Constitutional Court imposed on us the new Constitution, which we changed two years ago. You know, a new institution of constitutional complaint has been introduced. The full representation of the judges of the Constitutional Court is required for colleges and full Senate to work. Therefore, in view of this, and in view of the committee's proposal, a preliminary interview with the parliamentary factions was held, these are two representatives from the Peter Poroshenko bloc, a representative from the People's Front and a representative from the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. After interviewing them, the committee proposes to the Supreme Council to determine the way of voting for the appointment of Irina Mikolayivna, Mikola Evgenovich, Oleg Alexiyovich of Pervomaj and Jakimczuk of Natalia Jakwan to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I'll remind you that in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, there is a rating vote. And those two candidates who are voting as a result of a higher number of votes in relation to other votes, so to speak, in the second round, are on the ballot list, i.e. together, and the session room is determined as to their appointment as judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. Please support the draft conclusion of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u70	Thank you. Thus, according to article 148 of the Constitution, colleagues in Ukraine are made up of 18 judges. According to articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint six judges of the Constitutional Court. For the time being, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint two judges of the Constitutional Court. In accordance with article 208, four candidates for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court were nominated by the MPs: Irina, Mikola, Oleg Pervomayski and Jakimchuk Natalija. The discussion procedure takes place after full reading. And now I'm asking MP factions and groups to record statements from MP factions and groups. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u71	Ivan Sporish. I give the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u72	Please, Your Honor, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u73	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank every national deputy, the entire Supreme Council, for having updated the Central Election Commission today. This is really an important event, and I want to thank everyone in this room very much. With regard to the second staff assignment, it is the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court by the quota of the Supreme Council. Also today, I ask the Council to gather and make this very necessary decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u74	Thank you. Please, Michael Bondar to present the position of the People's Front. People's Front, please, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u75	We're not wasting our time. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u76	Thank you for your flexibility. And please, Mr. Sidorovich. Present the position of the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u77	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Indeed, it is a very important historic decision to elect a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, and with that, I really hope, we can welcome the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. At the same time, the question that we are discussing right now is equally important. What is the Constitutional Court? This is the only body in the country that can determine whether constitutional laws are adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or whether constitutional decrees by the President of Ukraine are constitutional. It is a body that similarly examines the constitutional complaints of citizens in the event that the judicial decision in which the relevant case has been brought has also been adopted with the application of an unconstitutional law. Moreover, in the impeachment procedure, the Constitutional Court itself plays a key role in bringing the President to justice. Therefore, the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Human Beings who really understand the deep matter of constitutional law and understand that the Constitution is primarily a document that should restrict power and guarantee respect for human rights is extremely important. Therefore, when we discuss and discuss each candidate, we must make sure that this person is not just an emissary from Parliament, but he will be willing to work for the next nine years on the protection of constitutional law and on the protection of those rights of citizens and people who are guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. We call for a serious and deliberate vote to strengthen the Constitutional Court, which has now begun to restore citizens' trust and not to degrade it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u78	Thank you for your position. Please, Sergey Sobolev, present the position of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Court is not just a body to which Parliament, the President, the Supreme Court essentially entrusts the country's destiny, because what they did, including the acting judges of the Constitutional Court, who, in violation of the Constitution, morals, rights, the rule of law, have decided on the return of the so-called old Constitution, I think it was the best test that has unfortunately been passed. That is why our faction has scrupulously analyzed all those who have a bearing on the constitutional right to a high-ranking lawyer. And that's why we had the pattern: Victor Ivanovich Shishkin. One of the few who had always signed a special point of view when it applied to the most important decisions of the state when the Constitutional Court tried to break through the knee. That is the kind of person who is a candidate who is not a member of any party and has never been, because he is a judge and he wears that high title – Mr. Shortevitch. This is the person who has, in my opinion, been the best way of an expert who can be worthy of serving as a member of the Constitutional Court. That's why when you look at this candidate on the profile committee, the evaluations that were given to him are the highest grades. And that's why, in our view, Mr. Mikola can exercise authority with dignity, honesty, ignoring any pressures, and that's what's most important in these times. That is why our faction asks for the support of an expert, a lawyer, a moral person who will allow the Constitutional Court to have a second breath. And we think that's the kind of professional principle that should be the key. Because if we go back to partying, any other principle, the Constitutional Court will virtually cease to exist, as it ceased to exist literally seven years ago when it approved the decision to change the Constitution in an unconstitutional way. That is why this is our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were four factions. I'm talking to MP groups and factions: no more wanters? None. What about the Opposition Block? Please, Mr. Germanko, raise your hand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! I am the judge of the Constitutional Court in resignation, and I want to say that as of today, there is a composition in which the history and nature of the application of relations is of particular importance. Because the Constitutional Court today essentially depends on all social relations. I mean, I don't have any complaints about my colleagues running for Judge of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I want to say that Mr. Shortevitch is a judge. This is a civil position and a vision of reality. I can't say I understand him, I respect him, and I know he's not that thin, but I know he's a principle person. He's not recommended by anyone, but he's a judge. The judge in the capital who couldn't be broken by the National Guards, all the qualifications, all the lawsuits they wanted against these people. I wish all the candidates success, health. As for Shorty, I said my word. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, according to the Rules, we are going to discuss the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court. We'll have six minutes from the Ukrainian National Deputies, two minutes from the National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, Sergey Sobolev gets his word again. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, over the past 10 years, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has stood several times in the epicenter of the nation's total interest. And because of how hard these people, I mean the judges of the Constitutional Court, could hold a professional blow and endure political pressure, very often it depends on whether there will be a democratic Ukrainian state or whether there will be democratic institutions. Regrettably, in the last year, the criteria for the selection of judges were changed to the Constitutional Court. Instead of being professionally independent and honest, loyal, not entirely professional. With all due respect to all the candidates, I can say quite clearly and frankly, when "Fatherhood" was putting forward its candidate, we weren't looking for a member of the party, we weren't looking for our sympathy, we were coming out of those criteria that the judge of the Constitutional Court should be a professional, it should be, as provided for by the Constitutional Court Act, a person with high moral qualities, a person who can make professional decisions about the issues and challenges facing the Constitutional Court. And such a person is a candidate of our political power, Mikola Evgenovich Korotkevich, who proved his professionalism, honesty and integrity by his work in the judiciary as judge of the Supreme Court of Criminal Justice. And once again, I want to say what my colleague Sergei Sobolev said: Mr. Shortevitch was the first to be evaluated during the committee's consideration of the issue. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u84	Please, Baby Oleg will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I remind you, colleagues, in the summer, the Constitutional Court made an extremely important decision on the Chernobylites, which was declared unconstitutional by the Budget Act, which stopped the implementation of the Chernobyl Social Protection Act. I demand that the Supreme Council implement the decision of the Constitutional Court and immediately submit to Parliament a bill 4442, which restores the social rights of the Chernobylites, the people who have protected the country, who have sacrificed their health and lives, and today the authorities tell them that there is no money to implement the law on the social protection of the black people. Draft Law 4442 by members of the Radical Party restores the social standards of the Chernobyl Protection Act, which is our responsibility to implement this law. We're told, they're telling us that there's no money for niggers. I'll give you an example: billions of people are spending on so-called anti-corruption bodies that he shoots at each other in downtown Kiev, tomorrow people will be shot in broad daylight, almost 2 billion people are given so-called social television, and that social television doesn't show the progress of the Kyiv Patriarchate, or other very important measures, MPs are forbidding them to go to the studio. And the niggers are told there's no money. So Bill 4442, registered by our team in Parliament, is the restoration of the social rights of Chernobyl. We're asking the government to make changes to the budget, to anticipate spending on the implementation of the Chernobyl Act and the key is raising wages and recalculating pensions for Ukrainians so that people don't run abroad and have the opportunity to earn and work in Ukraine's home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u86	Gudzenko Vitaly Ivanovich is invited to attend. Guzenko, the microphone's on. The next one is Mikitas. The next one is Easy. Presentation by the National Deputies. Yeah, then Wessel's, non-factional. Wesley's. Mikitas. Well, please, Mikitas Shahov is handing over. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u87	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, we've been making decisions for six months on the CBC. Let us not delay the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and this is a very important decision. Let's ask today about the price increase of electricity for utilities. This was an anti-constitutional decision. And "Our End" requires an immediate decision on Decree 9027: return the prices as a normal consumer. It's enough to rob Ukrainians by raising tariffs three times today, make 90 copies for an ordinary Ukrainian, that's for utility companies. Like, even in the Supreme Council, we pay for it. Next. Today, a regulation on a moratorium on gas price increases has been registered. Today, too, the government wants to make an anticonstitutional decision to raise the price of gas. We demand an immediate moratorium on the price of gas for Ukrainians. Ukrainians are using Ukrainian gas! Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u88	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. The Rules, colleagues, provide for questions to be asked about candidates for Constitutional Court judges from factions and groups. So if the factions and groups want to ask a question to a judge of the Constitutional Court, please record and ask questions, please. Two questions. The Radical Party is taking off the question. And Fish John from. [[B in m in s a l in]] from Peter Dustenk's Block. Please, Fishbuck, then Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, this is a matter that is really, really important, and so from our faction I propose to go to the vote accordingly, and to define the judges of the Constitutional Court. Let's figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m1.u90	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. There have already been speeches by the deputies, there have been. So I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. This is a very responsible vote, colleagues. I'll remind you what the procedure is. First, I put four candidates to the vote. It's a rating vote, it's not an appointment yet. After that, two of those candidates who obtained the largest number of votes would be invited to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. And I, my colleagues, believe very much, and I want to believe that today we will be able to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court -- this is our legitimate duty, which we have long had to fulfil. So I'm asking for understanding in the hall, and I'm asking for consensus in the hall, and I'm asking everyone to participate in the vote. So we're starting with a rating vote. I, my colleagues, will call the names and the first vote is a rating vote. So, attention, colleagues. Come into the hall. Yes. And I'm going to ask, like the C.V.C.C., if you don't mind, to go up during the vote. Okay? So there were questions from the deputies. So the first is Irina Mikolayevna. Please vote. Irina Mikolayevna. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:50:19.]] For 223 Shortevitch Mikola Evgenovich. Please, Shorty, please. Is there no room? Please vote. Please be supportive. Oh, I didn't just see it. It's okay. [[17:50:48]] For-68 Pervomayski Oleg Alexiyovich. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:51:10]] For 238. And Jakimczuk Natalia Yakowna. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, take part in the vote, don't leave the hall. [[17:51:34]] For 121 Thus, according to part of article 208 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a list of the two candidates who obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the rating vote is placed on the vote. And, colleagues, I would like to emphasise a very responsible vote, if we don't get 226, then it will take months again, colleagues. And we as the Supreme Council will not have our own representation. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Let's all take part in the vote and select the judges of the Constitutional Court from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm putting to the vote the question of the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of the County Irina Mikolayovna, who won 223 votes and the First-Mayan Oleg Alexiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Together? Together, together, the committee says together. Who won 238 votes. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Committee, stop! Stop! The committee! Together? Together, right? I'm sorry. The Committee on Legal Policy gave me clear direction. I'll put it to the polls, Hungary and Pervomayan. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please vote. [[17:53:23]] For 230 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have appointed two judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Let us welcome the elected judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And I'm asking the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we've made. In accordance with part 10 of article 208 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I ask the profile committee to prepare the event, to prepare the ruling on the outcome of the decision we have taken and to sign to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have just fulfilled another of our obligations and our demands, today we have adopted changes to the Constitution. Today, we have identified Ukraine's strategic direction to the EU and NATO. And this is a fundamental, fundamental decision of Ukraine. Today, we have decided on a land that paves the way for recognition by a country that cares for farmers who care for peasants. Today we voted in favour of the removal, another stage, of the inviolability of the Ukrainian National Deputies. And, colleagues, despite the criticism that has been, I'm sure today's CEVC vote has confirmed that the Ukrainian Parliament will not allow the Ukrainian state to be plunged into chaos. Those who wanted to leave the old CBC, their plans, their scenarios failed because those scenarios were written in Moscow because those scenarios were written in the Kremlin. The Ukrainian Parliament has responsibly updated the Central Electoral Commission, and we have demonstrated the will of the Ukrainian Parliament to change, and the new elections of the President of Ukraine and Parliament will hold a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. And, colleagues, we have also chosen two judges of the Constitutional Court, and this is also an extremely important and important decision. Those who said that Parliament would not work today were convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament was working as a clock, as an agreed mechanism, to MP full of responsibilities and labour. I want to emphasize that we haven't gotten to the two questions, the renaming of the two areas, this is the final stage of decommunization. Until next week, I'm asking you to hold the necessary consultations so that we can make changes next week and decommunize the two areas, which needs to be changed to the Constitution. And it's very important that we are in the same order and dynamically approach this issue. I want, colleagues, to thank everyone for this difficult but responsible day for our decisions. Evening meeting of the Supreme Council. There's one more announcement, one more second. I'm looking for an ad. Colleagues, I would like to announce that during the vote for inviolability and during the vote for amendments to the Constitution, 6236/P, Vladimir Parasuk voted actively, took part in the vote, and Timoshenko Yuri voted even more actively, but their cards did not work. I want to publicly announce that they support the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- both Parasuk and Yuri Timoshenko. Colleagues, as promised, I made an announcement. And now I can announce that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Tomorrow we will be hearing the government's presentation of the budget. And at 10 a.m. tomorrow, we're going to continue our hard work, but it's the kind of work that's needed for the country. Good-bye.
