ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration, take up jobs. Ready? Ladies and gentlemen, I request your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:22]] 375 Ukrainian national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You're welcome. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian Prime Minister, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the government, also participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Hello. [[Applause]] The heads of the central executive branch, the heads of the judicial branch, also present the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve, representatives of public organizations and the media, heads of foreign diplomatic representations, other officials. Dear colleagues, today in accordance with article 106, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine annually for the internal and external status of Ukraine. To announce an annual message to the rostrum, the president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u2	Dear compatriots! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Remarkable representatives of the diplomatic corps! Your Grace! Reverend Fathers! Today, in this Hall of the Supreme Council, Ukraine will vote in favour of amending the Basic Law on the irreversibility of the course and acquisition of membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. [[Applause]] And I would like to take this opportunity to urge all of you, honourable national deputies, to support this initiative and to direct this document to the expertise of the Constitutional Court. This project is completely and completely in line with our Ukrainian national interests and is in harmony with the moods of most of our societies. On Friday, the most extensive international teaching of Rapid Trident was completed in the Yavorov region. Soldiers from 14 countries, 10 of which NATO member countries have worked together in the event of an attack by one of the neighbouring countries. We have once again demonstrated to all our partners that we are going to NATO, not with empty hands, but as a solid partner with a substantial contribution to overall continental and transatlantic security. September 1st was the year when the Association Agreement with the European Union became fully operational. Tomorrow, Ukraine issues a ten million - dollar biometric passport. And this, by the way, is an answer to those who, in trying to minimize the difficulty of the visa-free regime, claimed that the Ukrainians had little interest in it. Ten million Ukrainians have already received biometric passports for this short period of time. For Ukrainians, nearly two thirds of the world’s countries have been discovered. And we will continue to expand the area of freedom of movement for Ukrainian citizens. On this Monday, by my decree, I put into effect the decision of the Council of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine not to continue the treaty on, so-called, friendship with Russia. [[Applause]] And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will send a note to Moscow, and I will submit an appropriate bill to Parliament, because the last word in this matter is, my dears, behind you, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Constitution proposes to delete the rule that allows for the establishment of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. [[Applause]] And after we return Crimea, the Russian base in Sevastopol will definitely be gone. [[Applause]] As I promised you, by the end of August, the SND had officially confirmed that Ukraine had closed its representation with statutory bodies, so-called cooperatives. One more thing is very important. Finally, the Ecumenical Patriarch’s exarches arrived in Kiev. [[Applause]] A decision was made on the granting of autocafalia to the Ukrainian local Orthodox Church. It's you and me doing this very important thing. And we will definitely win. The case was described by Metropolitan Ilario Ogienko as the work of completely dispersing our church. The Broadcasting and Broadcasting Board published a report on the compliance of radio stations with quotas for Ukrainian. And it's nice to say that the vast majority of radio companies are re-implementing the law. And I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for supporting the Presidential Initiative to Change the Military Statutes, which introduce the long-awaited greeting: "Glory to Ukraine" -- "The Hero of Fame." [[Applause]] I very much hope that by the Day of Fatherland's Defender, which we celebrate on October 14, we, more specifically you, will approve this introduction, and I will sign it. Dear fellow countrymen, these events occurred only during the last month, and by hearing only, they seem to be completely diverse at first sight. And in fact, there's nothing random among them, all of them, part of our national pro-Ukraine and pro-European strategy, which we've been consistently implementing with you over the last four years. And I emphasize, strongly stress, we will continue to do so. Each of these events is a testimony to our breakup with the colonial past, each of them a step towards our complete freedom from the empire. We finally got out of the mazes of vernacularity, barely jumped out of the deadly trap of non-locking, and since 2014, we have been firmly on our way, and this is the way to the European Union and NATO. And only the integration of Ukraine into Euro-Atlantic space guarantees peace for all of us, guarantees security for all of us and guarantees independence for Ukraine and a higher standard of living for the Ukrainian people. It was you and I who built a fighting army. We return to the Ukrainian Church a worthy place in the world’s Orthodox Church. It's very important that we finally protect, develop and support the Ukrainian language -- the component of the power and the success of our people. We will continue to take effective measures to strengthen the state status of the Ukrainian language, to strengthen and disseminate it in all spheres of public life. It's strange, I think in the very firm position in Ukrainian, individual national MPs left the room. [[Applause]] But no one will stop us. And thank you for your determination, and thank you for your unity. Because the army, the language, and the faith. And it's not a slogan, it's a formula for modern Ukrainian identity. The army will defend our land. The language defends our heart. The Church defends our soul. And perhaps in recent years the authorities have made many tactical mistakes. And for that, I personally have a part of the responsibility. But I know for a fact that we haven't missed anything and we haven't been wrong about strategy. To make a strong and successful Ukraine, an integral and impenetrable part of Europe, without any prospect of a return to the zone of Russian influence, is our goal, our ambition, our mission with you. Is our strategy irreversible, and how threatened is the rematch of the pro-Russian forces and the irresponsibility of the populists? And how can we make sure that the electoral cycle does not stop the country’s movement or, worse yet, turn us back? How can we avoid wasting what the Ukrainian people have accomplished at the cost of great trials? And in what way is strategic success converted into an increasing standard of living? What should be our urgent action in the coming years? The answer to these questions is my message, which is summarized in the current office of the President and forecasted for the years to come. The epithets that we characterize external and internal situations depend on where we are prescribed – in power or opposition, but in all current challenges and threats, our common dynamics are absolutely clear, the situation inside and around us is not exactly as dramatic as in 2014-2015. We have become stronger and stronger, but first of all, I would like to stress the objectivity of most of society. It was not possible to end the war and restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity. As a result of aggression, 20 percent of Ukraine’s industrial potential has been lost. This, of course, provoked the effect of dominoes on the entire Ukrainian economy. Along with Russia’s aggressive closure of its market for Ukrainian goods, this caused a deep social crisis. We stood still and resumed our growth. However, most Ukrainians have not yet experienced an improvement in their well - being, and the standard of living is being restored slowly and unevenly both in the regions and in the social and age groups, and pensioners in particular remain unprotected. We've created anti-corruption infrastructure with you. Some new authorities have invested a large amount of financial resources in Ukraine’s taxpayers. But so far, the coefficient of their beneficial action is not exactly satisfied with me as President. And socially disappointed with the dynamics of anticorruption, and people's claims are completely justified. The country’s emigration took place on a serious scale. All the countries in Central-Eastern Europe that have become part of the European labour market in the process of European integration are facing this challenge in one way or another. Regrettably, the authorities have allowed many calculations in human resources policy, and bold experiments in this area have proved to be insufficient. The pace of reforms is not at all like the speed we were planning at the start. The problems proved to be deeper, stronger, more complex. Social and economic problems have political consequences. It's also a threat to the rematch of the pro-Russian forces, and the boom of left populism, and the manifestation of right radicalism, it's a lack of confidence in state institutions, doubts about the effectiveness of democratic governance, and sympathy for anarchy or vice versa. And against the backdrop of high expectations in society, there was a feeling of deep dissatisfaction, even from those who are confident that the country is moving in the right direction, many who think that we are moving zigzaglikely. And that certainly doesn't satisfy me. I'm going to focus on these flaws on purpose, and I've put them in particular in the structure of the performance ahead of the winnings. It is more than ever that we need to have a frank conversation. Just by not putting our heads in the sand simply by recognizing the real problems, we can offer society a real way of overcoming them. And at the same time, dear friends, that's not what I said, and all our international partners say that in the last four years, you and I have managed to make far more positive changes in Ukraine than in the previous 23 years of independence. We saved the country. The Kremlin of Barbarossa, the Putinian Blitzkrieg, the Russian Spring Plan -- all of this took place over a period of months. You and I formed an army that liberated two thirds of the territory of Donbas, which was occupied in the spring of 2014. [[Applause]] An army that has located the conflict and has a strong defense on the front line. It protects the country throughout the perimeter of the Ukrainian-Russian border. You and I have strengthened our international authority, organized a transatlantic coalition of Ukraine with a regime of firm sanctions against the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. We signed and won the Kremlin's diplomatic battle for ratifying the Association Agreement and for a deeper and inclusive free trade zone with the European Union and finally began to get the first big results from it. We jumped off a Russian "gas needle" where the presidents, prime ministers, governments sat for many years. It would seem that they were destined to sit on it forever and not: for two years now we have not bought gas in Russia, but a brilliant victory over a $ 4.6 billion Gazprom lawsuit in Stockholm arbitration has lifted us from the heavy burden of the 2009 cabal gas agreements. [[Applause]] As we know, thanks to these agreements, Ukraine has overpaid the Kremlin with tens of billions of dollars, and avoiding the default since the end of 2016 is also our achievement. Economic growth has been restored. And yesterday, in the second quarter, the gross domestic product of Ukraine increased by 3.8 percent. Yeah, it's not the number that completely suits us, but it's a solid indicator of the country's economic growth. It is of particular importance that we in the humanitarian sphere have decommunized, recognized at the national level, finally, after 25 years of independence of the army of the UNR and the Ukrainian rebel army as participants in national-liberal competitions. What, then, was not done before? [[Applause]] They formed a clear policy of national memory to strengthen Ukrainian identity. The position of the Ukrainian language on radio, television, cinematography, and book publishing was greatly enhanced. Yesterday I had the opportunity at the Lviv Book Forum to make sure of that. Because if there was a problem before how to force Ukrainians not to read Russian books, but to read Ukrainian, I can tell you today that this has happened. And if roads and schools are being repaired in your city or village, lighting the streets, taking out garbage, you are certainly talented with a city or a village head. Because it really takes a smart head to manage wisely the funds that are being transferred to places, and today this is more than 51 percent of the budget that is being budgeted as a result of our decentralization programme. The positive developments that I was just talking about needed responsible and time-consuming decisions by Parliament, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. And I am grateful for working together with the people's deputies, the ministers, the Chief of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parubia, Prime Minister Groissman, Yatsenyuk, and all those who have done so. [[Applause]] And all of us together have to thank the great Ukrainian people for the remarkable changes that have become possible as a result of the war effort on the front and the hard work in the back of the nation's expansion. [[Applause]] Dear compatriots! Of course, in a short message, I can't cover everything, especially the fact that it's thematically focused on the issues of our European and Euro-Atlantic strategy. Your attention is traditionally given to an analytical report prepared by the National Institute of Strategic Research, but I will stop, first of all, on issues that fall within the direct functions of the President, and I would like to pay the highest attention to issues of foreign policy and defence, guarantees of sovereignty, rights and freedoms of citizens, and the general strategy of state building. I'll start with the Army. Only 6,000 fully equipped to fight in the spring of 2014 could stand up the Armed Forces of Ukraine when the aggression of the Russian Federation against our state began. And then, if the transport was with the wheels, it was with the fuel, with the batteries. And it's no reproach to the military, it's a sentence to politicians, prime ministers, defence ministers, who for years have cut down on their own, sold their weapons, scattered their property, butchered hospitals, military towns, polygons, looted the land; a little bit more, they would have let the soldiers out of the hammer. [[Applause]] That's what it's called making money in the army. And as a result, our soldiers came out to protect Motherland barefoot and bare against the largest army on the continent. And yet, by concentrating all the resources available at that time, thanks to the courage of the soldiers and the powerful volunteer movement, thanks to the volunteers, we stopped the aggressor. [[Applause]] In the summer of 14, there was a lot of time to spend and a lot of money on food, clothing, shoes, medicine cabinets, helmets. The armored vests for most parts were completely removed from their weapons and were not planning to be purchased, as was unloading, and other essential items. They collected everything in peace by thread. And today we're going to have to take a completely different height: these are new technologies, modernization, weapons, rearming, the exact transition to NATO standards, taking into account our unique experience of Russian aggression. And weapons upgrades take place on the basis of a importing strategy, where we got rid of total dependence on supply from the Russian Federation. And just imagine that in 13 years this dependence on different types of weapons was between 50 and 70 percent. And it's necessary to do it in the same way and in more order. And really, we've gone to 3 percent of GDP for defense, and this is the first time there's an independent Ukraine, and a huge achievement. It's sensitive to the state budget, and it's sensitive to the economy, but it's quite modest compared to the military spending of the aggressor country. Our defense needs are clearly far beyond our capabilities, and we need to work with you to find nonstandard solutions. Society, the Armed Forces are waiting for breakthrough systemic solutions — defence decisions. And I demand military leadership from the non-standard asymmetric responses to any scenarios and opponent's plans. Our army is becoming an army of a new generation of Ukrainians, the army has mastered the modern forms of fighting in all areas of traditional and new, including informational and cyberspace. High-precision long-term firearms, high-tech intelligence, efficient management systems, space support, echelon anti-air defence, powerful special forces we created, renewed naval forces and other signs of the modern army are to become and gradually become reality in Ukraine. Yes, our intentions are ambitious, but real. We are already planning an active development and preparation of production and purchase of modern high-precision rocket weapons, accurate ammunition for new artillery systems, armoured equipment, high-precision other means of damage. And the order of the day of the coming is the rise of the defense of the Ukrainian part of the waterfront and the coast of the Azov Sea. From the Ministry of Defence, I demand that the General Staff expedite the achievement by the defence sector of the North Atlantic Alliance standards, just as well as full operational compatibility with the armies of the member states of this defence and political bloc. But in all the transformations, there must be people in the first place, special people who have chosen the profession, the profession of defender of the country. [[Applause]] People, our soldiers, who risk themselves daily on the front lines of the defense of the state. Therefore, in order of the day - to - day system of transformations in human resources policies, opportunities for transparent and equitable career growth, military education, and security matters. And in line with my proposed decision, the National Security and Defence Council in the State Budget is expected to increase by at least 37 percent. And in October, we're finally going to start putting into operation new dormitories for contractors -- 184 new rooms that will accommodate about 23,000 contract soldiers. Part of this year, part of it is early next year. Once again, I would like to remind you that the sources for financing all these objects are the funds that the efforts of the law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General’s Office, have been confiscated from the previous authorities. In addition, another social project is planned – "complex apartments for a sergeant's corps", which is also the basis of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's part of a building and building project. And it's appropriate to remind ourselves that these and other projects are being implemented through the active support of partner states, advisors, instructors from the armed forces of NATO member states. And you and I have to do everything we can to create comfortable conditions for experienced soldiers. To motivate professionals to contract long-term with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Encourage those who for various reasons have been released to return to the army. In fact, we owe our soldiers an unpaid debt. In general, there is no amount that can be measured by what they do for our nation. The new army must have a modern ideology. And here the changes are obvious. The deradanization of the army is the new names of military forces, new greetings, new signs, new traditions, new holidays, like the Motherland Defender's Day. Remember, four years ago we were still celebrating, actually, they were celebrating February 23rd. Not all our defense plans have been implemented, and not all the issues have been resolved. We see clearly the weak spots. The issues of national security and the defense of the state remain for me as the President and for our entire team as an absolute daily priority. Dear Ukrainians! The most reliable allies of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the protection of the Fatherland are our diplomats, who operate under extremely difficult conditions. Their work requires much experience and skill. The world is debilitating, global and regional security systems are ineffective, under great threat. Ukraine is in the epicenter of processes that determine the future of the continent and the world. And I would like to thank the parliament, the government that introduced this project, for adopting the relevant Law on Diplomatic Service, a sharp increase in the financing of Ukrainian diplomacy. Because the task facing Ukrainian diplomats is unique. Russian aggression surprised the West suddenly. All the important signals were ignored: and the provocation on Tuzla; and the openly aggressive speech by the Russian President at the Munich Security Forum in 2007, where he, in principle, warned everyone about everything; and the attack in 2008 by Russia on Georgia; and the first reaction to the occupation of Crimea turned out to be extremely languid and toothless. And even now, after thousands of Russian-induced victims on Donbas, after the MH17 tragedy, after Syria, after Solsbury in the West, many willing to look Putina into the soul, do I still not know where I am and what do you want to see there, gentlemen? [[Applause]] Still, in everyone's eyes: Russia supports right and left-wing movements, excites Euroscepticism, intervenes in elections around the world, intervenes in referendums, as was the case in the Netherlands. In this way the Kremlin is advancing its alternative order of the day, its alternative values, hoping that the West will become increasingly difficult to maintain a single position on Moscow. One who thinks that Russian aggression automatically provides automatic support to the West is deeply wrong. That's not true. And for support, we have to fight every day. And over the past 4.5 years, we have managed not only to create and maintain a powerful transatlantic coalition to support Ukraine, but to significantly expand and strengthen it. The principle of "nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine" has become an axiom of international politics. The suggestions to break it and arrange it in our backs from time to time are actually coming out every month, and we're out of it. And no one is denying our European identity anymore. Over the next year, I plan to make practical progress on my initiatives to integrate Ukraine into the digital common energy union market, as well as to increase cooperation in the customs field. But to move on, first of all, we need to implement the Association Agreement from the first to the last letter. The speed of its implementation is not yet enough. And I urge Parliament and the government to move at a better pace. I'm ready to be a partner in this process. Moreover, each day the covenant proves its effectiveness and validity. The share of the European Union in exports varies from 42 to 43 percent, and this is a major contributor to the losses caused by the war, the economic blockade, the closure of the markets by Russia. He's heavy, but he's not good enough. And that's why last month, at the annual meeting of the heads of foreign diplomatic institutions, a number of our embassies were criticized in Latin America, Africa, Asia. Are the markets of these countries not important for the sale of our goods and the creation of new jobs in Ukraine? We need to look for more and more trading partners, building points in regional markets that show high growth rates, where there's demand for our products. We learn foreign political pragmatism, and we find the best way for us to continue playing in even the most complex parties. In particular, this approach has enabled us to build an effective relationship with the new American administration. What is worthy of the decision of the President of the United States to provide Ukraine with air defence weapons? And that's just the beginning. Such cooperation will continue. [[Applause]] On Tuesday, the United States Senate approved a 19th-year budget for the Pentagon, which envisions $250 million for security assistance to Ukraine. And this is the best evidence that there is a very high level of trust between Kiev and Washington. Of course, we cannot help but worry about the differences between key players in world trade. They have a global dimension and they're going to affect our economy, obviously not with a positive sign. The external risks that make our situation more difficult also include a surge in left and legal populism, an increase in Eurosceptic moods, non-democratic trends in some neighbouring countries, a hybrid attack by Russia on the United States, the European Union, and Ukraine. Some of us are offended that sanctions in connection with the annexation of Crimea and the Russian occupation of Donbas appear softer than those introduced later in response to an intervention in elections or a chemical attack in Solsbury. The unpleasant sediment is, of course, there is. On the other hand, it is vital that sanctions against Moscow are now not only related to Ukraine. Why? Because that means that Russia is not just our problem, it is a threat to the entire civilized world. And we will consistently resist attempts to reduce the sanctions pressure on Russia. The Kremlin's tactical task is to lift sanctions in January next year under the alleged failure of Ukraine to implement the Minsk Accords – I think we should destroy this scenario. Almost convinced that we will not allow the film to be taken. However, know that there is a risk of mitigation. The fact that Russia is so persistently fighting sanctions only shows that they are effective, they work because the ruble is falling even when oil prices are rising. Russian authorities are forced to increase their retirement age. The Russian authorities went to raise VAT. That is the price of aggression. Last year, an unpleasant surprise for the Kremlin was the extension by the Ukrainian Parliament of the Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. By your responsible vote, it was you, the distinguished national MPs, who beat the goat out of Putin’s hands. [[Applause]] And I want to point out that the Russians then had to substantially adjust their tactics. Now they've got that map again. The Kremlin and its dumplings try to convince the European community of the unwillingness of the Ukrainian side to continue the law. This, according to the Russian Federation, seems to be evidence of Ukraine’s inability to do so, to make a commitment, so to speak, sanctions should be lifted. Agree, it would be a criminal mistake to give Moscow a chance to accuse Ukraine of failing to make deals and to achieve a reduction in sanctions pressure. I'm absolutely convinced that this is definitely not a Ukrainian script. At the same time, I stress that real progress in regulation should be demonstrated, with a major indicator of harmonization of deployment parameters on the Donbas peacekeeping mission under the auspices of the United Nations. And that's what I'm going to talk about next week during a visit and a New York speech at the United Nations General Assembly. The mission must be expanded throughout Ukraine. It is mandatory to go to the Ukrainian - Russian border. And this will allow you to create conditions for the execution of part of the Minsk Accords, including the withdrawal of Russian troops from occupied Ukrainian territory. If this does not happen, the Law on the Special Order of Local Self - Rule will never work. That's got to be our logic. The whole responsibility for the collapse of the mine process is exactly what Russia needs to do. No matter how many spears are broken around Minsk, it is through these arrangements that we have managed to stop the active phase of aggression and achieve the sanctions regime and, above all, to win time and build an army, and to move from mobilization to contractual assembly of frontal units. And the Kremlin is trying to convince our allies that Ukraine is preparing a powerful rescue scenario for Donbas. Of course, we have to have a similar option, every army has to be ready for any scenario. There is a right to self - defense in Ukraine, according to article 51 of the United Nations Statute, and we have highlighted this separately in the recently approved Law on the Reintegration of Donbas. But our strategy for peace is to achieve a political and diplomatic path, because this option is optimal for Ukraine and is in our national interest. Russia’s attack began with an attempt to annex Crimea. His return is to end, including compensation for the damage that has been caused and the provision of effective guarantees for the nonrepetition of aggression. We fight for it in international courts, and we're sure we'll win in Stockholm. Gazprom is going to pay us a total of 4.6 billion dollars. We convince the world that any concessions to the Kremlin without restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity are defeat, defeat and freedom, the loss of democratic Europe and the victory of authoritarian Asia. And in the meantime, we have the whole country surrounded by running boards calling for compromise with the aggressor. Almost every pillar was filled with doves of peace, but it was a shadow of them. [[Applause]] Just a shadow from them, from these doves, like from a two-headed man. And do not be misled by the soothing vortex, for in the beaks of these turtledoves the seed of peace is on Russian terms. [[Applause]] Peace is a beautiful and attractive envelope that you can put anything into. So we need to keep on the watch. Let us not forget that the enemy did not come here for Crimea and the enemy did not come here for Donbas – the enemy came all over Ukraine, and without Ukraine the empire is not possible. So where are we going to keep the boundary of what's called compromise? By Donz, by Dniper, or by Confusion? The desire for real peace on the basis of Ukrainian interest, the fight for it, the issue of sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine and our civilisational choice are not, and I stress, will not be the object of compromise. Because otherwise we will not be, or we will be no longer us, or another nation’s soldiers will be standing here. So on the question, what is not the question of "to be or not to be?" (to be or not), we are, of course, ready for diplomatic flexibility, because, in fact, there is no easy and easy road to peace, especially in the face of an enemy whose military potential is much greater. And no one wants peace more than we Ukrainians do, for as no one else does, we know what war really is. And once again, the fuse of war, and the keys to peace, they don't go to Kiev, not Brussels or Washington -- they're in Moscow. But peace will not bring us the peace of an aggressor, nor will it agree on Russia’s terms. True and just peace will only lead us to strengthen the security of our country, strengthen our army, strengthen our diplomatic corps, and strengthen our unity within the country. [[Applause]] The pursuit of peace and victory has both a strong front and a reliable backdrop, unity and unity of society in the fight against the enemy. And to strengthen that unity is to create the only local Orthodox Ukrainian Church. [[Applause]] As I said before, the Ecumenical Patriarch's exarches, after rejecting all diplomatic terms, said to me, "The process of autocathalization to Ukraine is moving towards the finish line." They said it publicly. [[Applause]] I don’t know when Tomos will get his approval or when he will be brought to Kiev. But I'm sure that the wheel of this story we've set up with you so that no one will be able to bring it back. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that another 100 years ago, the issue of autocephaly was put in order by the Ukrainian National Republic for the day. 27 years ago, Ukraine renewed the struggle for auto-cefalia, but I stress that the last four years have been decisive, first quiet, and now public diplomacy, including yours, the distinguished national deputies, aid. As the Scriptures indicate, we will not worship foreign gods with you, nor will the State intervene in the internal affairs of the church. Especially the foreign state. [[Applause]] Why are they fighting so hard for this? Because the empire is losing one of the last weights of influence. Tomos is actually another act of declaring Ukraine's independence. For us, our own church is a guarantee of spiritual freedom, a guarantee of social harmony. I guarantee that the state will respect the choice of those who decide to remain in that church structure that will preserve unity with the Russian Orthodox Church and call it the same, and it will be in order to make it easier to understand. [[Applause]] But at the same time, I guarantee that the state will protect and do not fear them, protect the rights of those priests and laymen of the OPC of the Moscow Patriarchate who will voluntarily decide to leave Moscow to create the only local Orthodox Church. [[Applause]] Another important thing is that the meaning of Tomos goes far beyond the borders of Ukraine. What is it? And this is the fall of Third Rome as Moscow's oldest conceptual claim to world hegemony. Here, in our territories, the future of the world's Orthodoxy is being resolved, and the Russians and I also understand it completely differently, and that's another reason why the Russians and I are not on the road. They have the so-called "strengthening" of the authoritarian regime, and we, as the largest Orthodox country in Europe, will demonstrate as organically, in one national body, use Christianity of the Eastern ritual and democracy. Saving democracy in an environment of external aggression was not easy, although the state of war would greatly strengthen the President's authority and capabilities. I firmly rejected the offer to introduce it. In times of war, we did not restrict the political rights and freedoms of citizens, nor did we censor. The President's constitutional capacity for the parliamentary-presidential model is not very much in line with this degree of responsibility that society traditionally relies on the elected head of state. But even in the most difficult years, when the country was literally smothered by too many internal and external problems, the President never once asked for an increase in his authority. Moreover, some of them refused, if you did not notice, the appointment of judges, including judges. And in the country, there's now a system of restraints and opposites. Ukrainians are not inclined to give a monopoly to govern one political power. Power is a coalition character. Our government is essentially coalition. The largest is the coalition. In fact, there is also the largest parliamentary faction. And at the same time, you and I are all very successful in finding common ground. We've all endorsed a record number of reform decisions together. The President does not impose vetoes on laws very often, and he has never exercised his legitimate constitutional right to suspend the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in all years, with simultaneous referral to the Constitutional Court. The European strategy dictates an algorithm for the development of the political system as a parliamentary-presidential representative democracy, with the country requiring the President and the Supreme Commander to organize an effective defence and defence of the country, which is the main work of the Head of State. Last year I rejected numerous proposals for constitutional changes in the political system. I believe that before the elections, such manoeuvres do not correspond to a European political culture that teaches us to play by the rules, not by the rules, but, of course, with the interest of following a social debate, and I find it absolutely unacceptable that proposals that are clearly non-democratic. Someone openly advocates educated authoritarianism, and someone is embezzling this authoritarianism into the parliamentary type of chancellorism. And only if you read into the content, not the title, is there a chancellor of authority more than a Kaiser. In fact, the Reichstag creates a one-party system. The regime of one - person power has not brought good Ukraine to anything, and this is a lesson to be remembered by all. [[Applause]] The ghost of authoritarianism is not the only challenge associated with the upcoming elections. There's also a threat to the rematch. And unfortunately, there are figures on the Ukrainian political chessboard that allow Moscow to walk on its own. Over the course of four years, we have restored not only the army but also the intelligence, so we have not an approximate but a fairly accurate view of the Kremlin’s plans. The fifth column is known to dream of forming a powerful pro-Russian opposition in the new parliament. And if you're lucky, you can also make her a member of a new coalition with the right of veto to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We see the fifth column raising its head, trying to gather the different sherengs, using the benefits of democracy, getting very active in the information space, and our task is extremely difficult to give them back without violating the norms of European democracy. And I can see that by the power of law, by the power of conviction, there is no chance for those who might question our own path -- the path of independence, the path of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Yet some Ukrainian politicians are distributing fairy tales of Russian propaganda, trying to remove the aggressor’s responsibility for war, cynically translating it from Russia to Ukraine. [[Applause]] And some TV channels, newspapers, internet releases have become just untraceable pits of Russian propaganda. I share the opinion of the Head of the Supreme Council that during the election the issue of information security is one of the main issues, and that part of our information field is as occupied as part of the Ukrainian territory of the sovereign. [[Applause]] And, my friends, I'm glad that Parliament is also aware of the depth of this problem, although it's not interesting to anyone. In Ukraine, the media - controlled network of Russian media agencies is still in operation, producing independent public organizations. They're really independent, but they're independent of Ukraine and controlled by the Kremlin, and they blow up. [[Applause]] Anti - Ukrainian, anti - European, and anti - American sentiments are being blown up. And so I support the idea of a bill to register agents of the influence of the Russian Federation's aggressor state. [[Applause]] Thus, such a law will in no way affect civil society, the media, or freedom of speech. I would also like to urge the country not to be destroyed by populism, to evaluate clearly the unprecedented complexity of the challenges and threats faced by Ukraine. Most of them don't have simple solutions, don't believe it. My own experience has taught me how important it is to be very careful and responsible about the promises you make to people. And more than four years ago, I said that ATO would last hours, not months. I regret that I had given birth to excess expectations, so a few weeks ago I apologized for giving up hope that had not come true. Of course, I apologized, but I would like this story to be a lesson not only for me but also for all Ukrainian politicians. To respond to all the risks and threats, we have a responsible choice when it comes not only to elect a President, but to choose not only a new Parliament, but to confirm precisely the invariance of our pro-European state course. Friends, until the start of the electoral cycle, there is little time left. Almost March 31st, and there are parliamentary elections ahead of time. I thank the People's Deputies for this week's adoption of the law that unlocks the process of adopting the new Central Electoral Commission. As President, I guarantee free, honest, democratic elections of the head of state, a new parliament and local self-government authorities as they were held in 14-15 years. The process of expression must be in line with our European strategy and once again recommend Ukraine as a leader in meeting the standards of democracy in post-Radians space. I am sure that the party programs have already written a promise to undo the parliamentary immunity. I insist that the relevant amendments to the Constitution be voted on without delay. He asked for the assignment, the honourable national deputies, and offered to introduce it from the following occasion. The Constitutional Court has given good and the moment of truth has come. Let us be honest with the people. And please vote. And if not, don't ever promise that again. That's fair. Dear Ukrainians, honourable national MPs, our European strategy is a two-way movement. Not only Ukraine's membership in the European Union, but also Ukraine's deep internal Europeanisation. To become a European country means to fully embrace the European spirit of political freedom, fair competition, equality of opportunity is what is called open access. The countries of Europe have been coming to him for centuries. This way, we have to keep going for 10 years at most. The Ukrainian economy needs enormous investment and new jobs to accelerate growth. In the World Bank's Doing Business rating, Ukraine rose 61 steps in five years. In just one year, we passed laws that directly affect the improvement of the investment climate: privatization laws have finally repealed the sad currency decree, which is 25 years old, passed the Monetary Act, limited and additional liability societies. Thank you for supporting the President's proposal for a "one window" on customs, providing macro-financial stability, the exact exit of Ukraine from the default zone. Investors noted the results of an anti-corruption strategy such as ProZorro, which was recognized by investors as the most transparent system of public procurement. Electronic automatic VAT compensation, gas sector cleaning, the creation of a High Anti-Corruption Court, etc. In $6 billion, experts estimate the effect of these anti-corruption measures. Last week, I was there to sign two big investment deals totaling almost $1 billion. It's just last week. One of these concerns alternative energy, which is planned to be built in the Hersonian region. Another major investment in the APC during independence will also be made in the territory of four Ukrainian regions. So foreign investors finally believe in the perspective of our country and create new jobs here. We have several world trade brands coming out one by one and probably in the sense of increasing Ukrainian purchasing power. And that's a positive trend that we need to step up. And before the election, we were able to pass the Tax Act on the resulting capital, which supports the Ukrainian producer. Although, to be honest, it would be more appropriate to call it the law on the tax on the withdrawal of capital. You don't have to get out, you put it in Ukraine. Because it stimulates investment in production. The Act on Concessions, the Act on Improving Bankruptcy, on Business Ombudsman, on Strengthening the Personal Responsibility of the Supervisory Authorities. Finally, a bill on the National Bureau of Financial Investigation is very important. Unfortunately, he was put under a dress in Parliament because he seems to be strengthening the President's authority, increasing. Well, of course, I'm glad that six months before the election, I thank you for such a positive assessment of my political prospects. But it's different. The point is that the barriers to business are the pressures of the entire haystack of power organs, law enforcement agencies. We have to stop. This is fair in terms of Ukrainian business. And I, the honourable people's deputies, have no hope of supporting this bill, so necessary to improve the investment climate. At the same time, I realize that unfortunately, the chances of a balanced government decision to create, for example, a civilised market for land will be difficult to carry out now. If anyone is interested in how this deaf corner fits into our European strategy, he would like to remind us that the European Court of Human Rights has admitted that the moratorium on free market circulation violates the rights of Ukrainians. [[Applause]] Steps to improve the investment climate. In the eyes is the dew of God. Steps in investment climate improvement and job creation are accompanied by a continuation of employment legalization policies, an increase in wages, which in turn will enable pensions to be increased. My regulars, together with the government, with the force of encounters with business associations, employers are increasingly complaining, not about pressure, but about labour deficits. The iron curtain on the border, as in Soviet times, will not be laid. Dear employers, the only way out is to increase your wages. [[Applause]] If you want the Ukrainians not to go abroad, they'll work for us. In the wage market, you have to be competitive. I've already talked about Ukraine becoming part of the only European labour market. And there's no competition kids here either. Dear Ukrainians, the smoke of war has not yet spread over this part of Europe. But through it it is clear: Ukraine can become and will be a new story of success, a new space of European growth. As one foreign friend of our country put it literally during the past four years, Ukraine has found its identity and has been established as a dynamic European force. What do we need? Be brave. This requires a vision of the future, what is called vision in English. It's definitely what we have. We know that there is no more compelling argument for European Ukraine than success. The next generation of Ukrainians are to pass on a successful European Ukraine. And that's what will happen if we don't put the country in the hands of the rematchers, the populists, and the demagogs. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u3	Let us thank the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We also thank the government, headed by the Prime Minister, for participating in our meeting and all those who participated in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm calling it a five-minute break. In five minutes, we will continue with the first question of order of the day – changes to the Constitution. So at 11:12 I ask everyone to be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u4	So, dear colleagues, we've taken a break from the Rules, and we're moving on to the following issues of the agenda, since we have a very busy schedule today. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that the first issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union). The second is draft Law 6236 on the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens to land. The third is the draft Ordinance on the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (on the subject of inviolability). And the last, the deputy, is a draft of the Inviolability Order. That's what we can do by lunch, colleagues. That's why I'm asking for a high level of discipline. After lunch, at 16 o'clock, we're moving on to the matter of updating the CBC warehouse. I want to report that the law is signed and published, which paves the way for all factions and groups in Parliament to be represented in the CLTC, as recommended by PARJE. A tense, important agenda, and I stress once again, an important discipline. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and continue our work. I'll wait another 30 seconds. So, colleagues, I'm announcing the beginning of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State to acquire full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) (No. 9037). And I'd like to invite you. The bill, introduced by the President of Ukraine in accordance with articles 93 and 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Dear voters! Your attention is given to the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and defined as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution (for the strategic course of the State to acquire full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) (registration number 9037 from 03.09.2018). The legislative initiative was proposed on a number of important issues. First of all, Russian armed aggression has led to radical changes in Ukraine's security environment, which has led to the need for a clear consolidation in the Basic Law of the State of Inevitability of Ukraine's Civil Selection, which is a feature of Ukraine's European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Secondly, the vast majority of Ukrainian society supports the path towards full membership of Ukraine in the EU and NATO, recognizing that this is a key guarantee for the development and security of the democratic rule of law. And thirdly, European and Euro-Atlantic integration is clearly in the interests of Ukraine. Moreover, the proposed changes should not only provide for Ukraine’s development in the Basic Law but also fortify the main achievements of the Dignity Revolution. For the purpose of the above draft law, it is proposed that the following amendments be made to the Constitution of Ukraine. To supplement the preamble with provisions on the confirmation of the European identity of the Ukrainian people and the irreversibility of the European and Euro-Atlantic course of Ukraine. To establish that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will also include the implementation of the strategic course of the State for the full acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The President of Ukraine will act as guarantor of the State's strategic course for full membership. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure the implementation of the State's strategic course for full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It is also proposed to exclude from the Basic Law the status according to which existing military bases and their use in Ukraine for the temporary stay of foreign military formations are possible under the terms of lease in accordance with the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, making appropriate changes will contribute to the European and Euro-Atlantic choices of Ukraine through increased and enhanced cooperation between Ukraine and the EU and NATO until full membership, strengthening national security, ensuring the protection of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Three minutes to question, please record. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u7	Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u8	Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u9	Dear reporter! I have a question for you right now to the part on which the President has pointed out today is the cancellation of the "Transitional Positions" point on the location of foreign military bases in Ukraine for the consent of the Supreme Council. Since the Constitution clearly states in article 17 that the deployment of military bases in Ukraine is prohibited, we determine our course towards NATO, Euro-Atlantic integration. We now have a direct threat of further possible invasion by the Russian Federation, and perhaps the allies who want to see us in NATO are ready to assist us with the presence of their military forces, perhaps in the Azov Sea, perhaps in the Black Sea. If this point is still eliminated, which gives some speciality to the Constitution for the consent of the Supreme Council to allow the Americans, to allow other NATO participating countries to base their armies in Ukraine, not military units, but their military bases. Or we can make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue and talked about what we're throwing out here because the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the conclusion of international agreements that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, only after the relevant changes have been made to it. Today, article 17, paragraph 7, of the Constitution prohibits foreign bases in Ukraine. At the same time, article 85 of the Constitution, along with article 92, obliges the Supreme Council of Ukraine to allow foreign troops to reside in Ukraine. We are also being conducted in accordance with the new Ukrainian National Security Act to standardize our military infrastructure. And no law in Ukraine forbids the granting of our infrastructure military objects, I stress, objects to be made available by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is provided for in article 85 and article 92 of the Constitution, in order to make the possibility possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u11	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u12	The Supreme Council will grant permission, and Ukraine may grant military infrastructure to Ukraine without making any adjustments to the Constitution to the military contingent. For that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Next, I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u14	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I'm going to try two questions in this one minute. The first question I have is very technical in the text of the bill. Tell me, why do we give authority to both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and the President, who are in principle enshrined in the Constitution? So it's just for a beautiful text? And what is the meaning of this? Because so far, the Supreme Council has already defined foreign and domestic policy, today's Cabinet of Ministers, and it has to ensure it, whether it's Euro-integration or not, and the President is our guarantor, in principle, of the Constitution and all. and other laws. And the second question I have is, why isn't there anything in the Constitution that's really necessary and what's happened in other countries that have done Euro-integration? In particular, the question that we recognize part of the European acts under our Association Agreement as such, which is also the legislation of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. Answer. The draft Law establishes an idea for the distribution of powers between the President, Parliament and the Government, which would correspond to the basic constitutional principles, including the principles of competence, balance, unity, deterrence and opposition. It's for licorice. The principle of competence is the distribution of functions depending on the powers of the organs; the balance is the uniform division of powers; the principle of unity is the authority united by a single purpose; the principle of restraints and opposites is the ability, control, interdependence and mutual control. Thus, the bill states that the definition of principles, or the writing of laws, is reliable. The course for the European Union and NATO relies, in fact, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the sole body of legislative authority. We're inserting this point because the principles have to vote, actually, national MPs. The Cabinet of Ministers, as executive, should ensure that these principles, namely the enforcement of laws, are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u16	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u17	These principles are being implemented. In turn, the President of Ukraine, as the governing entity, must become the guarantor of this realization. There were offers "supplies," but the president has to make a "guarantee." Let us not forget that the Constitution is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And as a reporter for this important bill, you will have the opportunity to summarize our discussion after speaking to the factions and groups. Thank you. He is invited to report to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice. Please, Mr. Ruslan, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u19	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, allow me to comment on the committee's position on the bill. But what I want to talk about right now is that, in fact, there's not really any kind of substantive consideration of the bill right now. In accordance with the 159 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, we can consider essentially any bill amending the Constitution only if it is given a positive conclusion on the relevance of 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution, if it is not given any warnings. We are now at the stage of the consideration of the inclusion of the bill in the agenda and possible referral to the Constitutional Court, which is very important. At the same time, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and Justice, having received a corresponding mandate from the Head of the Supreme Council since 3 September 2018, considered at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State for the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization under registration number 9037 of 3 September 2018). According to part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, within the scope of the subject matter of knowledge, it is very important, I want to insist, our committee is a professional committee to follow the procedure for amending the Constitution, the committee has reached the following conclusions. According to article 154 of the Basic Law, the bill was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an appropriate subject of the legislative initiative, namely, the President of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill does not require a system-wide uniformity of the Constitution of Ukraine at the same time as the introduction to Chapter I of General Principles, Chapter III of Elections. The referendum, and corresponding to chapter XI of the "Implementation of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine", was the result of an all-U.S. referendum and the approval of such changes in the U.S. referendum. During the consideration of draft laws, there was no military or extraordinary situation in the order provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft amendment to the preamble of articles 85, 102 and 116 and paragraph 14 of Section XIV of the “Transitional Positions” of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council has not been considered. During its term of office, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Convention did not change the position of these articles of the Basic Law. In view of this, the Committee believes that it is appropriate to submit a bill in accordance with the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain an appropriate conclusion with the simultaneous inclusion in the agenda, respectively, of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. In addition, I remind you that the procedure for amending the Constitution provides that a whole range of other committees defined by the Supreme Council Rules Act should give their conclusions to the committee of profile, in this case our committee, in order to be able to adopt the relevant decisions. Such conclusions came from the National Security and Defence Committee, which recommended the inclusion of a draft bill in the agenda and that it be sent to the Constitutional Court; the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, which had not identified any corruption factors in the text; and the Committee on European Integration, which recommended the inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Bill. Today, accordingly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs concluded. This conclusion is not reflected in the above-mentioned conclusion of the committee, but I want to sound it because it's important. The committee responsible recommended the inclusion in the agenda of the Constitutional Court, and should it be included in the agenda, it recommends to the Supreme Council that further consideration of the bill in question should be submitted to the Provisional Special Commission, which the Committee believes should have been established after we have received the relevant conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Taking into account article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Constitution (for the strategic course of the State for the acquisition of full membership in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) (No. 9037) to include in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council the eighth vocation and to refer to the Constitutional Court for a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u20	Thank you for your time. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to a distinguished colleague. Please sign up. National MP Musai, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u21	Good afternoon, Your Honor. Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. Please tell us, under the Constitution in general, we live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. And the return of the Constitution in the form it is now, thank God, after Yanukovic's rematch, we have returned the parliamentary-presidential model. And the repeal of these Transitional Regulations, where Parliament is still being removed from the decision-making process and is being passed on to the President (of course, the Supreme Council can delegate authority, it can do something with them), will it not be treated by our colleagues and society as an attempt by the Presidential Vertical to put the crown of the Constitution on the side of the Presidential Parliamentary Republic? Is that the principle of cancelling these "transitional positions," or is that not the principle of constitutionalism?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u22	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to say one more time. We are not currently considering the bill in fact, we are only formally proposing that it be placed in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, not only should the Constitutional Court be empowered to review not only the conformity of 157 articles of the Constitution, 158 articles of the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court has been empowered to examine the entire content of the bill in accordance with all the provisions of the Constitution, including the Transitional Statute. And if, in their conclusions, they take any warning from this point of view, the Supreme Council Rules stipulate that we are obliged to take these warnings into account and continue the work of Parliament in this direction in order to remove these warnings. We'll see what the Constitutional Court's conclusion will be, then we'll react in the session room together to this kind of conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, next question from Sergio Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u25	Dear reporter, Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. An understandable conclusion of the committee that you represent, which only analyses the positions that relate to the order of changes to the Constitution. But as far as I know, there's a conclusion from the Committee on Foreign Affairs that clearly sets out the elimination of contradictions that exist in the context, because they exist. Do you think this should be taken into account when voting in the session room, or is that the conclusion, like the conclusions of other committees, directly addressed to the Constitutional Court to take account of the elimination of these contradictions by the Constitutional Court itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Well, with regard to the conclusions of other committees, as far as the Law on the Rules of Conduct was concerned, they gave each of them their own portion of the bill in essence. As a committee of legal policy, we can't be part of the bill because it's not a subject of our committee's knowledge. With regard to how Parliament will continue to act, at this stage we have no other manoeuvre, we are obliged to refer to the Constitutional Court, because, I remind you, the Constitution is two intended entities for possible initiators for amending the Constitution, the President and not less than a third of the parliamentarians. At the same time, parliamentarians have the opportunity to direct their bill directly to the Constitutional Court by decision of Parliament, the President indirectly, without having the authority to refer to the Constitutional Court, can do so through the Supreme Council. So at this point, we can't interfere in any way with the body of the law, but only in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court on certain warnings, including based on conclusions and profile and non-profile committees, as he has repeatedly done, can he point out some warnings that will be the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u27	Do you need to finish? Thank you. Please ask me the next question, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Sweet John, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u28	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Ruslane, please tell me that this draft amendment to the Constitution, which the President has tabled today, needs substantial elaboration. Sadly, they did not consult professionals when these changes were made. The idea, of course, is the right thing to do, as always. So the question is, what's the procedure, tell us as chairman of the committee after this bill comes back from the Constitutional Court? What do we have to do as a parliament to make the necessary amendments to this bill and to ensure that the changes to the Constitution are balanced, clear and that they correspond to common sense and, indeed, to the things Ukraine needs, including after Ukraine becomes a member of NATO? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u29	Dear John Ivanovich, if you don't mind, I'll start by not introducing the bill today. He brought it in on September 3rd. And the committee is only deliberately considering a bill today. We've been waiting for the 14th day of the bill to be passed. And the law clearly states that if there are, in the Supreme Council, national MPs, any warnings at the time of introduction, they can take advantage of their rights and introduce an alternative bill. Now we can make it clear that this term has passed and that this right to MP has not been exercised. Individual committees have actually given some warnings in their conclusions. These conclusions, together with the conclusion of the profiling committee and if the relevant decision of today’s Supreme Council is taken, as a package of documents will be referred to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is considering them as a whole, a single document. And it often happens that it takes into account certain standards that exist in its conclusions and concludes them. The finding of the Constitutional Court is not only a resolution part corresponding to 157th, 158th, it is, as the law says, a whole document where the motivational and resolution part has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u30	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u31	They have the same legal power as there are many precedents. That is why we will see if today's decision is taken what will be the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, and we can move on to the bill accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u32	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I ask you to return to your workplace. My fellow Members, I am now very much asking all the MPs and factions to sign up for the discussion of the bill of amendments proposed by the President to the Constitution. And now we're going to hear the position of MPs and factions, then the MPs. Please, Valery Pisarenko, present the position of the Rebirth Group. You're welcome. Excuse me, colleagues, I'm sorry. I had another page open. I'm so sorry. Please put Irina Fryz's position on Peter Dustenk's Block. Mrs. Irina, welcome to the rostrum. Again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u33	Not only does the President's initiative to amend the Constitution, but it also calls on all conscious democratic colleagues to support this initiative, as well as honourable colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc. The Parliament's strategic task is to protect the European and Euro-Atlantic path of our people, which has been chosen. Five years ago, when we went out to Euramydan, the whole world was determined by the fact that we saw our future, the future of our nation in the only democratic Western space. By supporting the idea of the Head of State, we will make it impossible to rematch the aggressor country. The position of the proposed changes determines Ukraine's strategic orientation for membership in NATO and the EU, extending the mandate of the Supreme Council, which is responsible for the implementation of the selected course. The President of Ukraine becomes the guarantor, and Kabmin is the enforcer of this strategy. An important addition, which is currently under discussion, is the repeal of article 14 of the Constitution in Transitional Positions on the deployment of military bases of other states in Ukraine. I emphasize that after the restoration of territorial integrity and the return of Crimea to Ukraine, no bottle of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation will remain on our land or our waterfront. So this is a very important and fundamental question. I'd like to point out that the Nazi bases don't interfere. On a date with. Because this is regulated by another provision of the same Constitution. In a meeting with the President of Ukraine, representatives of all democratic factions supported these Presidential initiatives. I am convinced that this vote today will be a clear indicator for our military personnel, who today are protecting our European and Euro-Atlantic choices for Ukrainian society, for our international partners, who are a true defender and advocate of democratic values and the Euro-Atlantic and European choices of our nation. We urge everyone to support this initiative of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! If anyone in this room thinks that the proposed political declaration is of interest to people on the street outside the walls of the Supreme Council, he is deeply mistaken. People behind the walls of Parliament are interested in different things, they are interested in when there will be peace, when tariffs are lowered, why prices are rising, and when corruption will be stopped. And the political declaration, which is proposed to vote on Parliament, will have no practical effect on Ukrainian citizens, and is part of the President's pre-election campaign. In general, all of this reminds me of the slogan that we all saw five years ago, which was called "live in a new way." Thus, in five years, 9 out of 10 Ukrainians became beggars. In addition, our faction believes that any radical, cardinal, important changes in our country's foreign policy course can only be accepted after consideration of the popular referendum, and when the people make their views known on this matter. And giving the right to make such decisions, even if they are declarative, to a parliament that today has the trust of as much as 4 percent of the population, is wrong. Our faction will vote against this decision. We believe that it is not what Ukrainian citizens need in today’s situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u36	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, of course, today is one of the most important issues in the history of the country -- changes to the Constitution. And not just the changes to the Constitution, but the definition and consolidation of Ukraine's constitutional membership rate in NATO and the EU. The question is very important. Our Rebirth Party and the deputies of our faction have repeatedly shown by their votes, by their actions one desire: we are for the introduction of a European path to Ukraine. We voted in favour of all the documents and laws that were passed through Parliament that were relevant to European integration, the visa-free regime that involved the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court, anti-corruption bodies, basically all the things that integrate us into the only European environment and the democratic country that are creating in Ukraine. But at the same time, we're talking about how decisions such as the change in the Constitution, the definition of the course of Ukraine, should be determined by an all-Ukrainian referendum. This is a question that all citizens of Ukraine must accept without exception, not separate policies before the political elections of the President of Ukraine. We do not agree that this issue should be used as a coin of exchange and simply as a political race against the electorate as a political pianist. There are examples of Britain that, in a referendum, dealt with the issue of Britain's membership in the European Union in 2016, and the whole country made a decision. There is an example of Croatia, which in 2012 similarly resolved the question of membership in the European Union. There is an example of Georgia, which held a state referendum in 2008, and 77 percent of Georgia's citizens were determined by the NATO Alliance's membership. And such examples are normal in the country, and, for example, the very richest country in Europe, Switzerland defines all such national decisions only in referendums. That's why we insist that the Rebirth Party insists on holding a referendum at the same time as the presidential election on March 31, 2019. And today in the Hall, we understand that it is a very technical issue to now bring these changes to the Constitution and to refer these changes to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court will determine whether constitutional changes are to be made to the Constitution at all. So I think the Hall will support and send it to the Constitutional Court, but most importantly it will be decided when it comes to collecting 300 votes here in the spring and making a final decision. We will insist on holding a referendum in Ukraine at the same time as the election of the President of Ukraine on 31 March 2019, and the citizens of Ukraine will decide on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u38	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to stress further to the speakers that I'm not going to add 30 seconds, adding automatically 6 seconds so that we can go through the agenda. We don't have much time left, I'm already reporting that I'm continuing the session by 12:15. And now I invite you to address the head of the People's Front faction, Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! The People's Front will unanimously vote in favour of consolidating the strategic course of Ukraine in NATO and the EU in the Constitution. Because it was the People's Front a year ago that he took the initiative to make such changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And that is the desire of the Ukrainian people to be full members of the European community. According to a recent sociological survey by the Democratic Initiative Fund and the Razumkov Centre, 70 percent of the Ukrainians in the referendum would vote in favour of Ukraine's accession to NATO. This is a confirmation of the constant trend that was revealed back in 2015. Since the beginning of Russian aggression, Ukrainians have clearly understood that NATO guarantees peace and security to its members. For Ukraine, Euro-Atlantic integration is a non-alternative, irreversible course. And we have to make it really irreversible so that no one would question this course or even dream of stopping Ukraine's movement into Euro-Atlantic space so that every next president or parliament could not turn the country back to the Kremlin yoke. That's why the People's Front will unanimously vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u40	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Bezieruk Oleg Romanovich, head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u41	"What are you carrying to Ukraine in a patched bag?" So I want to ask this Chechnya question by listening to the bravado. What are you bringing? Total corruption in the use of a military budget that leads to poverty in a wide array? The death of soldiers on the range when they use a weapon that breaks into their hands, grenades? Or total corruption in the gas field, the sale of gas - efficient land to Russian oligarchs? When Skrnafta releases hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of gas into the air, and the tariffs are low for the Ukrainian average host. When the government closes schools, does it not finance a student's subsidy in rural schools, and play clubs grow like mushrooms? What are you carrying to Ukraine in a patched bag? The direction in the EU and NATO is us 'for'. Because the EU is prosperity, not poverty, because NATO is security, not Russian aggression. Because the EU and NATO are instruments that have been created against the spread of Eastern despotism on the European continent. They want Ukrainian people there because they emigrate there. Ten million passports are 10 million potential labour migrants. Because corruption eats up the country. And I'm going to say, "What are you carrying to Ukraine in a patched bag? "Thank you, by order of the New Order"? But go healthily, and do not forget to worship the poor." The Ukrainian people know where he's going, what he's going for, and he's going to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u42	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich, head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We will not discuss the changes to the Constitution proposed by the President, we will support them, even though we have observations to them. In particular, the President proposes to remove paragraph 14 from the Transitional Statutes Constitution, which prohibits the establishment of foreign military bases in Ukraine. The president's need for this explains that he said this would allow the Black Sea fleet to be taken down. I would look at this differently: Article 17 of the Constitution in this case prohibits the deployment of any military base in Ukraine, including NATO member countries. On the one hand, President Poroshenko declares our course for NATO membership, on the other hand, creates conditions when no of our partners can be present in Ukraine. So not all the gold that shines, and as President Prashenko says. That's the first one. But I would like to say the key to Ukrainian citizens. The last thing that has happened is, I hope, the last letter in the President's title to Parliament and to the people of Ukraine. What did we see? Faith, language, the army is a sacred thing for every Ukrainian, and for President Prashenko, it's become a different coin before the election, and it's a technological development that makes President Prashenko want to change and maintain power. What have we not seen from the President-in-Office? What would I have offered the country in the position of President of Ukraine? Seeing the future, the country's success formula, the prospect for every Ukrainian. Not general phrases are secondary! Where is the poverty eradication plan, where's the economic recovery plan, where the national interest plan, where the plan to become stronger? President Prashenko doesn't have this plan: he's going to the election with questions of faith, language, and the army. For me and my team, "faith, language and army" is an axiom that doesn't need proof, and they can't be the object of a pre-election fight anymore. For me and my team, the plan is to overcome poverty, increase the well-being of Ukrainians, restore the economy, return the workers to their homes, stop trading land, national interests and raw materials, bring about order in the country, end chaos, restore strong power and human rights. That's what the president should have done. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, the head of the faction, is invited to the word from the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I think today is a truly historic day, because we are taking another step to consolidate our true civilization. We can’t joke or demean this step. I am convinced that our future is in European civilization and our security, of course, with countries that have values and that they have the opportunity to protect themselves in NATO's collective security system. And that is why our team, despite the observation, is going to vote clearly and unanimously in favour of making these changes to the Constitution. But at the same time, I want to remind you that not only do we need declarations. As Prime Minister, I was the first and last Prime Minister to apply to NATO for a plan of action on NATO membership. And then it was the right thing to do, and we have to keep doing the same thing. In addition, we need not only to declare these things, but we need to go there, with all the principles and all the values that we really need as a European country and as a member of the European Union. And above all, these values are worthy of human life. And I can remind you that the Ukrainians never stood up to the Maidans, to the revolution for a piece of bread. We have always stood up for values, for freedom, for the right to live happily ever after. And all our Midianites were about this, not about a piece of bread, about our choice being worthy of the mission that the Creator had given us, and our requirements as a nation that we would like to present to ourselves first. And that's why our path is through overcoming poverty. It is a humiliation that Europe's great country is, according to Bloomberg estimates, in the last and the tenths of the world's poverty and the first, according to estimates of the great expert circle, in the European Union and, in fact, among the European countries. We have to do everything we can to get through this. And our journey to Europe and NATO through overcoming large-scale corruption, through the bottom that is being talked about today in all the offices of the European Union. And that country is going to be, because both the new Constitution and the new economic course, and the new strategy for peace, will give us the dignity with which we are accustomed, as the Ukrainian nation, to live. And that's why we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, you're about to speak with the national MPs. Since time is limited, I set six minutes for performances by national deputies. And I'd like you to record it. It's actually two performances. Jury of Oksana Vasilivna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Indeed, we are living in a special time for Ukraine today. We today, each of us, have to make our own choices. But we also need to do a good job. As a member of the NATO Assembly over the past two years, I would like to report as a delegate, a delegate from Parliament. There are representatives of different factions who work there successfully. I want to report for the work that we've been doing for the last two years: this is the spring session in Georgia, this is the autumn session in Bucharest, which changed 10 years later what was not given to Ukraine. It is in the spring of 2020 that the spring session of the NATO Assembly will take place in Ukraine for the first time in NATO history and in Ukraine's history. This is our parliamentary work that we can report on today. We have a special choice on our hands and, believe me, those who may have had a different opinion here in Parliament today realize that this is important. And I'm talking to all those who haven't figured it out yet, but he realizes it's important to do it. Yes, it is the Ukrainian people who want Euro-Atlantic integration today. Yeah, that's what a lot of sociology polls say. Yes. Because if NATO were a security umbrella over Ukraine, we wouldn't have an annexation of Crimea today in the East. Yes, we understand that NATO is the standard of life, it's health protection, it's education. And that is today because of the trusts that all national parliaments that join the NATO Assembly are voting for that opportunity to Ukraine. Every December at the end of the year, we hear how the report happens, and how we use these funds in a transparent way. Yes, it is important to adopt the Safety Act, yes, it is important today to participate in peacekeeping missions, but in fact the basic peacekeeping mission that we are doing is that mission in eastern Ukraine. Today, Ukrainians are protecting both NATO members and the European Union. For us today, it is important not to miss, for our neighbors in the Baltic have really made this choice. And our great friend Ra's Yuknavievite is doing a very big job today, and he says, "Tell me what you want, make it a law and show that your opinion doesn't waver, as it has been in the last few years in this Parliament." Today, each of us has an important choice. As Andrei Sheptic said, in unity our strength, prosperity and victory, unity of the state, unity of the church and unity of the nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u48	Heroic glory! Martinjak Sergei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u49	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u50	Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we are so eager for NATO that we need to get pregnant so that they won't be able to act on us. And then the decision would be clear. I understand, I'm convinced that all the national MPs are here, that we must join the civilized world. But I have a question, my dear colleagues, and what's the Constitution for Ukraine for? Why should the Supreme Council participate in a political campaign? I understand there will be a denial of that. Then I send those who are still reading to the last publication in one of the last issues of the "The Mirror of the Week" newspaper of the famous scientist, lawyer Vladimir Shapwal. And he clearly described the problem there. Ukraine has documents with the European Union concerning association. Let us try to identify more precisely the European potential and prospects of Ukraine. We have safety laws. Let's write about Ukraine's security situation. Why should the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine engage in political campaigns? Can't we hear people living in completely different situations? This is the primary question. In the same series, the formation of the Central Electoral Commission is a problem. There were voices saying that the C.V.C.C.C., which was formed by Yanukovic, should be released. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues, arithmetic needs to be done. A member of the CLTC has been working for seven years. Count the number of appointments they have already taken, and you will understand who assigned them. These are your appointed colleagues, including the political parties present here. Obviously, we need to change the composition of the CBC, but why didn't we first figure out what the electoral system would be? And if the electoral system stays the same, where are the deputy majors? Let's assign each of us a member of the Central Electoral Commission, because obviously we want to assign our own because we hope to fake the election. These should be completely neutral people who know math and know how to count. They're good at adding. What will happen after the elections are over, and new political parties will appear? What, they will have to give their representatives again? Let us move away from this political fornication and make the country’s civilized decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u52	Thank you. And one minute is given for the performance by Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, today we are considering an extremely important question, which is a civil choice for our nation, for our society. Before I say in essence, no one has the right to privatise the issue of Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO, especially the President. I would like to remind you exactly what Fatherland, as Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko signed an application for VAT for Ukraine in 2008 and in 2014, in March, Fatherhood made a proposal to reinstate the NATO membership rate. Sadly, there was no political will to support it. In 2014, Fatherland initiated a referendum on NATO membership, collected over 3 million signatures, but it was destroyed by the President's Administration. I want to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has made specific proposals that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u54	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u55	which, we hope, will be considered by the President and will be taken into account in the process of adopting the final revision of the Constitution. We should not speculate on the subject of NATO membership and the European Union. We have to do everything we can to make this a reality. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Now, colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes. And I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the national deputies to the Hall. For two minutes now, Oksana Siroid, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Two minutes later, Irina Heratchenko. And then we go to the vote. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Humans, Ukrainians, do not need changes to the Constitution in order to establish their course towards European, Euro-Atlantic integration. They made this choice during the Thirteenth Year during the Dignity Revolution and when they went to fight in defense of their land. But changes to the Constitution are needed by the authorities and the President of Ukraine for the purpose of concealing what he is actually under the influence of Russia. First. These are treaties ratified by the Supreme Council, agreements with Russia that we continue to implement for four years in the war with Russia. The President has never called for the denunciation of those treaties and forced us to implement them with you, and this is military cooperation contracts, the exchange of classified information, these are all valid contracts. Next. Yes, we need a distraction. But we need to start with power. Today, Russian agents are sitting in this room. Today, Moscow agents are sitting in the President's Administration, in law enforcement, they're on the list of the richest people in Ukraine, they own media space, not because Russia is so smart, and that's why Russia in Ukraine has the most favourable mode and feels completely unpunished. Minsk. Minsk is peace on Russia's terms. This is a criminal mistake. And it has to be acknowledged. And finally. Yes, the President never asked for an increase in authority, he just came in and brutally took them in contravention of the Constitution. And that's a long way from Europe. Ukrainians are moving towards the European community in spite of the efforts of power and against the efforts of the President of Ukraine. And they're going to be part of a Western civilization, but they're going to be part of another power, and they're going to be part of another president.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u58	And, colleagues, the closing act. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Two minutes later, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Colleagues, please, two minutes to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u59	In 2008, as a member of the Supreme Council, I joined a delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament, led by a former speaker (also speaking from the rostrum today) to Moscow. And at a meeting with the then Russian Duma Speaker, Mr. Grizlov said, "the accession of Ukraine to NATO will be seen as a betrayal of Russia's national interests." And the entire delegation, where the MPs from the very democratic factions went, kept silent, except for me, of course. Because I, then and today, want to say that the task of Ukrainian politicians is to defend Ukraine's national interests. And when the session hall was decorated with balls here in 2008, unless the pony brought one faction out of the circus, we were very short on a public speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who would publicly say he was NATO. By the way, the submission of the CDC is signed by the President, but with him, indeed, there were signatures of the then prime minister and speaker. We owe Ukraine the inclusion of this section on NATO and the EU in the Constitution, because this will mean the path of our internal reforms, it will mean that we will acknowledge with you that there can be no deviation from the implementation of the Association Agreement. And what's very important to understand is that in 2010, we saw 30 buttonpada's pens alter Ukraine's way to NATO. And there were no non-parliamentary patriots in Parliament, then no public activists and so on. A few. A bunch of factions fought at the same time as the non-prolongation of the Black Sea fleet. At that time, dear ones, we lacked strength and wisdom together, and today we need to correct this mistake. I want to thank all the factions that today, indeed, we are with you, our failures.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u60	Thank you. And, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please enter the hall and take up jobs. I'm asking you to come back from bed. I believe that this is a fundamental decision that will make Ukraine's foreign policy course into the EU and NATO irreversible. We will not allow a rematch or even a chance to question our Euro-Atlantic choice. And we're moving on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the draft Decree No. 9037-P on the inclusion in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amending bill for the Constitution of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's vote yes, let's show 300 votes today. If you'll excuse me, please vote! It's everyone's responsibility, it's settled. All the patriots in favor. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:16:29]] For 321 Decision taken. The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council on the eighth draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was adopted by the colleagues as a whole. Congratulations! I would also like to report, I believe, this historic decision, as I informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has come before the Attorney-General of Ukraine about giving consent to the criminal responsibility of Vilkul, Kolesnikov and Dunayev. I gave an immediate commission to the Rules Committee, and I also offered the relevant national deputies a written explanation within five days to the Rules Committee. The relevant letters have been transmitted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the secretariats of the committees where the deputies work and have been placed in your personal boxes. You can also come to the reception hall to serve as the Chief Agent of the Apparatus so that he can pass it on. Not to be like the last time you said you hadn't been introduced to those materials. They are in your boxes, they are in your secretary’s office, and you can also obtain them in the apparatus of the executive function of the apparatus. So, colleagues, right now under the Rules, I'm calling it a break. And I would like to point out that the following questions will also be changes to the Constitution. And at 12:40, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Break at 12:40.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. I want to remind you that by noon we are discussing changes to the Constitution. I would like to stress that not all of them will be able to be considered, since the agenda is very full. And that's why the decommunization of the areas proposed, if we don't get there today, we're going to consider next week. But by noon we are able to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 41 (6236) and two decrees on the removal of parliamentary immunity. But to do that, you have to work together and work systematically. Now I'm announcing a move to the next bill. Yes, there are still deputies. Please come into the hall, not everyone in the hall yet. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall so that we can begin our consideration of the matter. And while the national MPs are coming in, I want to announce to you a statement that came to the fore from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party of Oleg Lalach. Two factions are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. And I give the floor to the head of the People's Front faction of Maxim Burbak, and then we move on to the law. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, espresso TV journalists published documents that indicate that Murayev received or may still receive millions of dollars from Russian, butimto, oligarha Deripaska. The recalculations were made through foundations in the European Union. You have to point out that Murayev was not getting money from Deripashka, but from Russian intelligence, because in authoritarian Russia, there are no independent oligarchs, all of them under the total control of the FSB. Those businessmen who went against Putin's will are long gone. Similarly, we can argue that these Kremlin millions of dollars went to finance the NewsOne channel that Murray had recently owned. This is another proof that here, in the hall, there are Russian collaborators working for Moscow. They created a network of Kremlin canals in Ukraine that destroy Ukrainian consciousness 24 hours a day. Consider this statement as my appeal to the Ukrainian Security Service. I hope this time the Security Service is effectively investigating these facts, not as it was with our references to the Inter Channel. In part, I emphasize that the People's Front faction unanimously decided to boycott three Kremlin channels: NewsOne, 112, and Inter. And also, I remind you that the People's Front faction has initiated the drafting of a bill for the mandatory registration of public aggressor agents working in the interests of the Kremlin and Russia. Once again, only those who work for the aggressor state. Today, during the President's annual letter, we heard words of support for the People's Front initiative. Only by working together will we hold back the Kremlin's attack on the information front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u63	Thank you. And we go to the draft Act amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the realization of Ukrainian citizens' rights to land, the preservation of property on agricultural land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and the continued development of the village on the basis of farming. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. By noon, Parliament had adopted a decision that was extremely important – changes to the Constitution on strategic course, strategic vision, the strategic direction of Ukraine's accession strategy to NATO and the EU. The changes to the Constitution presented by our team are equally important: ownership of the land: who owns the Ukrainian land, who owns it, who feeds our Ukrainian land. I thank the 178 people's deputies who supported the Radical Party's initiative to change the Constitution of Ukraine, where to say that agriculture is the foundation of Ukraine's agricultural system. Today, in the third global millennium, land is the only thing we have left in the Ukrainian people. Sadly, this land does not feed the Ukrainians today. We are growing huge crop yields, especially last year more than 40 million tons of grains have been produced, but Ukrainian farmers are not getting richer than they are getting poorer. Why? Because the authorities are running a poverty policy to give away the land for free because they know that the earth is the only resource that will feed for thousands and millions of years. And the policy of alienation, the lack of credit, the lack of agricultural technology, fuel-oil materials, seeding materials is all to take away land from people, to take it for free, and then to resell it in a flat place to make billions, billions and billions. Five or six companies in Ukraine, all related to power, so-called agroholdings, whose purpose is one: a bank of land. Under any circumstances, those grandparents take the land, fake contracts, people don't sign contracts voluntarily, raids under the cover of law enforcement, fight for land, because it's the only capital left in Ukraine. For good reason, in each memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, all the prime ministers, all the presidents who have signed IMF memorandums over the past 15 years, are the main commitments they make — the land market. Land market. They're inventing Trojan horses that tell you in the morning that the land market is a panacea that will save the Ukrainian village, that the land market will take over Ukrainian peasants. You're lying! For one reason: Because Ukrainian peasants have no money to buy the land. Because they don't even have the ability to buy chemical or fuel-oil materials, let alone buy the area. Because competitors will come -- transnational corporations that have the ability to borrow below zero percent of their annual loans in their banks. Echelons will bring money here — empty papers that are worthless, printed all day long, 25 hours a day. And these blank papers will pay for the real wealth of the Ukrainian people for the land. And money, you know, most of you, it's water: there is today, and tomorrow there isn't. And giving up the land means taking away the Ukrainian nation of the future, taking away the peasants, pinning them on eternal begging, and the Ukrainian nation for harvesting. Because if we just do the plan that forces power and sell the land, the market for the land, that means we'll never get off the IMF's needle of addiction, that means that we'll never be a successful, rich, competitive nation in this global world, because we, like the once-papuas, in exchange for the slug that Miklucho-Malay gave up, gave up our gold, so today we want to trade our wealth -- the land. The presidential election, which will be next year, is not just the President's election, it's the election of the course to which Ukraine is going, and it's the election to be the host of the Ukrainian land. If present - day puppets, guided from the outside, win or those who are now in power for the money of transnational corporations, the Ukrainian people will get rid of their main wealth — the land. That's why we're proposing today, by voting for changes to the Constitution, by determining that the Ukrainian farmer, the Ukrainian peasant, is the Ukrainian farmer, we're actually killing the "seed keel" in the chest of the transnational Glitai who want to take the land of the Ukrainian peasant. We're going to force any government, any authority, when the Constitution stipulates who is the master of Ukrainian land, which is the master of Ukrainian peasants, no authority will be able to circumvent this rule, because it's going to take 300 votes to cancel it. I believe that there will never be 300 votes in this room to take the land of a peasant. I believe there will be 300 votes in this room to determine our country's future as the strongest country in the world. Just as the Lord gave oil to Saudi Arabia or to the Emirates, so the Lord gave the land to the Ukrainians. But there is oil today, tomorrow -- no, and in the right approach to farming -- restoring livestock, supporting the social sphere in the country, with the state policy of dating the Ukrainian farmer, creating conditions for him. The Ukrainian land will forever feed the Ukrainian people. Because the difficulties we face today are in exchange for which we are. The authorities go around the world for loans, and in a radical change in economic policy, these problems can be overcome by economic difficulties, and I'm absolutely sure of that. We can live without IMF loans, we can come off the addiction needle, we can restore our industry and our economy with the right economic policy and radical change in the economic course offered by the Radical Party. But if we sell the land, we'll always be in beggary, we'll always be a nation of "crosstops" without land, without futures, without prospects and without tomorrow for our nation. That is why I appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament to support the changes we have initiated to the Constitution, article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is clear that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. And to pursue the whole state policy in the interests of farmers, small families – development of cooperation, radical change in monetary policy to provide low interest rates for Ukrainian farmers and farmers, circular capital, subsidies, compensation for part of the cost of agricultural technology, subsidies for the restoration of livestock and a number of other measures that will enable the restoration of the Ukrainian village. I'm not talking about obvious things anymore: stop closing schools, hospitals, FAPs, post office, kindergartens, identify the farmer of the one who lives in the area, who processes the land, who pays taxes on the rural budget, where the land they're processing is located. There can be no farmers with a land capital of 500 or a million hectares of land, as we now have so-called farmers with offices abroad. I want to show you separately, the authorities are talking about supporting farmers. Here are the figures for how the authorities support farmers. This year's budget is a billion dollars to support farmers. Today, 14 million have been used. I did not find any farmers in Ukraine who received support from the state. This year's budget is 300 million to support gardening. 73 million were used. The end of the year. In this year’s budget, 4 billion dollars have been used to support and develop livestock, and 500 million have been used. You won't find people in Ukraine, real real farmers who have received support from the state. All these billions receive oligarchs, transnational corporations, latifundists. A real producer who holds a cow, a real producer who creates jobs, a real farmer, a grandmother, or a grandparent who wants to farm on earth, has no governmental support. We'll make that support! We're going to give the peasants a cow support grant. We will get the adoption in Parliament, the anti - raid law, so that farmers, peasants, do not squander land, do not squander property. We will be able to get the VAT back in order to automatically get the support and not have to distribute bribes and suitcases in order to obtain support from the State. We will adopt laws on the development of cooperation, support for family farming, but the key is ownership on the ground. The changes to the Constitution that we propose will be made by the owner of the Ukrainian country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u65	So now three minutes of questions to the author of the bill. And I'm asking you to do the recording. One, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u66	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you so much for 10 minutes of your talk, where you may have spent 70 percent of your time telling how you fight the earth market. On the other hand, I think a lot of people will agree that a farmer is an landowner. The farmer is an entrepreneur, a Ukrainian citizen who owns the land, processes it and sells its products. How do you propose, by introducing declarative norms into the Constitution of Ukraine and at the same time depriving Ukrainian farmers of land ownership, and effectively protecting anti-constitutional norms as a moratorium on the sale of land? Where there is logic, please explain it to the Ukrainians. And I would ask you to do it without offense, without manipulation, and actually with arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u67	Logic is very simple. Today, in our neighboring Poland, several million Ukrainians work for Polish farmers because in Poland, one and a half million farmers. These farms produce 22 billion euros a year. Ukrainian peasants, with more land to process, sold 40 million tons of grain last year and earned as much as $3 billion — ten times less than Polish agricultural production. Why? Because they're processing the products because they're based on agricultural production, they're farmers, and we have latifunds, for which the main soybeans, sunflowers, raps, and take the grain abroad. And then they bring ready produce to Ukraine, which we pay ten times as much for. That's why we're proposing a state policy for supporting and developing agriculture. Before our reproach in the Constitution, there is still no mention of farming, the master of the earth. And the main thing is to trade, not the land, but the finished product, not the grain, but the bread and the processed product.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u68	Last question, please, National Deputy Ivchenko. Please. Ivchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u69	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, I wanted to thank you for your firm support for the initiatives, including where Fatherland is a co-author. I wanted to ask you. Now, you said the return of about $400 per hectare in Ukraine, in Poland it's already a thousand four hundred, in Austria it's 4,000, and in Germany it's four and a half thousand euros per hectare. And believe me, both Poland and Germany and Austria are countries where family farming is developing. So here's the question, today, 2 million hectares in Ukraine are about processing foreign capitals, and the last thing Peter Poroshenko did is say that this is such a nice investment, when we now have our foreign exchange proceeds, because what we can collect from the hectare is going to enter Saudi Arabia. How do you feel about the fact that such latifunds are sold and bought directly, and international companies are coming to our land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u70	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u71	That's why the international capital invested here in the workplaces, in the restoration of livestock, we're proposing legislation that predicts that the land renter for 1 hectare of leased land is the responsibility of one cow. You rent a thousand acres -- you put an animal complex in the village and a thousand heads of cattle. They do not sow, do not sow, do not sow, do not sow, do not sow, do not sow, and do not earn. I, Vadim, regret that in these 180 signatures of the people's deputies under amendments to the Constitution, that the farmer on Ukrainian land should be a farmer, there are no signatures of the members of the faction "The Fatherland". I'm counting on you to join this initiative. Just as there are no signatures under the law on the moratorium on the sale of land, which were adopted by our initiative in Parliament. I invite our distinguished colleagues from Fatherland to join forces and support the radical party's policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Please invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Knyazevich. We don't have much time, I'll give you a line at the end of the discussion. I always remember you. Please. Dear colleagues, you can go from the rostrum to the site of your faction. Please, Ruslan Knazevich, to the rostrum. Please, please, Mr. Ruslan, so we can take a moment to consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u73	Thank you. I, Madam Chairman, Your Honor Oleg Valeriyovich, would like to apologize immediately for acting alone without members of the committee, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues! Frankly, I want to remind you again. Because during my previous review of the changes to the Constitution, I've already talked about this. That we are now in the process of discussing the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court of amendments marked, initiated, more than a third of the constitutional composition of the Ukrainian people's deputies to the Constitution of Ukraine. So any discussions on the content at this stage are absolutely unnecessary to me, because Parliament does not have such powers now to essentially consider this bill. We're not in the process of reviewing the bill, we're in the process of discussing it technically. And there's a very big difference. However, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee at its meeting considered the proposal initiated by more than a third of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition to submit a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine under registration number 6236. According to part two of article 145 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice can rightly rule out the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine initiated by more than a third of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. It's very important. I insist on this once again, as I have insisted before on making changes to the Constitution in part of the EU and NATO, as I have said last time about farming, I point out that our committee is not a profile, but it is formally a committee on agrarian policy. Nevertheless, we are obliged, as the Committee on Legal Policy, to give clear answers and opinions to Parliament on the constitutional procedure for the consideration of the bill. Thus, we note that according to article 154 of the Basic Law, a bill submitted to the Supreme Council by an appropriate subject, that is, more than a third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill does not require any changes to the Constitution's system-wide rules to Chapter I of the General Principles, to Chapter III of the Elections. The referendum and, accordingly, Chapter XI of the Constitution Amendments to the Constitution will have the effect of approving the changes mentioned in the referendum. The draft amendments to article 41 of the Constitution of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council were not considered. This allows us to deal with these issues properly now. Moreover, during its mandate, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council did not change the Constitution in this part. So now this draft changes to the Constitution can be considered. We have also based our committee on the conclusions of other committees which, under the Rules of Procedure Act, have been entrusted with giving their preliminary conclusions to the Professional Committee on Legal Policy and Justice so that we can reflect them in our conclusion and, together with the conclusion and the bill, send them to the Constitutional Court for analysis if the Supreme Council votes in favour of the decision proposed by the Committee. In response to our request, the Committee on Budget Affairs informed our committee that the bill had no impact on the budget. And in the case of its adoption, according to the law, it can take effect according to legislation. The Committee on European Integration has concluded that the bill does not belong to the priority areas of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation, or is governed by the national legislation of the member countries of the European Union, and therefore does not need an expert opinion from the committee. As a result of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption, corruption has not been identified and the bill has been recognized as consistent with anti-corruption legislation. Finally, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations made a number of comments. We'll add them to the bill, pass them on to the Constitutional Court. Thus, our committee, based on the foregoing, recommends to the Supreme Council, submitted by more than one third of the composition of the Constitutional Supreme Council, the draft Act amending the 41 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine under registration number 6236, to include in the agenda of the 9th session of the Supreme Council the eighth vocation and to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for a conclusion on compliance with the relevant requirements of the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u74	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to sign up for a question with a co-rapporteur. Please, Ostap Ednak, ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u75	Thank you very much. I have a question for the next character. I think that the success of farming in Ukraine is also strong and that territorial communities are developing very well. Mr. Knazević, please tell us that you may know that more than a million Ukrainian citizens in more than a hundred territorial communities are awaiting a decision by the Central Election Commission to hold elections. And the CLTC asked your committee to explain whether there was any reaction to you as committee heads, whether there was a committee meeting, whether there was any explanation, whether there was an explanation for this situation on the decision of the CLTC, because, once again, I think, it is not the declaratory norms in the Constitution, but, in fact, the strong united communities are the guarantee of the success of farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u76	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u77	This does not have a direct bearing. But I can answer, if you please, essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u78	Please respond. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u79	The thing is, this is a bit of an unusual situation. Since the Central Election Commission is asking the committee, which is not, by the way, a profile of the voluntary unification of the territorial communities, I would like to ask, to explain the law on the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendums. Given that, in fact, there is no such law, and the fact is that the committee proposes to interpret the Constitutional Court's decision on this bill, not the bill, but the bill on the whole of Ukraine's referendum, to the powers of the committee. The Committees Act should not interpret the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We've informed the Central Election on this. And, I think they should make their decision. But the problem is really provoked not even by the Central Electoral Commission, but by our colleagues, the people's deputies who called on the Central Electoral Commission with warnings that, because they thought they had reinstated the law of the 91st year, they threatened the members of the commission and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Nevertheless, I ask my colleagues to ask questions on the substance of the bill under discussion. It was a violation of the Rules by me. I admit it. Please ask the following question, and this is the final question, the national deputy of Lensky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u82	Please. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u83	Mr. Reporter, I have a very short question. Please tell us, do you think the changes to the Constitution will be removed or will the debate in society over the so-called land market that is imposed on our country outside, which is being implemented on each occasion, be signed by the prime ministers, the presidents, or will this discussion be withdrawn, in your opinion? And is this really going to be the adoption ring in an attempt to interfere internationally with Ukrainian land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u84	Your answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u85	Mr. Igor, I have great respect for you, but from this rostrum I do not speak out of my own accord. I speak for the committee. At the same time, I have to tell you the following, after that, I hope that, as we support the prescribed bill, we will address the Constitutional Court, and it will give an appropriate conclusion, hopefully, positive to the requirements of the Constitution, we will be able in this room, as is the case under the law, to carry out its consideration in substance. Now we're just considering the procedure. So let's not be deliberately, as it were, those questions that don't belong to my authority, I don't have to ask, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Please return to your workplace. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the factions and groups to discuss the bill. Ivan Melniczuk, you have the floor. Please. Out of the way. Arthur Gerasim from the rostrum. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! I ask the Hall to unite and how one can support this bill also because I think it is overweight. And we have to make a decision today about sending him to the Constitutional Court to make these changes go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Please state the position of the opposition bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u89	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block faction is also the co-author of the bill. My colleagues signed, and I personally signed and supported the legislative initiative. We realize that medium and small businesses should not only be in cities but also in villages, because of course they should be represented by Ukrainian farmers accordingly. But there's a "but." First of all, this subject should not be a subject of populism. Because social populism, I think, is the most important enemy of Ukraine, because we can go into a chasm like this, we can drive the country into a dead end. Second of all, we don't have to waste transnational companies like that. Dear colleagues, how are you even going to invest in Ukraine with such slogans from this rostrum? That our foreign investors are going to be able to hear and see what they're going to be like. A pragmatic point of view should be pursued not only in the agricultural sphere but also in the industry. Since so many countries have repeated economic success in many cases, Singapore is also a Pacific country. The Asian region, this is the People's Republic of China, they've become economically developed countries because of external investment, technology. Because Ukraine is now a technologically backward country. We have to admit it. We're not taking these technologies from anywhere. So I'm very much asked not to speculate on transnational companies, because, to my great belief, this is a key factor for economic development and the country's success. It is also important to note, however, that before talking about protecting farmers' interests, it was necessary to sign the European Ukraine Coalition Agreement, which, once again, was signed by all factions other than the Opposition Block, it was not necessary to exclude special VAT taxes for agricultural producers. You see, it points out that at the request of the International Monetary Fund, you have cancelled the VAT tax imposed by the specialists, which, again, to my deep conviction, is the most effective way of indirect state support to a direct agricultural producer. And now all of a sudden you're saying it's wrong. Thus, it is necessary to acknowledge what has been done wrong and to correct mistakes. And by correcting your mistakes, of course, we will help. Since the tax is taxed by the security, it must be recovered because it is the least corrupt and the most just. As far as this legislative initiative is concerned. I believe that it must be supported and properly referred to the Constitutional Court in accordance with the regulatory procedure for its conclusion in accordance with the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u90	There's no time, I'm sorry, I can't. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Burbak, to present the position of the People's Front. Thank you. My colleagues, I'm afraid I don't have the opportunity to add to the performances. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u91	The People's Front faction will vote in favour of the farm bill. We believe that Ukraine’s agriculture needs to be developed, not just by increasing exports, but by developing more. There is also a need to respond to modern challenges for Ukrainian villages and peasants. The village is a cradle of the Ukrainian nation. But the Soviets have driven the Ukrainian village into slavery, destroyed it for decades, and we still feel the effects of these Soviet crimes. Young people tend to leave their villages at any opportunity, and the land grows weed. A new challenge for the Ukrainian village was the arrival of modern agrarian technologies. The need for labour to produce the same amount of agricultural produce has declined dramatically. So we need thoughtful steps to harmonise the interests of farmers, businesses and the state, targeted support for agriculture itself as a small local agribusiness. It's one of those steps. In addition, the combined local communities have a powerful effect on rural development. This will allow you to inhale new life into the village, create new jobs, local sources of tax revenue, stop the outflow of young people from the village, we have to do everything we can to make the Ukrainian village live and develop. So we vote and support the initiative of our colleagues in the Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, National MP Kulinic is presenting the position of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u93	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. This bill certainly needs to be supported. I personally signed it because it's the farmers' farm, the farmers' future of our country. And I don't think anyone will deny that it is farming that should be the foundation of the agrarian system of our state. But I would consider this problem more complexly, and really, these would be effective steps. We should have thought long ago, but yesterday we had to think about the development of rural areas. What's going on in the country? People travel extensively abroad to cities, and there are virtually no people in rural areas who work in the agricultural sector. Clearly, there are statistics and European countries and world statistics that the agrarian sector will not generate jobs. So we need to think about a comprehensive rural development programme. We have to support this so that there's a job in the village, so that there's a pay. And so this is exactly the kind of government program that we have today that needs to be aimed at supporting agriculture. And this billion, which is in this year, so far there's a small election, we have to do everything we can to make sure that, in fact, farming, the family farms get this support, this compensation. It could be anything: it's organic agriculture, it's low production, it's some kind of processing, but everything you have to do for people to stay in the countryside, work in the countryside, because it's very important, it's also the filling of local budgets, it's actually a rural employment. That's not the case right now. And this, if we don't do anything, it's going to lead to disaster, because it's complex on this program that no one works on. Therefore, once again, all this state support must go to the interest rates on the repayment of loans and compensation to the EU, and everything possible for the family farms and farmers in general to form and work with a view to rural areas. I'd like a few more words about the land market. We all realize that sooner or later it's going to be, and so now we can say whatever we want, but our job is to do everything we can to get to an honest, open market on the ground, everyone has to be in equal conditions: and a small farm, and a small farmer, and a one-man company, and a big agribusiness. That is when people will not be deceived, but they will receive a real reward for their land. It's our job to make it really work in practice. And what we see even today is that the basic bill that passes power on places -- the language for transferring land outside the population -- has been in Parliament for four years. And the basic things -- the same haystacks, the same pastures, even the cemetery -- the village head can't decide because he doesn't have those powers. And we're talking about the rosary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. We don't add up because of the lack of time. Please, from "Fatherland" stand to represent Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u95	Honorable Fellows, Highly Respected Society! Ukraine has generally grown weary of real steps that have never been taken. And perhaps one of the first reforms to succeed is this reform, the agricultural and rural reform. It's not agrarian, it's a peasant agrarian. This is the turn of a huge government car towards the people. "Paternality" clearly stands with this course, we clearly vote in favour, and I call upon the entire hall, my friends, to support. Not only do we support this constitutional initiative, it is followed by a law that we carry from Thursday to Tuesday – the functioning of agricultural farms, family farms. And we're trying to float it quietly. Friends, in the development of this constitutional initiative, is the adoption of this law. Honesty will be evident when we vote in favour of this law. Guys, just these. This is an international experience, a civilizational experience. Two and a half billion hectares of land worldwide process 570 million farms, 500 million of them a family farm, 5 hectares per brother. Latifundia in the world no longer smells, that's all we have. We're not going to blow them. We give people a choice, whether to go to the Poles and support their economic boom or from employment, from slavery to return home and do business as a normal host on their land. So the question is not just about choosing the form of farming, but about setting it up in the countryside. Farming is a very different space of life and a very different view of the world. Second argument. Dear friends, this is the middle class we all dream of, which is the basis for the stability of any society. Friends, you're not going to be a very rich family farmer, but you can be rich, you can be rich, you can be rich. Fourth argument. Friends, the demographic situation is catastrophic: single - parent families, millions of hardworking people have left, families have lost either their father or their mother. What do they do? The natural thing about Ukrainians is agriculture, but it's only on leases. To get people home, to go home, to save families. There used to be 15 million children here from the rostrum, 10 years ago, and now it's half the size, and the trend is worse, worse. One pensioner, one worker -- there's no one in the world like that. It's the jobs here, it's the only social contribution in Ukraine. Friends, such arguments can be called countless more. In small areas, organic production, animal production, vegetables, fruits, and that's where the increase in income from the hectare is coming from, and that's where the processing is going to be needed. We vote yes, but there's a law behind it that needs to be supported, and then we'll show the sincerity of our intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u96	Please state the position of the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u97	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party It's not just another question of order of the day, it's not just a change to the Constitution of a declarative nature, as some people want to submit here. In fact, it's a fundamental, fundamental question about the largest, greatest treasure of the Ukrainian nation -- the Ukrainian land. The leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, has raised this question in vain, because this is the first step on Ukraine's path to dispossessing of external government, because the issue of ownership on earth is a question of the future Ukrainian nation, it's a question of the dead, living and unborn Ukrainians, those who have fought for thousands of years against Ukraine, they're coming here for the Ukrainian land: the Mongols, the Tatars, the Germans, everyone, the Russians. The Moscals have been pursuing Ukrainian land for 300 years. And today, the Ukrainian Parliament, at Oleg Láška's suggestion, will take a step to ensure that Ukrainians become real masters on their own land. There were some colleagues speaking with agroholding lawyers, and I want to say that this is where the most important thing is, and the point of these changes to the Constitution is to stop the invasion of a foreigner, a foreigner who, in the form of an agrohölding, is taking over the land. The politics of today’s government has expelled millions of Ukrainians from their homeland. The policy proposed by Oleg Lazko and the Radical Party is the return of Ukrainians to their homeland, because only farmers, not agroholdings, should be the basis for farming on Ukrainian land, because agroholdings are not Ukrainians on Ukrainian land, but Chinese, Vietnamese, anyone but Ukrainians. And now, by pressing the button, you're going to decide the fate of the greatest treasure of the Ukrainian nation, think about it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u98	Thank you, colleagues. And now six minutes from the National Deputies. I'm sorry, there hasn't been a "self-help" since the factions. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u99	The Free State is free people who use the free resources of this state. The Free State is free people who freely use resources in free territory. A free state is a state that has power that creates conditions and conditions where a person can be free, and a resource in that state belongs to a person. Earth is the resource of a Ukrainian man. And the post-colonial state in which the oligarchs have taken power today abuses the will and abuses its power without giving people access to it. Let's start with a bump. Article 13 of the Constitution: Nadra belongs to the people. Who today owns gas and oil? Oligarchic clans who abuse, destroy nature and destroy humans. The same is true of the earth. Tom and you, as the authorities, have to lay down where everyone will be in equal conditions -- both a small farmer and an entrepreneur. These are the conditions of a real neoligarchic market. And a farmer in this market is supposed to be the foundation, because he's a free man who creates free added value. And we're going to be this free man, protecting a farmer in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u100	Thank you, colleagues. Six minutes for the people's deputies, please hold the record. And I'll ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Six minutes is from the National Deputies, and then we go to the vote. Please, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u101	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, since 1991 the country has been stolen into the foundation. The foundation is the Ukrainian land. Stolen factories, mines, chemical industries, the oil industry. All that could be destroyed was that the oligarchs destroyed the outer so - called partners who wanted to get to our Ukrainian land. When I go to my district to Luhansk, when the roads are ruined, when the dead are standing above the road, our businesses, our hearts are filled with blood. Today, we do not have the right to place Ukrainian land in the oligarchs and those who dictate to Ukraine conditions in order for Ukraine to put more land on the market. The land belongs exclusively to the Ukrainian people. "Our Land" today calls for support of this bill and a complete cross to keep the oligarchs from moving to Ukrainian land. Latifundists don't! To peasants, farmers, small and medium-sized businesses, yes! Today we have the right to pay attention, and we went to that summer with Sergei Rudik, with Victoria Sumar, with Lubinec, and we went across borders with our colleagues, and we looked at where the tent was called, through which a mad hare could jump. Please tell me you haven't returned the peasants for their land yet, they haven't returned compensation for their pies. Today "Our Land" is asking all the national MPs to make a commission and drive around our land, see what's happening in the country. We have the right today to see what is happening in the Bilovodsk district, in the Novopskovsky region, in the Milov region. Today, the fight goes to whoever's doing the horsework, the fight doesn't go to the stables, the fight goes to the ground. We have to leave it in the country, not give it to the Latifundes. Dear colleagues! I urge you to support this bill. "Our country" votes in favour. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you. And a closing statement from the national MPs, Musak Aleksei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! The largest national treasure and Ukraine's most national wealth are the Ukrainians themselves. And so far the situation is that they are leaving Ukraine, including because they have more rights abroad. When you talk about the land, Ukrainians in Ukraine are deprived of their land rights, and abroad they have them this time. The other one. When you talk about making changes to the 41st Constitution, which is about ownership, it's cynicism. Because for 20 years in a row, you've deprived Ukrainians of the right to this property. For the right to own is the only one: to own, to use, and to manage. And it can't be handled, it's two. Third. This compared and compared the situation with Poland, a million and five hundred farmers. Yes, one second. A farmer in Poland has ownership. And he wants to sell, he doesn't want to sell, he wants to buy, he doesn't want to. - That's two. Third. Moratorium and you say it's the first step to getting out of external control. Yes, one second. What's going on now? Well, the Saudis bought Ukrainian land for cheap. Because 20 years in a row of moratoriums, moratoriums, moratoriums, moratoriums. Moratorium is a cheap opportunity to buy Ukrainian land if you don't know it. A moratorium is a cheap opportunity to buy Ukrainian land through a 49-year contract or an emphyteusise agreement that you're not fighting very hard, by the way. Next. If you wanted to make such fundamentals, you should read the Constitution from the beginning, not just the chosen ones. 14th, if you're talking about constitutional principles for land, this is article 14 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it's said to be national wealth. And it was necessary to make changes, not in 41 articles. Next. When we talk about a farmer, and, well, please tell me, how many farms are in Ukraine now? Well, let's count it. It is said that the agricultural system of Ukraine is based on farming, yes, 45,000 35 farms throughout Ukraine. And the landowners are 7 million. So if you want 7 million, the land is only going to decrease to 45, that's not right. It's actually more than oligocracy, it's one farmer per 100 owners. I think we need to expand the competition here. Next, by the farmers. Friends, what you are. Why you're melting, well, youth jargon, actually farming, it's not what you think it is anymore. If you look at the foreign experience and the foreign experience and everything else, the farmer is already a scientist, he's using Big Data, he already understands where he's got, where he's got the land, how much fertilizer he's got, and everything else. Let's move on. If we're talking about bringing people back. Well, Ukrainians worked in Poland, Italy, made money, gained experience. And when they came back to Ukraine, for example, to do the same thing -- gardening, growing gardens, berries, they unfortunately don't have the opportunity to buy this land and stay in Ukraine, and they go abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, in a minute, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I ask everyone out of bed to return to the voting room. Now, one minute, the final word to Oleg Lazko, and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u105	The representative of the oligarhat, who has just appeared before me, is right for millions of landowners to have an extremely small share of farmers. Why? Because the whole state policy was to destroy the peasant and take the land. The changes to the Constitution that we're proposing, here in this Constitution, there's no mention of a farmer or a peasant. Voting now is a restoration of historical justice, it's a tribute to our farmer, to our peasant, to our working man, who has the right to be enshrined in the Constitution -- once. And all government policies in the interests of a working man have to be carried out -- two. And when it is written in the Constitution that agriculture will be the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine, then all of Ukraine will live with dignity and many, because it will be farmers, family farms, and deserving peasants. And they will trade, not in the land, but in the finished product.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u106	So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable members of the People's Republic of Ukraine have put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Decree No. 6236/P on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amendment to article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens to land, the preservation of property on agricultural land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and the continued development of the village on the basis of agricultural holdings and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to vote and I ask for their support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:37:16]] For 267 A decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's day session the eighth draft law was adopted. Congratulations, colleagues. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. I would like to point out that these are two decisions that the Committee has proposed to us on further work on a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (about the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies). The Constitutional Court has considered both rulings, and we must now consider them to move on to the next work to amend the Constitution on the integrity of the national MPs. And I'm betting on the first draft of Decree 7203/P1. And I'm asking you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Hold on, we've got time for lunch. Please be supportive. Please vote. Keep it up, fellows. [[13:38:23]] For 169 And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head, I just want to say to you that I would like to propose a procedure for considering the two orders next. This allows the Rules, since they are essentially related to alternatives, we suggest that the discussion be made at the same time. Because the conclusions are actually identical. And it is appropriate to carry out a variety of votes, as is the case under the Rules, so we can do so before the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. I need to consult with lawyers, is that possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u109	Maybe. It won't make any difference. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u110	So there are two reporters on two orders, and then there's a vote. Is it accepted? Colleagues, I declare that we are going to consider both draft regulations 7203/P1 and 6773/P1. I invite Knjazewicz to the report, then we have one discussion, but two separate votes for each of the rulings. Roger that. Please report for two orders, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you for supporting this procedure. The point is that it is allowed because it is a matter of two decisions that propose the same actual changes in the same article of the Constitution. And since the findings of the Constitutional Court are essentially identical, our proposals for the implementation of the Supreme Council Rules are also proposed to propose identical ones in order for Parliament to determine which of the rulings it will be in favour of. Dear colleagues, I just won't be able to analyze the situation properly for a long time. You will recall that the Supreme Council, by its vote, has decided to include in the agenda and to send to the Constitutional Court the relevant draft laws of Ukraine amending article 80 of the Constitution, which have been introduced by two entities of the legislative initiative, namely, on the one hand, the President of Ukraine and more than a third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After the projects were supported for inclusion in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court, we received two conclusions from the Constitutional Court. These findings have long been given to you because the procedure is that they were immediately referred to the Supreme Council. I'm just going to remind you what these conclusions are all about. The Constitutional Court has examined how this is the case under the law and the Constitution, and the conformity of 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine with the marked changes to the Constitution, as well as the whole body of the bills to conform to other, as it were, the rules of the Constitution. And he came to the conclusion that 157th and 158th, the changes that were made do not conflict. At the same time, he made a number of warnings about making changes to the Constitution in this part. The substance of these changes can be read in an expanded conclusion of the Constitutional Court, and I will stop at them very briefly. The Constitutional Court reached a conclusion and, very importantly, indicated that he would do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u112	One minute, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u113	He makes the fourth point that the institution of parliamentary immunity is not a privilege and a personal right of a deputy. It's a public-law institution, and so it doesn't belong to MPs. And accordingly, it is an element of defending the interests of the electorate through representative democracy in Parliament. The Constitutional Court points out that we do not have absolute parliamentary immunity, we have relative parliamentary integrity, and article 80 is only a special order of accountability for the national deputies of Ukraine. In view of these circumstances, he considers it appropriate to say that it would be worth taking into account the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which has repeatedly been many conclusions, but the latter has made it clear that if national MPs find it impossible to carry out such a constitutional and legal institution, they should pass this right on to another institution. The Venice Commission is offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u114	I said two minutes. One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u115	The Institute proposes the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But this is a proposition. This institution could be any other institution. But in any case, if the MPs think they can't do it, they have to do what they did to the judges when they passed that right on to the High Council of Justice. Therefore, under the Law on the Rules, we cannot, in fact, consider this bill in the stage of prior approval, but we propose to you, as is the case under the law, the order for further work on the bill: in the month-long period for proposals, two weeks to be considered by the committees, made their proposals, two weeks to the committee of profile, and in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's judgement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Please record: two in, two in, two in factions. I'll give all the factions, colleagues. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u117	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction supports the work on this important bill. But we stress that full acceptance is possible in the Ukrainian Parliament only in the complex. That is, along with the Law on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine and the removal of the immunity of judges. After all, we were deceived in Parliament when we received the so - called judicial reform, and no one was betrayed. As soon as the reporter spoke, he was handed over to another organ. But what is necessary in order to bring criminal responsibility to ministers? There's no touching. Today, the leader of our party, Oleg Lasko, has filed an application for the commission of a crime by the minister of health, Mrs. Uljana Suprun. Addressed the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Director of the Sitnik NAB, the Head of the Knaziev Police and the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Vasil Gritzak. What's the point? The series, a series of crimes, ranged from financial to corruption, ending with those who endanger human life and health. And our leader, Oleg Lazko, and our entire faction, demands that we bring her to criminal responsibility, including genocide, because she is engaged in systematic destruction of Ukrainians. This is also an impeccable question. And we appeal to the government immediately, in addition to that, to ask about the appointment of a full - time minister of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u118	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, Arthur Gerasimov, head of the faction, is invited. Please. Turn on the microphone, see if the card is properly inserted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u119	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. Please join us now and support this decision, which is another step toward lifting the parliamentary integrity promised by almost all the factions of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u120	Thank you. From Self-Help, Ruslan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u121	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, listeners! There is no doubt that this decision needs to be supported, because any other way of looking at it puts at risk the constitutionality of possible further changes to the Constitution, which is by definition totally unacceptable. At the same time, I want to draw attention to another aspect. Until we can find 300 votes in the session room to address this issue. And this is no longer the first, not the second, not the fifth, nor the tenth, in this sessional room. That intrusiveness, which is so annoying to people, does not actually come out of the Constitution, it comes out of the laws of the Supreme Council and the status of the people's MP. "The Self-Help Union, together with other national MPs two years ago, registered an appropriate bill that significantly simplifies the procedure for bringing a deputy to criminal responsibility, which takes all these "long-term show" on the regulatory committees that takes this whole circus, because in the end, the Supreme Council is not a judicial body, but is a political body. We can't assess the guilt or absence of a deputy's guilt, let him prove it in court. So you don't have to look for a cat where it's not there to pass a self-help bill, vote 226 votes and stop speculation about changes to the Constitution. And you can do that this week, next week, and you can't wait for a long, complicated procedure to make changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u122	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support both decisions in order to speed up the process of removing parliamentary immunity as an apathy. But I want to address everyone: the MP's in touch now allows the Fifth Column of the Kremlin to feel free here, to smooth out from the rostrum and tell us about the Dignity Revolution, as was done yesterday by the representatives of the criminal bloc, and I believe that as soon as possible the removal of the MP's in touch will finally allow the Ukrainian Security Service and other law enforcement authorities to bring to justice all those responsible for Ukraine's right now in this state, all those who led to the Dignity Revolution to what led the people to, that it went out to the streets to defend their rights and interests. So, dear colleagues, today we would be willing to vote for the removal of the inviolability and over 300 votes, but are we all prepared to do so in this room? The People's Front faction is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes, so I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Chamber as much as possible. It's a question of principle and a sign for society. So I'm very much asking that everyone be present at the workplace when making a decision to undo the inviolability. I now give the floor, 2 minutes, Yuri Lewchenk, the author of one of the decrees. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u125	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I am very sorry that this Supreme Council, despite the promises made by the vast majority of deputies, factions, factions, leaders of the factions that are here, regarding the removal of parliamentary immunity, is doing everything possible to delay this appropriate process. These two decisions that we are currently considering, which have been prepared by the Committee of Legal Policy, unfortunately, do not meet the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, and they only serve to delay the process. These rulings indicate that the Constitutional Court’s decision seems to have some comment on the relevant bills to be removed by the law of the people’s deputies. Instead, if we look at the Constitutional Court's decision, we'll see it in the resolution section of the court. The decision clearly states that both bills meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. When it comes to certain judgements that the Constitutional Court puts in the motivating part, they cannot be considered as warnings in the constitutional sense of the concept, but why is this now, in fact, being done. And in these decrees, both of them, it is stipulated at the end that it is essentially not earlier than 7 days after the committee has reached a suitable conclusion. Why is there no due date in these regulations, no later than a date to be considered and appropriate draft decisions to be considered? So I am now addressing as the author, initiator of one of these bills, the first, by the way, of the 6773 bill, which was then only a few months later illegally copied and submitted by the President, and I am now addressing the author of these decrees by Mr. Knazevitch with a specific proposal. And I'm addressing Mr. Andrey Parubia with a specific proposal, the Head of the Supreme Council. Please add 10 seconds, please. I'm asking you in these regulations at the end, at the last paragraph add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u126	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u127	I'm asking you in these regulations at the end, at the last paragraph, to add not only when the issue can be considered, not before what time, but not later. I propose specifically: not later than one month from the date of the committee's appropriate conclusions, so that there is no further delay in this sessional room on the matter in fact. Please consider this proposal. It's going to really show who's in favor of taking off the touch, and who's just doing the bitaphoria again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u128	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is a closing statement by the committee head. Mr. Ruslan, I'm asking you, because there are two decisions that I can essentially explain whether we can take two, or whether we should just take one and respond to the comments that were made during the discussion. So, two minutes, Ruslan Knyazevich. In two minutes, we're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking everyone to come into the room and prepare for the vote. It's going to be a sign vote. I'm sure society will keep an eye on each of the deputies who vote. Two minutes, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, let me answer some of the suggestions that have just been made. Well, first of all, not sooner than seven days from now, it's not the head of a committee or a committee, it's a requirement of the Rules Act. And please do not manipulate, but let us be clear when considering changes to the Constitution to follow the constitutional procedure. Because I remind you that in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of January 2016, not only is the Constitution of Ukraine part of the constitutional procedure, but the Law on the Rules and the Law on the Constitutional Court. And so, please note that you just told a lie. You said that the conclusion was that the bill did not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. It's not true. The resolution section says that they correspond to the 157th and 158th articles of the Constitution. And the decision of the Constitutional Court has the same legal significance as the resolution part and the motivational part, which is repeatedly reflected in the decisions of the Constitutional Court itself. And in a motivating way, they are bound by the Constitutional Court Act to comply with all the rest of the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. So do not accuse the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Council or the committee, but read the laws clearly. Thank you. As for how we do this, this is a political issue, and I certainly understand that MPs will be defined. I can only express my position, this is not the position of the committee. Since we have to work out these standards, they can only be worked out in the bill passed by the President, for there is a new edition of this article. The MPs simply delete one part of the article, and it will be virtually impossible to change the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Thus, the chairman of the committee provided an explanation, and we are moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Please call everyone who's not here. I would like to remind you that the committee has issued two decrees concerning the two bills that we have voted on in the hall to remove the inviolability. One relates to the Presidential Initiative, the other refers to the MP's initiative. And now the committee is proposing to support one of those regulations for further development. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I am the first to put to the vote the ruling that applies to the Presidential Bill, since it was designated President as urgent, and the second, which has already been passed, from the National Deputies. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. I emphasize: the first is the Presidential Initiative, and I'm going to put them both to a vote. So I'm putting to the vote the draft Ordinance on further work on the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (about the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies) (No. 7203/P1) of the Presidential Initiative. And on the committee's proposal, I propose to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. We're voting on our colleagues. Please support me for being untouchable, and let us show Parliament's political will. [[13:57:21]] For 274 Decision taken. And now I'm putting to the vote the second draft of the Order for further work on the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (part of the lifting of parliamentary immunity) (6773/P1). The committee's proposal is also to vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[13:58:00]] For 213 Not supported. One of the draft regulations is supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] The supported draft Decision on the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (on the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies) (7203). We had two decisions. One of them was supported by a decree. I'm announcing the adoption of the 7203/P1 decree that was supported. I welcome everyone's support for the abolition of parliamentary immunity, and I wish a committee to work successfully on this bill. Dear colleagues, time for work is over. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work.
