ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning! Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for registration. Now I'm going to ask the camera to deliver the chairs. Not all have national MPs in the hall. So, colleagues, please hold the registration and please register. [[10:05:32]] 365 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Let me tell you a little bit about what's going on. For several days we discussed the rights to the Higher Anticorruption Court Act. We've got 55 right-handers left, colleagues. I think it's that period, about an hour, that we're going to be looking at it. Attention! After that, at the request of two factions, I'm going to announce a recess so that the committee can meet, analyze all the adjustments that we've been through. At the same time, I invite you during this break, the heads of factions, to meet me before the vote so that we can exchange thoughts and definitions. It'll be about 11 o'clock. The committee will then hand over its written decision to all national deputies so that the national deputies will be able to get to know each other before the vote. And then we're going directly to the vote. I'm saying this to make sure that the vote is oriented between 11:30 and 12:00. This is the time when all the national deputies should be in the hall. I want to pay attention, today even Victoria Ptachnik, a young mother, and a young child came to the hall to vote for an anticorruption court. And this is an example for everyone. I say in advance when there's a vote, so look who's not around. 11:30-12 a.m. There should be maximum concentration in the room. This will be an important historic decision for the Ukrainian Parliament, to which we have long gone. And I'm asking all factions to maximize their mobility so that we can have a positive and effective vote. So, I remind you, we've stopped at the 1872 and we're continuing our consideration. And I would like to give you the floor to announce the right of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Vlasenka. 1872. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u2	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. I want to point out once again that Ukraine doesn't need any law that is called the Anti-Corruption Court. Ukraine needs a law that will ensure the formation and functioning of a real, independent, professional, high-quality and professional anti-corruption court. Unfortunately, the powdery bill does not allow for the formation of an honest and independent, high - quality anticorruption court. This bill creates a court entirely dependent on President Prashenko, fully manipulated by President Prashenko, completely unprofessional, for a model that is not available in any country of the world that is artificially designed for our situation. So unfortunately, in the way that this law was introduced, in the form that this law is presented for second reading by the committee, unfortunately, it is sufficiently questionable in terms of its support and adoption. That's why we're making a number of amendments that can improve this bill, including the amendment in 1872.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 1872. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:09:26]] For-42 The amendment was rejected by both the committee and the hall. 42 votes "yes", the amendment declines. Next up, 1874/ Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u4	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, in these days there are a lot of questions, questions from citizens, from journalists, and they're not about the Council of International Experts or the veto. So much higher expectations of this law, so much higher expectations of this institution, people ask the key question: "And when does this bill plan actual work? So when does the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court start working?".. Yes, I absolutely agree, there are no models today, in this room the text that we have in our hands is not the bill and it is not yet possible to vote for it. But when an anti-corruption court comes up, people have to answer. So the Self-Help faction is clearly suggesting in its amendment that when the selection begins, and when it ends, there is an answer when the anti-corruption court is in session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u5	Colleagues, please determine the amendment in 1874, and the committee rejected it. [[10:10:58]] For-60 The correction is being rejected. 60 votes only. 1875. Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u6	Thank you, Chairman. This is my amendment to the graph, actually the graph of how it's going to happen from the beginning to the end of the International Council of Experts, the selection, the purpose so that no one can say that the Higher Anti-Corruption Court will be created, there, in 5 or 7 years. In fact, the scenario for today looks like this, given how the President passed the bill, that we can actually vote for this law today, tell people it's a big victory and we've taken a big step forward. And in fact, the process itself and the result itself, the first sentences, we can see in 10, 20, 15 years, and no one will have responsibility under this law. So in my amendment, there's a very clear graph of how the Higher Anti-Corruption Court is going to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u7	Please be determined: Amendment 1875 of Olena Sotnik. The committee turned it down. [[10:12:29]] Z-62 62. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1876. Olena Sotnik. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u8	Thank you, Chairman. One more question. Now in the media, actually, all the attention is focused on just one moment -- these are moments of the veto of international experts. In the talks that are now being held with international partners, this is also a key focus. But no one is asking the question, and which international experts will this commission be made up of? I'm sorry, but international experts -- they could be hundreds of thousands, and they could actually be the sands and the controlling people of the Bank. So I suggest in my amendment that we make it very clear who these experts are from. This is the European Union, this is the Council of Europe, this is the World Bank and in fact those organizations with which there are international agreements in Ukraine for cooperation in anti-corruption activities. Then it can be said that these experts will be independent and uninvolved and will not actually be the right persons of the Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u9	Please comment by Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u10	I just want to say, Mrs Helen, that we have a concept a week ago that all international organisations that are really helping Ukraine under international agreements will have the right to make their proposals, including the EU, because there has been a lot of discussion about this, because we have a ratified Association Agreement, which is an international treaty that allows representatives of the European Union, as well as others that you listed, who have the right to make their proposals. And that's why I think it's settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u11	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify a colleague after amendment 1876. The committee turned her down. [[10:14:36]] For-65 65-yes. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1879, National Deputy Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u12	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyr! I want to say first of all that Ukrainian society needs an independent, honest, professional anti-corruption court, not any building that will have an anti-corruption court on it, and it will be judged in the same way as most Ukrainian courts today. So we need to introduce into this law the mechanisms that will ensure an independent selection of candidates in a court of law. It will ensure that the criteria for selecting judges are objective, not subjective, which will be applied to these people. We need to make sure that the International Council of Experts doesn't have the next "Najel Browns" that Prashenko shoved into the audiences of the NAB, we've seen it all in our own eyes, we've been through it all. That is why the bill in President Prašenk's editorial form, in which the committee proposed for the second reading, is highly questionable in terms of the possibility of creating all these independent conditions. Regrettably, another fair trial may be created that would not meet the expectations of Ukrainian citizens. Our amendments are designed to avoid this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u13	Comment by Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u14	Thank you. This amendment applies to the establishment of a time limit for the public administration to determine the number of judges. Since we have decided to set this amount directly by law, we are removing it altogether, so the committee has not supported it because there is no standard to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u15	I'd like to make up my mind. 1879. The committee rejected the amendment. [[10:16:29]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1886, Tetjana Yuzkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u16	Thank you. My right is to establish the principle of the legality of the judgments handed down by the court, in order that, during or after the hearing, if the court works, the principle of the possibility of an appeal before another higher court may take place. So this is about the introduction of the principles of two courts in the courts of the first instance and the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Appeal. So I ask my colleagues to support my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u17	Please comment by Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Aunt Leonidina. The point is that since your concept is not really supported, this amendment could not be supported. And then we suggest that we leave the line that you see in the right-hand column, according to which court will start to work at the same time as the relevant courts of the court, not the two judges, the two courts, as the author suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u19	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself after the amendment of 1886 by your distinguished colleague, the committee dismissed her. [[10:18:09]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1893, it's from the self-help deputies. Colleagues, from Self-Help, please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u20	Thank you. The amendment refers to the moment when, at what number, the minimum number of judges in the competition will be the subject of an anticorruption court. The committee has its formula, it has not fully understood me, but I will ask the committee head to explain. But it is crucial for us that, in view of the great social question about the beginning of this court, if there is a minimally objective number of judges who will be able to do so, we believe that the minimum number of judges will have to begin to work. Because people are very tall, I'd say, even too high, the expectations and expectations about the work of this anti-corruption court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u21	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u22	Thank you so much for asking. We really support your position, and that's why we're proposing to change the valid norm that SAA should further determine the number of judges. We directly propose -- this is agreed, including with the Venice Commission, the norm -- to write down directly the minimum number of judges for which the court will start its work. That is, if such a number is to be assigned, they must immediately appoint the congregations of judges, and from that point on, it will take place. There will be a day when this court will begin. As for the number. It is suggested that this amount, in order for them to start their work, should be at least 35, at least. And if they feel that they can do more, they should watch the contests. And so among those 35, we think that at least 10 should be in the Appeals Chamber. For what purpose? In order to form 8 colleges out of 3 people in the first instance, plus a head that will govern accordingly. The same goes for three colleges of appeal plus the head of the court. I think that's enough, in the opinion of the Venice Commission, because that's the kind of court that works in this kind of quantity. If so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u23	Finish up, give me 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u24	And if that's going to have to increase this amount in the future, then we're going to see this possibility in the law. True, this amendment is not now confirmed, but I very much hope that the committee will be asked to return today, because this is an important issue for the future. Open up such an opportunity to understand in practice whether these judges are enough or not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u25	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, the Self - Help faction has satisfied the explanation of the committee’s head. 1896, the next amendment, the People's Deputy Zalitschuk and the Dove. Please, the microphone. Don't insist. Let's move on. 1897, Yuzkov People's Deputy. 1897. You insist, Mrs. Tetjano, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u26	No, not on this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, 1898. Please, National MP Vlasenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, apart from all the mechanisms that absolutely do not guarantee independence, the professionalism of the possible created Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, has also been suggested in this bill to us by a model that does not exist in any country of the world that is unique in one court in fact two courts. In doing so, the chairman of the committee repeatedly spoke of the fact that these two courts would be divided organizationally, financially, even in different premises, and would be sent to justice. But something with stubbornness that can be applied in a different direction, they tell us that this is the only court. So the "Fatherland" faction, me and Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, as the authors of the amendments, spoke repeatedly about the need for an appeal in terms of logic and common sense, in terms of Ukrainian legal tradition. The Court of Appeal shall separate and establish district courts where the NABU territorial units are located, the courts of the first instance and make the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court as an appeal court. This amendment is also about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u29	I'd like to make a statement. Amendment 1898. The committee turned her down. [[10:22:44]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment of the national MP is the same as the 1904 Vlasenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrno. The mechanism for launching an anti-corruption court is also too important. "Transitional positions" about the possible functioning of the High Anti-Corruption Court at a time when it is not fully created is very important. And the mechanisms, the mechanisms of its operation should be clearly marked. They should not be manipulative, they should have a clear deadline for the establishment of this court, the implementation and procedures for the appointment of investigating judges and the procedure for the formation of appropriate chambers, i.e. those are elements of the independence of the judges of the anti-corruption court. Unfortunately, these mechanisms in Transitional Positions are confused with the sole purpose of manipulating them so that they can be influenced so that this court does not become really anti-corruption but remains, unfortunately, the same court as our entire court system. That's why. And in fact, the whole bill is aimed at eroding the idea of an honest, independent professional anti-corruption court. Thank you, and please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u31	Thank you. This, the honourable colleagues, was the amendment of 1898. No, I'm sorry, this is an amendment to 1904 by your esteemed colleague Vlasenko. And there's a committee comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for asking for your offer. We've already discussed with you, but I don't think that we're going to offer the model that we're going to offer as one that will be ineffective. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u34	I hope it will be effective, but once again I will explain the logic of the concept that was proposed, including by the Venice Commission, and supported by the committee. It is that the establishment of the Appeals Chamber is appropriate in one court as a court of first instance to deal with cases at the first instance precisely for that purpose, so that this Chamber can only deal with cases that this court has considered as a court of first instance. So, based on such considerations as not to overburden the court, because if we now allow the possibility of creating another court, then all of the investigative cases that are, for example, in other courts can be overturned. It paralyzes the work of this court, it actually blocks it, and the idea is going to be destroyed. Thus, the Venice Commission correctly indicates that this should be the only court with an appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u35	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I ask you to determine by vote on the amendment of 1904 of the People's Deputies Vlasenko and Timoshenko. The committee turned her down, turned her down. [[10:25:52]] For-33 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1905, Yuzkov's national deputy. Please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u36	I can't fully agree with the reporter, because in order not to burden the appeal facility of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine, you just have to point it out in law or in the Final Positions. My orders under 1905 and 1907, in addition to the proper system of two courts in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, provide for the possibility of separate judicial self-government for both the first instance and the appeal body, which is a safeguard against the possible abuses of the judges of this court. So I'm now referring to 1905, 1917. I'm going to insist on voting for both, but I won't take the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u37	Thank you for your clarification. And I would like to point out, colleagues, that Mrs. Yuzkova has just given up her position on two amendments: 1905, 1917. There is a comment by the honourable chairman of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u38	I want to say, Tetjana Leonidivna, that we did this when I was speaking last time, as technical legal remedies, which included the legal authorities, I said by the transcript. I can remind you again what this is about. This is also a definition of the terms that clearly state that the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption is solely regarding the judicial decisions adopted by the Court of First Instance of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So we gave actually a new version of section "x", paragraph "x" more precisely, where we removed 2nd and 6 points, and in 3rd we added the words "started and not completed". And a new paragraph was added, and I reiterate that, "The Courts of Appeal, apart from the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Anti-Corruption (intentionally removed), continue to take up appeals against the courts of the first instance, and do not acquire legal power in criminal proceedings against the crimes referred to in the Code to the jurisdiction of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, which were brought before the courts of the first instance until the day of the commencement of the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." Thus, such fuses are installed. I hope that we will be confirmed on the committee today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u39	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u40	Let's once again point out that with these technical legal remedies, as you rightly observed, the law was eventually passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, I will now make the amendments that Mrs. Yuzkova has commented on in turn. I ask you to vote on amendment 1905. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[10:29:06]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. And then there's 1917. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. The committee turned her down. Mrs. Yuzkova is asking for your support. 1917, Mrs. Yuzkova presented two amendments, and we vote in turn. [[10:29:25]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1906, National Deputy Krulko. Are you insisting? Thank you. The next is 1907, Vlasenko and Timoshenko. Mr. Vlasenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I can and must point out on a first-time basis that the reading that has been raised around this bill is totally not in keeping with its contents. This law, at least in which it was introduced, in the form in which it is prepared for second reading, does not ensure the formation of an honest, independent, professional, anti-corruption court. It provides the possibility of creating a judicial institution that will be created by the people of Dustyka, totally dependent on Dusty and will probably follow the instructions of Dusty. Thus, without amendment, this law seems to be sufficiently questionable today from a meaningful point of view. And he's definitely not going to meet the expectations he's expected of, I'm sorry for this tautology. Thus, only by amending the bill can it be supported in general, giving at least a minimum opportunity to create mechanisms of independence and professionalism for this court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. So this was the 1907 amendment. I'd like to make a statement. The committee turned her down. [[10:31:07]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. I see the raised hand of Mrs. Yuskov's esteemed colleague. I'm asking her to turn on the microphone. Mrs. Yuzkova, we are now at Amendment 1907, we voted it. Do you have any of these behind you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u44	Yeah. I want to place on confirmation the amendments to the numbers: 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913, 1914 and 1915. The point is that Parliament did not support the committee's view of the impossibility of using a polygraph during the monitoring of the work of the already elected judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. This paragraph establishes that the Supreme Council of Justice should approve the procedure for carrying out such a study. Since Parliament considers it necessary to use a polygraph to monitor the work of judges, then I ask you to go back and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u45	Colleagues, therefore, spoke only of the requirement of a national MP of the South to confirm a number of amendments. On Mrs. Yuskovi's request, I will now place these amendments in turn for confirmation. I would like to point out that the committee supported them. Mrs. Yuzkova demands that the hall be identified immediately. So 1908 is the amendment. The committee supported it. Please make up your mind. The committee's asking for support. Please make up your mind. [[10:33:11]] For-65 65th. The correction is being rejected. 1909. The committee supported and asked for support. Please make up your mind. [[10:33:30.]] For-73 73rd. The correction is being rejected. 1910. The committee supported and asked for support. I'm very much asking you to identify yourself. [[10:33:52]] For-74. 74th. The correction is being rejected. 1911. The committee has supported and is very much asking for support. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[10:34:15]] For-94 94-yes. The correction is being rejected. 1912. The committee supported and asked for support. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[10:34:35]] Z-91 91-yes. This amendment is rejected. 1913. The committee supported and asked for support. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[10:34:55]] For-93 93-yes. Regrettably, the correction is being rejected. 1914. Colleagues, I remind you that we are now making corrections for confirmation. The committee supported it in 1914 and asked for support. The committee's asking for a vote. I'm asking you to identify yourself, colleagues. The committee supported the amendment. [[10:35:22]] For 1052 102 votes in favour, the amendment is rejected. And 1915. The committee supported her and asked her to identify and support herself. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[10:35:46]] For-103 103-yes. The correction is being rejected. The next is 1918 National Deputies Timoshenko, Vlasenko. Sergei Vlasenko's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I turn to this session room to support the bill only if certain mechanisms are put in place to ensure independence, the professionalism of this anti-corruption court. And the mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that this court is safe from the influence of Prashenko, from the influence that Prashenko has already placed on the entire judicial system through the same mechanisms that are appropriate to him on the right of ownership of the WCC (High Qualifying Commission of Judges), due to his right of ownership of the Supreme Council of Justice. If these bodies are going to elect judges of the anti-corruption court, that means that they select the people of personal loyalty to the Dustyunkovi, just as they did during the Supreme Court's competition, to which they have chosen the people loyal to Peter Alexiyovich, and only a small number of professional, honest judges and honest people have been there, who can administer justice irrespective of the political influence of President Prashenko. We have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u47	Please decide on the 1918 amendment. The committee turned her down. [[10:37:22]] For-56 56. The correction is being rejected. The next is 1919, the author's team. I'd like to speak to a member of the people's village, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u48	Yuri Derevyanko Dear colleagues, we are practically finishing the consideration of these amendments on a very important issue for the country of the Anti-Corruption Court Act. And we want this court to be really uncorruptionable and without corruption. But that depends on how many votes will be taken into account when the veto of the International Council of Experts is overtaken. We now have a big debate here in this room about whether there are enough votes for an international council of six international experts to think it would be a safeguard for unkind people to get into the office of an anti-corruption court. I think it should be four-- most of six or four-- most of seven. Otherwise, we're going to have the same painting that we got in the Supreme Court. So I think it's a key question for today that we're going to be looking at, and it's important that the different kleptocrates don't get us divorced, all together, and the Ukrainian people, including. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u49	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Your amendment has something else to do with it. We rejected it for reasons that the committee did not respond, including some of the Constitution of Ukraine. But I want to take advantage of and propose a technical legal order that was proposed by the Chief Legal Authority. In article 247 in the first, second, and third chapters. No, it's not. Yes, sorry, in the first and second parts, twice delete the word "appropriate" in front of the "appellate court," as we deleted throughout the text, is a purely technical thing to make sure there are no different interpretations. Please consider this a technical legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u51	At the same time, Yuri Derevyanko and the copyright team are not involved in this vote, colleagues. That's why I don't vote. And now we're going to have the last almost amendment, our esteemed colleague Victoria the Bird. First of all, we are all congratulating Mrs. Victoria on the birth of her daughter. Secondly, we welcome you back to work so quickly, and this is a great example of the combination of motherhood and work. 1924. Mrs. Victoria, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u52	Thank you very much. I hope today's vote will be a successful one. And my amendment actually excludes the paragraph that is proposed to the President of Ukraine to introduce an additional draft on the establishment of an anti-corruption court. I want to point out that if this amendment is voted on, it will be necessary to go back to my amendments 10 and 26, which indicate that it is by this law that an anti-corruption court is formed. I wouldn't want to burden the President with the additional necessity of introducing some additional bills after our, I hope, today's successful vote. And I point out that the Constitution of Ukraine provides that all courts are constituted by the law that the President is to submit after consultation with the Supreme Council of Justice. So I think we can set up an anti-corruption court by this very law and I'm asking you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Please comment to the honourable chairman of the committee. Colleagues, please return to the session room. In fact, this is the last amendment to the bill that we are discussing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u54	Thank you, Miss Victoria! I welcome you, too, on occasion, to such a momentous occasion. I want to tell you that, in principle, we've been having this discussion here for almost an entire plenary session last week. And us then. In my opinion, the Committees believe that the solution to the situation was proposed by the Venice Commission, which believes that a special order, defined by the Constitution on the formation of courts, which does indeed foresee not only the President's decision and the introduction of the relevant bill, but also the approval of the Supreme Council of Justice, must be preserved in order not to make this law legitimate. And we agreed to that position. They insisted, the committee supported it, and the session hall also decided to endorse such a concept. So I'd like to ask you now, if you can, not to move away from this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u55	Thank you. So you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 1924. The committee has rejected her, who supports her, and I ask you to vote, please. [[10:42:12]] For-56 The decision is not made. So 1925. 1926. 1927. Dear colleagues, we've finished our discussion of the law, we're done. 1927. Popov. Please, the last, 1927 Popov finale. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, once the law is in force, the International Council of Experts will be formed, competitive selection will begin, but the dark forces of corruption can block, delay the establishment of an anti-corruption court at the organizational level. That is why I propose in the Final Positions to define an authorized state authority, namely the Ukrainian State Court Administration, which should be in parallel with competitive procedures for the selection of judges to organize all the necessary logistical points to start the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, namely: the premises, staff, budgeting, channels of communication and so on. And to entrust the State Administration, six months from the date of effective law, with the provision of a material and technical base for the High Anti-Corruption Court. This is usually included in the government decree, in the plan of action to implement the law. But in order to make sure that the court works quickly, it suggests that we include this in the End Position of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u57	You insist on voting. So I'm betting on the 1927 final vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:43:59]] For-56 Thank you. So, colleague, the readjustment didn't go away. The decision was not made. We concluded a difficult but fruitful discussion on all the issues. I want to report that Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman has arrived at the Supreme Council Hall. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. [[Applause]] And I would also like to inform you that the drafter of the bill, President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, has arrived at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite Peter Alexiovich to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. Welcome: Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. [[Applause]] I would like to report that we had several months of negotiations with the Venice Commission on all laws relating to judicial reform. You also know that in fact all positions have been agreed upon, except for one key one, which relates to the mandates of the Public Council of International Experts. I want to let you know that the negotiations have been successfully completed, that we have actually been able to find a formula that is fully in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. And, dear friends, I invite you to take the floor for this important, dutiful law of the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u58	Congratulations, my friends! Congratulations, my friends! Very pleased to hear from you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Reverend Prime Minister, Honourable People's Deputies! Sergey, welcome! Today is a very important day. Over the course of four years, we have done a huge job: done by the President, made governments, done every national MP in this room. But today, voting for an anti-corruption court is a litmus paper for every national MP, because today we are completing the creation of an effective, transparent, anti-corruption infrastructure. So much has been done. This room has been voted and supported, including my bills, which have created an independent and transparent anti-corruption office; provided legislative support to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; created a National Anti-Corruption Agency; and created the first legislative enforcement of electronic declarations that has forced every official to report and criminalized the violation of the image of life to the proceeds. This is what you and I promised the voters, what we did with you. I have no doubt that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine will demonstrate the responsibility and ability to adopt an anti-corruption court bill. Once again, I want to thank you for supporting my draft in the first reading, more than 280 people's deputies voted for it. This also provides a basis for optimism. I would like to thank the committee members who have carried out very active work, including with international organizations, with the Venice Commission, and have come up with the option that today gives reason to believe that the bill will be adopted. I'd like to make a point, we're not taking it for the International Monetary Fund, as some might think. We accept it and not for the Venice Commission, not for the Council of Europe, not for the European Union or for the United States, our motivation with you -- we accept it for Ukraine. To ensure an effective, transparent fight against corruption, create an independent, independent anti-corruption court, which is part of the entire reformed judicial system, which was also created solely in your position when we adopted appropriate changes to judicial reform. A major discussion took place around the panel of international experts, a discussion that raised several issues. The question was whether to create or not, it was gone. And how does the panel of international experts, by ensuring its trust and transparency function, on professionalism and competence, at the same time will not violate Ukraine's sovereignty and fully comply with the Constitution. I would like to point out that the version proposed by the committee is fully in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and, at the same time, is fully in line with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I'm not going to make a big programming speech right now. And what I'm saying today is June 7th, and I think it's today that we're going to have a huge opportunity to adopt this bill. The huge opportunities for increasing Ukraine's credit rating, the huge potential for increasing confidence in Ukraine by foreign investors, ensuring economic growth and a key position for people's trust. I address everyone in this room, no matter what faction it represents, what political power it represents. The people of Ukraine are firmly on the sidelines of the need to create an anticorruption court. I urge you today to have the Supreme Council find in it the strengths, opportunities it has demonstrated not once in the last four years, and to vote on the Anti-Corruption Court Act. I am confident that the Supreme Council will now make a worthy examination of this important matter. Have a good one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. President! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we're almost done with the law review. I would like to remind you that these amendments, which applied to the powers of the Public Council of International Experts, were not defined by the Committee, were proposed to be considered in the Hall. As a result of the negotiations today, we have found a formula that is fully, I stress, in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Right now, it is necessary for the committee to be able to hold its meetings so that we can make a public, transparent, agreed decision. Because I want to emphasize, all the decisions that have to do with the fight against corruption have been made here, in this room, because there is a center of decision-making in the state. And I'm sure this time we'll go through this test too. And we're going to make decisions here together, and I'm sure this decision will be positive. So, colleagues, we need time to meet the committee. Two factions of Parliament, Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, filed for recess. So we have half an hour, in these half hours, I'm asking all members of the Justice Committee to meet at the conference room. Conference room! Downstairs in the conference room. And I ask the heads of factions to attend a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third floor. Heads of factions, I ask you to come to the third floor for a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council. And, colleagues, at 11:30, I'm waiting for everyone in the room, and we're going to go to the vote. Thank you all. I'm calling it a 30-minute break, until 11:30. Thank you. I'm asking Irina Heratchenko to make a message.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, allow me to make a message in the meantime. On June 14, the World Blood Donor Day is celebrated. And now, following the initiative of the Health Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the same colleagues who are allowed to do so may join the blood supply. Our BP colleague, John Sporish, was the first one today. Anyone who wants to join us, please. This is very important today. And you know, we've got a medical facility here, and now there's the paramedics, and there's the equipment. And all those desiring can now give blood to help the children who need it and to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u61	Thank you. At 11:30 a.m., I urge everyone to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, pay attention! The committee meeting is still going on, but the committee head told me it would take another five to ten minutes literally. Now, according to the Rules, we have a break, and that's why I have to announce a break from 12 to 12:30. But, colleagues, at 12:30, I ask everyone to be in the workplace. At 12:30, I ask everyone to be. We will move immediately to a decision, to a vote. I want to remind you of what I said this morning. We're going to need maximum mobilization when we adopt the law. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 12:30, we'll move immediately to making a decision. Thank you. Half an hour, yes, 30 minutes, as prescribed by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the time laid down by the Intermission Rules is over. That's why I'm asking everyone. That's why I'm asking everyone. Colleagues, it was an hour and a half. Now I'm asking: communication, communication. Heads of factions, one minute to exchange thoughts before the vote. Please, I'll give each faction a minute for the performance. Peter Dustock's Block, one minute. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u64	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The committee has just made a final decision that allows us in this room to vote in favour of the law, I think, one of the key laws, the initiative of the President of Ukraine, the anti-corruption court. This is going to be the lacmus paper of this room, because we're going to see clearly who's fighting corruption on television or on newspapers and who's actually making decisions in the room that will allow us to solve this problem much more effectively. Therefore, your honorary colleagues, the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko, will support the bill of authorship of the President. We encourage all our colleagues to gather in this room and unanimously support the initiative supported by more than 80 percent of our population. Thank you for your attention. Please support this law once again for everyone in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u65	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the committee's decision to return to is now being printed. It will be distributed in the hall, and you will be able to get to know it when it is discussed. It's from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction has consistently supported the establishment of the High Anti-Corruption Court, because I would like to remind everyone that four years ago, a series of reforms were initiated by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk's government to create anti-corruption bodies. We created NAMK, NAMU with you, we created electronic declarations with you, and every MP and official now fills them in. You and I have entered into the ProZorro system, which has allowed money to be saved in the purchase of the budget. So once again, I appeal to all of you today to take a decisive step in the creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to serve the people of Ukraine and our interests. In order for the corrupt to finally sit behind bars, not to be debated here in the hall, as if they were not doing the right thing. So I ask everyone to assemble, vote, and create a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u67	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, voted in favour of a judicial reform more than a year ago in this Hall of 335 deputies. The people expected that the courts would be changed, but instead we are offered today, and this is a special cynicism, and Parliament must make a decision that directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine of article 125, because this article prohibits the creation of separate special courts. Our faction insists on a judicial reform – what the entire people of Ukraine are waiting for, that all the courts be changed, be fair, fair, and this court, its creation, we do not support and vote against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u69	Thank you. From the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko will speak. Colleagues, let's define. I'll give you the size. Radical Party, ready to go? I'm going to give by size, by the size of the factions. Please, Self-Help. Oleg Beresuk. Victor, are you ready? Please, Bondar of Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u70	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, we do not agree with the economic policy that has been pursued by government and government in recent years. The result of this policy is essentially the destruction of industry, energy, transport, and so on. Where did this policy come from? It came under the pressure of our external creditors and for credit, as I have said many times before, the government and the authorities are willing to do whatever it takes. But the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act is an exception when, in fact, external pressure is doing a good job for Ukraine. The anticorruption court in Ukraine is feared by most deputies, the majority of the overlords who sit on corrupt streams and continue to sit. So my personal position and the position of most of the members of our faction: we will vote and uphold the law in order to put an end to this corruption in Ukraine. And I call on MPs who are not afraid to investigate corruption to vote in favour of this bill. And life will show who, where, and how he lived in Ukraine and which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u71	Finish up, 15 seconds, please. Please welcome the leader of the Radical Party Oleg Lazko. He's not ready yet. Please welcome Oleg Berezuk. Oleg Berezuk is invited to the floor. Not ready yet. Please welcome Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u72	Colleagues, factions, attention! Attention! I'm giving up the size of factions, so I'm asking now to express my thoughts from the presidency. Now "self-help," Oleg Berezuk. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Oleg Beresuk. Mr. Oleg. So I'd like to invite you to the speech by Oleg Beresuk. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u73	Mr. Speaker, I don't understand why such an important law that we've fought in this room for more than two years should be adopted in such a disgraceful way. To the extent that we should disrespect ourselves and the parliament in order to force us to read from the voice and make decisions in a matter of minutes. This is a disgrace to you as the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Self-help will support the Anti-Corruption Court Bill, which we developed more than two years ago. Self-help sees one risk in today's bill that the top-corruptioners will necessarily try to use. The nomination of experts to the Council of International Experts will not be made by governments of states that help fight corruption, it was our proposal, it was just international organizations. They're going to try to bring the Brown Nigels back here again and publish them as international experts who are supposed to help us with anti-corruption judges. The law is good with this one big risk, we'll all have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u74	Colleagues, I'll give you my word. I want to remind you that we've been looking at the bill for three days, for two weeks, for two hours, for a committee meeting where all the factions and committee members were to be present. How much more could there be to follow procedure than what we have received? And I'm asking everyone not to pull the plug on the decision on an anti-corruption court right now. And I invite you to the word Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, our first-day and first-minute team has supported the anti-corruption court, its creation, but only on one condition if the anti-corruption court is independent of the President of Ukraine and his corrupt environment. If this court is independent, there's meaning and meaning, and if it's a puppet in the hands of the President of the Council, like the Supreme Court, then why is this whole circus worth it? I can now firmly say that the bill they agreed on leaves the anti-corruption court with the private property of the President of Ukraine, and so forget the fight against corruption. But at the time, I think we need to get this bill to the Venice Commission right away in a way that needs to be reconciled, and then after lunch, we need to make a decision after we're done. I think it's the only way, because what's there now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u77	What is being done there has nothing to do with an independent anti-corruption court. And so whoever wants to leave corruption can vote boldly for this, and whoever's fighting corruption, know that it's Facebook.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u78	From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u79	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, look at the full room. I didn't see so many deputies when they took an oath. Stop 10 of the 10 Ukrainians and ask them if they believe that you are here to make decisions that will overcome corruption? 11 of the 10 you ask will say they don't believe. Society doesn't believe you or the hoax you're making today. The real fight against corruption is over poverty. This is the return of the Ukrainians to their homes. This is an increase in Ukrainian income. It's a recovery of the economy. When a decision is taken either by President Prashenko or by foreign ambassadors, it is sad that a country where Parliament is not aware of the importance of sovereignty, independence, respect for Ukrainian statehood. The Radical Party's team against external administration, against the Ukrainians' task force. Ukrainians must rule their country and their destiny!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u80	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group, Eugene Ribczynski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u81	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, city of Kiev, "Will of the People". "The will of the people" consists solely of the majority candidates who represent the will of their constituents, as well as the will of thousands of employees, because the group is filled exclusively by businessmen with thousands of, many thousands of teams. All three and a half years, we promise our voters that something will finally move on the issue of corruption. In fact, we accepted the D.B.I. issue, we accepted the N.A.U.A. issue. These institutions are working, they're bringing cases to trial, and in court, cases are falling apart, that's what we know. We really need this anti-corruption court. Not in any way, of course, my predecessors emphasized it, but it's absolutely necessary. If we fail today, we will feel that the fight against corruption has been defeated. "The will of the people" for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u82	Representative of the President, one minute, Irina Heratchenko. Oh, Irina Lucenko. Please, now Irina Lucenko. And please prepare the committee head for the report on the committee's decision, Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! We are today making a decision that will be crucial to the national security of our nation and to the preservation of this state, which will allow for the consolidation of confidence in power, in Parliament, in the interior of society, because we are finalizing the creation of a tool to combat corruption. We have opened electronic declarations, and at the initiative of the President, this bill has been introduced to Parliament, and we have supported it. Society has seen the wealth of government officials, including ours. We've created the right organs, the power organs to fight corruption, this is SAP and NABU. And now, supporting this anti-corruption court bill, we will complete the process of creating bodies that will fight corruption in Ukraine. We make an unprecedented decision -- we introduce a standard by involving international experts in those experts who will elect judges to the anti-corruption court. In this way we show our international.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u84	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u85	We're showing our international partners that we're ready to fight corruption, we're willing to show in the ranks of government officials anywhere this corruption, fight it, condemn it, and defend the state economically and in the fight against corruption. So I would very much ask you, national deputies, those who participated in the committee meeting, those who participated in the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u86	Thank you. So the group factions are finished. And, colleagues, I would like to invite the head of the Committee of Ruslan Knazevitch. And I'm asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hand out the committee's decisions so that the deputies can get to know each other and know what they're voting for. Please. There's already a lot of distribution in the hall, yes. Everyone, please come to know what we're voting for. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. Allow me to read the text of the decision accordingly. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice further considered, at its meeting on 7 June 18, Protocol 71: draft law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Registration number 7440 (hereinafter: bill) and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: First. Reject 682, 683, 685-739 and make the fifth part of Article 8 as follows: "Pray five. At the initiative of at least three members of the Public Council of International Experts on the conformity of any candidate to serve as a judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the criteria set out in part four of this article are discussed at a special joint meeting of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine and the Civil Council of International Experts. The decision on the compatibility of such a candidate is approved by the majority of the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges and members of the Public Council of International Experts, provided that at least half of the members of the Public Council of International Experts voted in favour of him. In the event that such a decision is not taken, the candidate is considered to have stopped participating in the competition. Such a special session shall be held no later than 30 days from the date on which the results of the examination are announced, which shall be made up of candidates for the appointment of a candidate for a judge to meet the criteria of professional competence. At the request of no less than three members of the Public Council of International Experts before a special joint meeting of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine and the Public Council of International Experts, a previous interview with candidates for the post of Judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine may be held in which at least six members of the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine shall participate." In view of such changes, technical and legal developments should be carried out in the text of the law, such as: (a) Exclusion of article 9, paragraph 3, of the law; (b) Article 9, part 9, paragraph 4, should read as follows: “paragraph 4: Participates in a special joint meeting in the cases provided for by this law”; (c) Paragraph 1 of part 11 of article 9 should read: “Participation in its work in person without the right to delegate its powers to others, including other members of the Public Council of International Experts”; (d) In paragraph 3 of the eleventh word of article 9, the words 'conclusion of inadequacy' shall be replaced by 'correspondence'; ( g) Part 12 of article 9 should be deleted. The other one. To reject the rights under headings 747, 748, 758, 759, 762, 763, 765 and part of the sixth article 8, read: "In the case of the same rating position as the results of the qualification evaluation for the appointment of the judge of the High Court of Appeal, the advantage is given to the participant who has obtained the number of points for the examination conducted within the procedure of the qualification evaluation of the practical task and, at the same number of points, usually to the participant who has a higher job in the court in the court of appeal, the machining institution. In the event that participants taking part in a competition for the appointment of a judge of the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Anti-Corruption have the same status as a judge in a court of appeal, a cassation or not, the advantage is given to a participant who has more experience in the work of a judge, and the presence of participants who have the same qualifications as a judge, a participant who has a degree in science, and the presence of both participants in a scientific degree, or the absence of participants in a scientific degree, a higher level of professional activity in the field of law. In the case of the same rating position as the result of the qualification evaluation for participation in the competition for other judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court, the advantage is given to a participant who has obtained more points for the examination conducted within the qualification evaluation procedure, a practical task and, at the same number of points, usually to a participant who has more experience in the post of judge. In the event that the participants have the same job as the judge or are not in the same position, the participant is given an advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u88	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u89	"..existence in both subjects of the scientific level is a higher level of professional activity in the field of law." Third. Reject 1682-1687, 1689-1690 and article 31, paragraph 1.2, of the 12th chapter of the CPC, as follows: "First, in the court of the first instance, a collegiate court composed of three judges, at least one of whom has been employed for at least five years, except in cases where no such judge in this court is able to take part in a legal case." And secondly, in an appeal order, a collegiate court composed of three judges, at least one of whom usually has an internship as a judge for at least five years, except in cases where no judge in this court is able to take part in the case under this law. The criminal conduct in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court during the pretrial investigation is carried out by the investigating judge on a one-person basis, and in the event of the charges, he is taken into appeal by a college court of at least three judges." Four. Consider the number 149 part and part of the first article 5 as follows: "First. The number of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court shall be determined in accordance with the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Status Act, within the expenditure provided for in the National Budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of this court, and with a separate establishment, within the number of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the number of judges of the High Court of Appeal. Fifth. Take into account 422 editorially and paragraph 1 of the first part of the second article 7 as follows: "A judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukrainian Citizens may be appointed if he meets the requirements of the candidates for the post of judge provided for by the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Act and has the knowledge and practical skills necessary to prosecute corruption cases and meets one of the following requirements: " Six. Take into account the rights of 664, 665, 667, 673 in part and part of the fourth article 8 in the following wording: "In order to contribute to the Higher Qualification of Judges of Ukraine's establishment for the purposes of qualified assessment of the conformity of candidates for the posts of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court with the criteria of integrity (morals, honesty, integrity), namely, the legality of the sources of origin, the conformity of the standard of living of the candidate or members of his family with the declared income, the conformity of the way of life of the candidate, his status, the availability of knowledge and practical skills to deal with cases, the relationship to the jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court, the Public Council of International Experts is formed. The Public Council of Virtue, established in accordance with the Court of Justice Act, is not involved at the time of the activities of the Public Council of International Experts." - and beyond the text. Part seven. In paragraph 1 of part two of article 9 (number 845), the word "seven" should be replaced by the word "six". Eight. To take into account the bill 930 in part and part of the third article 9, to read: "Members of the Public Council of International Experts may be citizens of Ukraine or foreigners who have an irreprehensible business reputation, high professional and moral qualities, social authority, have the experience of working in other countries for at least 5 years from the exercise of procedural guidance, the maintenance of public charges in court or the exercise of judicial proceedings in cases of corruption." Nine. Take into account the number 1011 partially and part of the sixth article 9 as follows: "At the time of the participation of members of the Public Council of International Experts in the selection procedures for the appointment of judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, they are awarded a salary in the size of the official salary of the Supreme Court judge. Members of the Public Council of International Experts, who do not regularly reside in Ukraine, have the right to compensation for expenses of living in Ukraine and to move." Ten. Take into account the rights of 1457-1462, 1471-1477, 1480-1485, 1492, 1496-1499, 1500-1502, 1506-1512, which excludes parts of the second to sixth articles of the 11th bill governing the conduct of a psychological study. - and further down the line, using a polygraph." Eleven. Take into account 1618, 1669, excuse me, 1668, 1669, 1784, 1785, 1786 as regards the conduct of ship-expert activities. Twelve. Consider partial criminal proceedings in 1788, 1791, concerning the application of criminal law enforcement measures to a local court within the jurisdiction of which the judicial investigation body is located. Thirteen. To take into account the legal provisions of 1818, 1819, 1820 concerning the guarantee of the independence of the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, bearing in mind that in article 480-1, “The nature of the initial criminal investigation of criminal offences committed by a judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court”, part one of the first article is to be written in the following wording: “The knowledge which may indicate that a criminal offence has been committed by a judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is placed in the Single Register of Criminal Investigations by the Attorney General” in the order established by the Code. Fourteen. Take into account the 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1913, 1914, 1915, which excludes section IV, paragraph 8, V, I'm sorry, VI "The Final and Transitional Provisions" for the approval of the procedure for conducting annual psychophysical research." The committee also points out the need to take into account previously announced draft legislation by the chairman of the committee of individual editorial and technical legal changes, including. I'm not going to read the list anymore because I read it at the meeting. In this regard, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice decided: Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court for (registration number 7440) to be adopted on second reading and in general, taking into account the proposed editorial committee's second reading and proposals put forward by the committee in this decision, as well as the adoption of the bill as a law to entrust the committee, together with the Chief Legal Directorate of the Supreme Council's Office, to carry out editorial and technical legal drafting of its text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u90	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize again, a very difficult and difficult work has been done. You remember, the last position that was discussed was the Council of Public Experts' mandate. And the main position was agreed that there should be at least three international experts in a joint vote between the panel and the judges of the qualifying commission and the Public Council of International Experts. This is a position that I discussed with our international partners two weeks ago -- not less than three, not less than three members of the Public Council of International Experts, and this is clearly stated in the committee's decision. So the committee's decision took full account of the key positions that were recommended to us by the Venice Commission. Colleagues, in order to be correct, I'm going to put the first vote -- support for the committee's decision, they've done a little bit of work. And I'm going to be the first to vote in favour of the committee's decision, where all of these proposals are actually taken into account, colleagues, where they are actually all. And in order to ensure a public process, they were given to everyone. In addition, the committee lasted two hours, and everyone had the opportunity to get to know all the positions in the committee’s decision. And so, colleagues, I ask now, first to support the committee's decision, and then to vote for the law itself. So, honourable colleagues, national deputies, I ask you to support the committee's decision on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act (No. 7440), and I ask you to support the committee's decision by voting, yes, the committee's decision, and then the vote. Please support the committee's decision. Colleagues, this is a historic moment. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. These are the proposals we agreed on. [[13:28:54]] For-286 And so we can move on to the historic moment of voting for the law itself. Dear National Deputies! I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I now invite you to the Hall and the President of Ukraine, and ask all the officials to come to the Hall. I'm voting on the draft law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (No. 7440), which we just read and just voted on, and I supported the Ukrainian Parliament with technical and legal rights in the second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, it's a historic decision. Please support, please vote, vote, vote, vote, fellow Members. [[13:30:03]] For 315 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I welcome the entire session room, this is a great victory, and once again the Supreme Council has demonstrated its ability, and its readiness for the most difficult reforms. Welcome, colleagues, to the President of Ukraine. I invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u91	Dear Ukrainian people! This is the victory, the victory of Ukraine, the victory of the Ukrainian people, my victory as President of Ukraine, the victory of the Ukrainian Parliament in the leadership of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parubi, the victory of the Ukrainian government in the leadership of Prime Minister Groissman, and the victory of every national MP of 315, who voted in favour of the Presidential Bill and today has revealed green light to the creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. My greetings to you! [[Applause]] Today we have completed the formation of anti-corruption infrastructure. And I want to stress the determination of the Ukrainian authorities to fight corruption, because in no country in the world is there such a strong legislative act adopted by this Parliament and signed by me. An anti-corruption court with this level of independence, with this level of protection, with this, hopefully, level of efficiency, we have to do it as quickly as possible. Some criticized me when I asked to complete the procedure for setting up an anticorruption court in Ukraine in 2018. It's not a promise, it's our business with you. And that's why I want to go to the government and the Ministry of Finance to open up funding for the establishment of an anti-corruption court. I would like to refer to the international organizations that are now to propose to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges of the relevant candidates to the International Council of Experts, which will play a central role in the formation of the court, along with the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. I want to address the candidates: Ukrainian candidates who represent the people of Ukraine, the judiciary, the legal corps, the scientists -- don't be afraid, don't be afraid to participate in the competition, serve Ukraine, secure an independent one. the functioning of an effective and independent anti-corruption court, because only because of your indifference can this not happen. I think today is a historic day. I welcome you all. And I just want to thank you in person, thank you for a very nice gift for the fourth anniversary of my presidency. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Welcome, everyone, to all the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the adoption of historic law. Welcome to the government. Welcome to the President. This is another victory of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, is the question of determining the candidate from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission of external control from an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the activities of the NAB. And I, colleagues, ask you to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back up the procedure, or we won't be able to make it. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:35:48]] For 193 Decision taken. My colleagues, I would like to point out that your consideration raises questions about the definition of a candidate as part of an external control commission. According to part six of article 26 of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, an independent evaluation is conducted every year. The evaluation is carried out by an external control committee of three members. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Preventing and Opposing Corruption held an open and public competition during which all candidates were discussed. And yesterday, the committee proposed to the Supreme Council two candidatures: Vasilska Vladimir Andriyovich and Thomas Firestone. In this way, we can move on to this issue, and I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the prevention and resistance of corruption by Yuri Petrovich Savichuk. I would like to point out that, after the discussion, there will be two candidates' ratings, and then only the majority candidate will be put to the vote and supported accordingly. Please, Yuri Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u93	Good afternoon, Reverend Andriy Volodymyrovich, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. First of all, from this high rostrum, I want to thank the colleagues of my committee who stayed on the committee yesterday, and we worked together on this very important issue for the anti-corruption policy of the state. Thus, of April 04, 2018, pursuant to article 14, 33-1, 49, 50 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee Act, article 26 of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act and regulations on the organisation and conduct of the qualification selection of representatives from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the composition of the independent external evaluation commission of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the committee decided to announce the qualification selection of a representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the independent external evaluation commission of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The candidates had the relevant requirements of section six, paragraph 2, of article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Five persons were assigned to the Committee for Qualifying Selection. For the purpose of openness and transparency of the committee, information was published on candidates for public discussion. On June 6, 2018, at a committee meeting following a discussion of the documents submitted and interviews with each candidate, including in video mode, it was decided by the committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a representative from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission of external control to assess the effectiveness of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine and the following candidates. Vasilko Vladimir Andrijevic is Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u94	Please give me a minute to finish. This very important issue is now under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u95	Vasilko Vladimir Andriyovich is an international Ukrainian legal scientist, a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine, a doctor of legal sciences, a professor. I got 13 votes in the committee's rating vote. Thomas Firestone is a lawyer, partner of Baker & McKenzie International Law Firm, United States. I got 10 votes on the committee's rating. Please appoint a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the NAB audit committee. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill. As you know, two-for-two-against, discussion. Please, you can go to your workplace. Please sign up. Colleagues, and as long as it's recording, let me make an announcement. A statement came to the fore by the national deputy, Mrs. Southanina, Nina Jujanina, asking to be announced that her card worked when she voted in favour of the anti-corruption court committee, but her card did not work while voting for the law itself. And just like that, there are no statements before the presidency, but from the seat of Deputy Mustafa Nayem, he screams and cries that his card didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't work in the polls for an anti-corruption court. So we don't have 315, we have 317 votes in favour. I continue to announce, please, the deputies who have registered for this vote. Please, Igor Lapin. For discussion. Please, Mr. Lapin, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, today we can conclude our morning session on a very, very good note, if we are going to make a decision and vote. Because the question that is currently being discussed is not what is ripe, it has already matured several times. So I urge the deputies not to leave the room and take part in the vote and choose a worthy candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u98	Thank you for your position from the People's Front faction. And now I'd like to invite you to join us from the "Peter Dust Block" of Sergey Kaplin. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u99	I want to welcome the entire Ukrainian people who. Millions, tens of millions of our compatriots, both here in the country and abroad, our diaspora with what the Ukrainian Parliament has taken the first and most important step in the real fight against corruption, the development of anti-corruption infrastructure and the expected decision by the parliament to create an anti-corruption court was taken by a constitutional majority. Now our task is to mobilize the efforts of public activists, the social movements, the organizations that will fight so that as soon as possible such a court will be created so that the judges will actually be virtuous. So that, in fact, all the questions that are now suspended, unfinished, unresolved and corrupt people who are not punished are finally punished. We urge you to continue our difficult fight against corruption today, to continue making important, extremely serious decisions, including the appointment of audiences. And I would like to point out once again that my colleague Alexander Sugonjako and I voted in favour of the right decision and we will do everything we can to make sure that all anti-corruption infrastructure works. But at the same time, we emphasize that this is just the first step. Because me and my colleague, Alexander Sugonjako, are supporting the idea and the the thesis that the real fight against corruption is raising wages, it's a struggle to increase the size of the Pension Fund, increase pensions, protect ordinary, average Ukrainians. This is what they need first. And then they're all going to be the only front in the fight against corruption in Ukraine. So, taking this opportunity, I call on the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of the country, to work together to increase the wages of ordinary Ukrainians, to increase the gross domestic product, to launch a campaign to re-industrialize our country, to develop innovation and to build a new, modern economy, and to increase the welfare of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u100	Thank you for the talk. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. He passes the word to Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The candidate of a professor, a well-known lawyer, a lawyer by Vladimir Vasilenko is an extremely successful, excellent and very right-wing candidate to be an auditor of the NAB. A person who has served justice, the law, foreshadowed and defended Ukraine’s interests in the highest international halls deserves our full support. And I'm calling on the entire parliament to make a decision and to elect Vladimir Vasilenko as an NAB auditor to conduct an independent audit and to make sure that the millions of wages paid by the Ukrainians, the billions of wages paid by the Ukrainians to this newly created anti-corruption infrastructure, make sure that all the infrastructure actually works, so that people don't be mistreated again, as with a well-known reform, a fair trial by President Prashenko. One percent of Ukrainians trust this reform. But every wage, every cosmic pension, every benefit, and everything. Pensioners, workers, peasants, budgeters are told that there is no money to raise wages, to raise pensions. For everyone else, for prosecutors, for judges, space money is available. We need to turn our faces back to the people, because the key thing that Ukrainians want is justice, justice for themselves, justice for the country, justice for their children. The Radical Party team is fighting for justice!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the representative of the Self-Help faction, Yegor Sobolev, is now invited to the floor. He will present his faction's position on the candidates under discussion. Please. Please, Mr. Yegor. Yes, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u103	First of all, I propose to invite candidates. I think it's Parliament's fault to vote blindly. You have to ask each person a question, be responsible. Secondly, I want to pay attention to all that the law provides for external audit, the law provides that a person is not working here, there is no interest, there is no family, there is no connection to which he can be taken. This room is very familiar with this problem. So the Self-Help faction will definitely support an American prosecutor who's been persecuting Russian oligarchs in his professional activities and recommending that everyone else do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u104	Thank you. So the discussion between factions and groups is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Now, by way of a rating vote for each candidate, I propose to determine separately for the support of the candidate. Once again, I would like to point out that the candidate who will win the largest number of votes on the basis of the results of the rating vote will be in favour of the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's move on to the rating first. First, before the rating vote on each candidature. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I'm betting on Vasilnik Vladimir Andriyovich's nomination for an external control committee to conduct an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of NAB's activities from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who's in favour, please vote. Rating vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. For Vasilka, the rating vote. [[13:48:50]] For 276 276. I'm betting on Thomas Firestone's candidature for an external control committee to conduct an independent assessment of the effectiveness of NABU's activities from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. [[13:49:21]] For 208 According to the results of the rating vote and in accordance with article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, I put to the vote the question of the definition of Wasilnik Vladimir Andriyovich, who obtained more votes during the rating vote, to be identified by his member of the external control commission for carrying out an independent evaluation of the effective activities of NABA than the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:50:08]] For 289 I'm announcing the appointment of Vasilek Vladimir Andriyovich as a member of the External Control Board for the independent evaluation of the effectiveness of NABU activities from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to issue a ruling on the consequences of our decision. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Decision taken. The next issue is the Ukrainian Diplomatic Service Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine (7322). I remind you, there's a special procedure, two reports, then a question to them, and then a vote. So I'm looking at draft Law 7322 on Diplomatic Service. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. And I want to announce immediately that I am continuing the morning session for 15 minutes so that we can make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council's law on diplomatic service cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. The law that came to be signed provides for mandatory consultations at the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs to be held by the minister of foreign affairs to appoint the Head of State to serve as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine, Permanent Representative of Ukraine to an international organization. In the proposals for this law, the President of Ukraine points out that this does not correspond to the constitutionally defined status and authority of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that committees are established by the Supreme Council for legislative work, preparation and prior consideration of matters related to its powers, and for the exercise of control functions in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed that committees are bodies of the Supreme Council that ensure that parliamentary powers are exercised, and their activities are related to the resolution of issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It should be noted that the Supreme Council Committees Act, which defines the organization and order of the committees, provides for a preliminary discussion of the candidates only those elected by the Supreme Council, appoints, approves or agrees to their appointment, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide Parliament with any authority to elect, appoint, approve or grant an appointment to an extraordinary and authorized Ambassador of Ukraine, a permanent representative of Ukraine. That is why the President of Ukraine proposes that the second part of article 14 of the new law on diplomatic service should be deleted. In addition, the law that came upon the signature provided for the definition of special missions as temporary missions, representing Ukraine in character and heading for Ukraine to another state. At the same time, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine is mandated to determine the status of tasks and the functions of special missions. In doing so, it should be noted that the Ukrainian Constitution for the conduct of foreign policy leadership of the State is based on the President of Ukraine. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, under the basic law, ensures the implementation of foreign policy, directs and coordinates the activities of ministries. In this regard, it should also be noted that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of 15.02.2009 No. 2-PN/209, noted that the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have separate constitutional powers in the field of external political activity. For this reason, only the President of Ukraine, as Head of State, is empowered to exercise authority over this activity. In view of this, the President of Ukraine proposes that the words “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” be deleted in the first part of article 5 in paragraph 1. Ladies and gentlemen, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u106	Thank you. It's an invitation from you. to the report of the committee's deputy head in foreign affairs, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been working on a bill on diplomatic service as part of its working group, which I have had the privilege of leading for over 1.5 years. The committee completed this work in June last year, from June last year and until June this year, a year passed when Ukrainian diplomacy through the President and his administration had no law on diplomatic service. The president's year was delayed. And what I'm going to say is that the question of the principle that was and should be fundamental to all of us MPs is whether the candidates for the heads of diplomatic representation will be consulted. Consultations are not about making decisions at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and this practice has been the case since 1991, when the Commission heard candidates for heads of diplomatic representation in foreign affairs. Thus, this practice existed until 2011, when in the days of Yanukovitch it was destroyed and the Ukrainian Parliament was deprived of this mechanism of parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is one of the functions of any parliament and above all the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This role of parliamentary control was performed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What is wrong with the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs would consult candidates? Nothing bad. This is evidenced by the practice, including that of today's President, when candidates for diplomatic representation came to the committee, there were meaningful, professional discussions with members of the committee, and as a result, the President made a decision that he was entitled to under the Constitution. So it's not about violating the President's right to appoint, in accordance with the Constitution, heads of diplomatic representation, but it's only about the function of very important parliamentary control. In this regard, I would like to say that this is not about innovation by means of reconstruction, about a return to consultations at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but only about the practice that was actually banned during Yanukovich’s time. What is the point in this regard? This is about confirming parliamentary control functions in the parliamentary-presidential republic. And this happens during the time of the attack on Parliamentarianism, the harassment and the stigmatization of the Supreme Council. So I would like to address all of you, the distinguished national MPs, all of you who appreciate the trust of their constituents. I appeal to all of you who appreciate parliamentaryism in Ukraine to speak in defence of democratic parliamentaryism. Your vote will be a lakh paper -- I repeat this word the third time -- a lakus paper about your attitude towards you as national deputies and the Supreme Council as a whole. So I hope that the Supreme Council, that you will all support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, at its meeting yesterday by a majority vote, rejected both proposals by the President of Ukraine. It will depend on our vote whether, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said today, the Supreme Council is the center of decision-making in the state or not. So I urge you to support the Committee's decision on foreign matters and not support the proposal, both of which are the President's proposals. One of these proposals violates the rights of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, and the second proposal actually violates the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine, which explicitly states the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to form delegations to sign contracts that are the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, both of these proposals have failed and do not have the consent of the Committee in foreign matters. And on behalf of the Committee's consent in foreign matters, I am addressing this room without supporting the President's proposal. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u108	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, and I'd like everyone's attention. Colleagues! I'm asking everyone to pay as much attention as possible, because there's going to be a vote. I want to tell you that in 2008, 2009, 2010, I was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At that time, we, all the ambassadors, were consulted and represented on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And I have a strong belief that this should be the case. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Law on the Diplomatic Service has now been at stake in this room, which has been preparing for years and has been the most involved in this work by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. I know what great efforts and how much diplomatic school awaits this law. So I conducted the necessary consultations, and I ask you to listen. I agreed – I stress that this is my principle position – that a presidential decree be issued, in which I will now read: “The procedure for submitting nominations for the appointment of the Ambassador of Ukraine, the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the international organizations, the representative of Ukraine to the international organization, the Head of Mission shall be determined by the joint decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the question of diplomatic service is referred. That is, after the law has been voted on, a decree will determine the obligation to represent candidates for ambassadors to a professional committee in foreign affairs. Why am I so worried? I know it's a compromise, but if we don't support it, we can lose the law, which I think is much more dangerous. I want to confirm once again for everyone that in the event of a vote, there will be a President's decree to regulate. And this is my personal position, and I insist on it, and I can guarantee that this decree will appear in the near future. And so, colleagues, in order for the law to not be destroyed, I ask you to support this proposal, and I think it will be very important to support Ukrainian diplomats. I'm also compromising to keep the law that you've been drafting for many years. And so, colleagues, we're going to vote, and I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I will continue for 15 minutes, this is my right as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. Colleagues, so we don't go back then, I'm asking the faction heads to pollinate right now so everyone's in the workplace. And please let the secretariat know that everyone is in the hall. All right. No, it's not a form that predicts, it's a performance. So I'm the first to put to the vote the support proposal, the adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine of Law 7322 "On Diplomatic Service" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote, please support us to keep the law. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. Please support me with the President's proposals. [[14:03:59]] For 226 The decision is taken, the law is passed. [[Applause]] And our diplomats get the opportunity to get all the respect from the state. Colleagues, attention, attention! He came to me. Attention! Don't leave. The Prime Minister has requested that we consider the personnel issue proposed by the Minister and continue the morning session before his consideration. I'll put this motion to the vote, and the room will be determined. So the Ukrainian government, the Prime Minister, is asking us to continue the morning session to consider the personnel issue of the liberation of Daniluk from the position of finance minister of Ukraine. Anyone who supports this proposal: continue the morning session to consider the matter, please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. Continue the morning session. [[14:05:01]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I propose to continue the morning session on the issue of the human resources issue of the liberation of Daniluk from the position of Ukraine's finance minister. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. Vote. [[14:05:31]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. It's a short-term procedure. I will not repeat it five times. Please vote. [[14:06:08]] For 206 Decision taken. And I give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the budget, Sergio Ivanovich Melnik, for the report, in five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u109	Good afternoon, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, invited. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on June 6, 2018, reviewed the Government's draft Decree 8433, introducing the Prime Minister for the release of Alexander Alexandrovitch from office as Minister of Finance. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment and release of members of the government is part of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Following the stated constitutional position, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Supreme Council Decree 8433, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u110	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to inform you that under the Rules the Minister is given the floor. He'll be here in five or seven minutes. I just spoke to him. By the time he gets to the hall, we're having a discussion. And then I'll give him the right word for five minutes. Please hold the recording. Please record: two in, two in. Please vote. This is a faction statement, please. From "self-help" the word for the performance is Babak Oleni Valeriyovni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u111	I'd like you to pass it on to Aunt Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u112	Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u113	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Political bickering is what we're looking at in this room right now. And while the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are "pulling the ropes" and sharing powers and influences over the State Fiscal Service, which today unites both tax and customs, key reforms in Ukraine are procrastinating and failing. This is also the reform of the DFS, this is customs reform, this is the reform of the LAG. We see now all the reasons for the collapse of medical reform. The government never gave us an answer to the question, which is why and how it's going to pay off the debt both in this and in the following year. We don't know what kind of government is offering us points of growth today. And at this time, customs are governed by criminal authorities, clans, local feuds, directs whoever we have today's customs, we don't have a DFS head, we don't even have a head today that's in charge of customs. Irresponsibility is the result of the government's work in tax, customs and budgetary policy. These are claims to both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Because of customs schemes, our budget loses at least, according to modest estimates, between 75 billion and 100 billion dollars a year. At this time, it was discovered in the 17th year of theft and exodus for only one and a half billion years, and 30 million to the budget. This is the price of government work in tax and customs policy. Do you want to resign the Minister of Finance today? It won't work, Volodymyr Borisovich. You. You won't be able to write down all the responsibility and hang all the dogs on it. You promised us two years ago to show us how to run the country. So go and work both of you, and not capable, and all of you retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u114	Please make the next statement. Oleg Lazko and his faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u115	Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the millions of Ukrainians who seek happiness from foreigners, instead of earning money, living in their own country, I ask you with very simple questions: what is the government's plan for overcoming poverty? How are you going to stop mass labour migration? Where is your program of industrial recovery, animal production, agro-processing? When will you raise millions of Ukrainians to pay? When will you list millions of Ukrainians, such as former colporteurs, with pensions? When are you gonna get the customs order so there's no smuggling? When will you offer a society, a country, a citizen of politics that will give them confidence tomorrow? What can you say for young people, 56 percent wants to go abroad? Because with this policy run by the authorities, they do not see the future. What can you say for 1.5 million Ukrainians who are ill? A representative of your government says they don't need to be treated because they're going to die anyway. What can you tell many families and young boys and girls who are afraid to have children because they have nowhere to live, where to make money, and why to buy a pack of diapers? Vladimir Borisovich, what you can tell yourself, your conscience, your heart, your family, your wonderful parents, who have studied you, have made you a man. The Lord gave you a chance. How do you, as Prime Minister, realize this opportunity to make a better country for all Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u116	Please welcome Maxim Burbak, head of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support the submission of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, because that's perfectly logical, that's his right, because in his work he has to rely on a team that supports him. And no conflict should disrupt the unity and monolith of this team. The Ministers of the People's Front are real and worthy members of this team, because the coalition government must continue the reforms that began in the 14th year by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. I want to remind you of the 14th year, Volodymyr Borisovich, when we were with you in the first government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk and were the only monolithic team that made important decisions that turned our state away from the economic default and from defeating the aggressor. I'd like to go to the minister right now and ask. I remember that in the 16th year, when the only right, responsible political decision of the state husband on the transfer of power was taken, and the People's Front didn't leave the coalition, there were 100 billion dollars in the only treasury account. Please tell me, why is it 20 now or less? I want to say how a major deputy who supported a lot of MPs an experiment that was introduced in the 15th year, when 50 percent of the excess revenue from customs, or smuggling, was left in the construction and repair of roads, why is there no money this year? Because they've come up with a plan -- they can't do it, they can't do it, they can't do it, they can't do it, they can't do it, they can't go to rehab, they can't fix it, they can't fix it. And there's a lot of such issues in our faction. So, once again, we will support the submission of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, we will support the initiative of our colleagues in the Peter Prashenko Coalition and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u118	Thank you for your performance. And please, the next speaker is from Sergey Kaplin's "Peter Dust Block." Please, Mr. Sergey. The chapel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u119	Personally, me and my colleague, Alexander Leonidovich Sugonjako, and my other colleagues will support this resignation. We believe that it is immoral and criminal to be in the position of the key ministry, the head of the key ministry of the minister, who, officially looking into the eyes of tens of millions of Ukrainians, claims that raising the minimum wage is unacceptable. The people who have built these factories, who have built these factories, and whose low wages today are barely living, barely exist in our nation. We find it absolutely unacceptable to continue to serve as the finance minister of a person who claims that the state does not have the capacity to raise pensions for our pensioners, for tens of millions of our fellow countrymen. Looking at how the pensioners live today in Poland, how the pensioners live today in Romania and in other countries, in particular the post-Radians states that have a double to triple pension, and how our pensioners live, we have no right to talk about the fact that there is no money in the state to raise pensions for our pensioners. It is unacceptable for a finance minister to remain silent when the management of Naftogazu Ukraine, without receiving all the preferences without getting all the money, is making incredible gifts for tens of millions of euros. Many millions of wages paid by heads of state - owned enterprises are unacceptable. And at the same time, at the same time, our pensioners get a pit, our workers get a pit, they don't get a pension for military pensioners. We're in two hands for the resignation of such a minister of finance. And we call for a change in the government's rate and an increase in pensions, an increase in wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u120	Thank you. It's from Fatherland. Won't there be a performance from Fatherland? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister! We were also surprised when we were assigned to the government when Janukovich's advisors gathered in one government, which issue we are now discussing, who was advising Yanukovich, how to get the country out of the crisis, and what he led to, we saw it in Yanukovic. Then he decided to advise the government. How many times have you seen a minister of finance looking at the most important issues of this country? But there are others working in this government -- those who advised Kolobov. How many will you endure in this government?Oh, my God! How long will this government be made up of those who passed Midan and those who worked at Yanukovich?Oh, my God! Our faction has decided to vote in favour of the minister of finance, and there can be no other issue. But our proposal is to immediately start a review of a number of other candidates, who unfortunately represent the government of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u122	Thank you. From the opposition block faction, Skorik. And then Rebirth, by the size of the factions. Scorch, and then Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, Mr. Prime Minister! Today there is another example of hypocrisy and cynicism, because, today, when asking about the vote concerning Mr. Daniluk's minister, unfortunately, the Prime Minister has forgotten that there is a similar submission from the National Deputies concerning Mr. Daniluk's colleague Mrs. Suprun. And in this regard, the Prime Minister is doing nothing to listen to the people of Ukraine and most of them in this room. The results of the work of the current minister of finance can be estimated in very short, literally a few figures. When inflation was claimed for this year, about 7 percent of the first quarter of inflation was 13.8 percent. All questions about the revenue part of the budget for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u124	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u125	I'm sorry, I thought I had two minutes. I propose, colleagues, to vote in favour of Mr. Daniluk's resignation, and I very much hope that this will be the first tray and will be followed by Mr. Groissman, Mrs. Suprun and all the current authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u126	From Rebirth to Rebirth Group, Victor Bondar is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I'm glad that the authorities finally started listening to what we're saying a little bit faster than before. If three years ago we talked about the problem of Gonnaareva, that it's ruining the banking system and people can't get their investments, then the authorities heard it two years later, after other ministers a year and a half and so on, they finally started listening earlier. We've been talking over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, we've been talking over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and You get credit and you don't answer what you're spending it on, you don't have a balanced tax and customs policy. As there was corruption, schemes, that's all that's left. Four years from the two governments, we saw four concepts of tax reform and the customs system. In summary, they were canceled, changed, changed, released, and the schemes, as they were, worked. And, more than that, the minister was cut off from the State Fiscal Service. You're confused, your right hand doesn't know what it's doing to your left.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u128	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u129	You don't make money off budget, you don't balance everything, and you make hostages to ministers and so on. And ministers make the government hostage, and then they get lost, and you don't know what you're doing. There is no development strategy, there is no new economic policy, there is no restoration of industry, there is no restoration of energy, there is no transport and there is no order in the fiscal service, there is no tax and there is no tax. There's the budget revenue and there's the growth of the economy, not what you're doing today. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u130	Thank you. From the "will of the people" group, Vladimir Litwin is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine! The Minister of Finance in any government is the second person in office. But I think today's finance minister is, in fact, not the minister of the Ukrainian government, but the minister of the International Monetary Fund. This is the first time. I read the "minister's cry" that he's not trading Ukraine, and that he's demonstrating his principles and he's resigning. So I'll tell you what, you've already sold Ukraine. I'll remind you, the petitions for the grant, and what your answers were, the unworthy ministers, which was usually signed by the deputy, and you didn't want to talk to the people's deputies. So I think today, not just the resignation, but paragraph 2 should be added: to the law enforcement authorities to investigate the activities of the minister of finance, including his own tools. And I think it's going to be the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Colleagues, now. There was no discussion of the Minister of Finance at the beginning. Now he's coming. And I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Alexander Alexander Daniluk in five minutes. Colleagues, after that, are a short speech by the Prime Minister and a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to split my speech into two parts. First. Today is no doubt a historic day. We have taken a step toward building a modern, responsible, and mature state. I congratulate you on this decision. And I welcome all the Ukrainians with a new structure in the country aimed at a real fight against corruption. Thank you. Now I'm going to the second part. You will now vote on my resignation. I'm being incriminated by what I brought out of the room, as they say. We don't have a word so good that it doesn't have a Ukrainian analogy. When you gave me the authority of the finance minister, I didn't go into the room -- I went to build an effective, modern financial system of the country, I went to fight corruption, I went to fight the embezzlement of state funds, I went to create a modern, effective financial investigation service. With honor and dignity, I defended the country’s interests to international partners. The letter I wrote is obvious, and it contains well - known facts. In particular, for more than a year, the State Fiscal Service has a semi-legislative and fully-managed leader, so the reform of this most important body is not taking place. The work of the DFS has been fuelled by corruption and conflicts of interest. It is not possible to assign a professional to a position of trust when a position is the subject of trade between political forces. Unfortunately, the situation in the DFS is typical of all important bodies in Ukraine. It is the weakness, engagement, corruption, and mistrust of citizens. Tell me what's not true here? That's what Ukrainians talk about in the kitchens, that's what your electorate is arguing about in social networks, that's what you're talking about in the classrooms. And that, that's what discredits our country in the eyes of the world and makes us weaker. If you disagree with what I just said, vote in favour of my resignation. There's no man. There's no problem. But in the 21st century, such principles do not work. State decisions must be made, not guided by a billion - dollar - worth teenage complex. Since the appointment of the minister, I have constantly heard allegations that I am a defender of the interests of international organizations. No! No! I defend the interests of the Ukrainians. I want to remind you that in the 13th, 14th years, people went out on the street just as the state gave up European civilisation and cooperation with international institutions. I want to remind you that it's because of our cooperation with international partners that we endured in the 14th and 15th years. And I have some bad news for you. The people of Ukraine have much more confidence in international institutions than in you and me. Today, I am responsible for saying that cooperation with international organisations is the only alternative to cooperation with Russia. And so it will be until we create strong independent authorities and restore confidence in citizens. And each of you knows that. Since the first day of my assignment, I have been building a professional technical financial unit in the country, free of political pressure and election calendar. This is a critical condition for survival and success in today’s world. That's how I understand the basic task of a finance minister. I don't accept the circular rule, I break this paradigm, which is a burden for the development of our country. That's why I fired Roman Nasirov, the head of the DFS. Although many, especially those in this room, refused to do so and said that this disrupted an understandable balance. That's why I convinced you in this room (please, two minutes), not to reinstate the tax police in this room. You heard me then, thank you. That's why I demanded reform and shortening the funding of the Attorney General's Office. To get business and society out of the constant press of this RUDR and the source of corruption. That's why Minfin was not afraid to take the lead in nationalizing Private Bank and protecting the interests of 20 million citizens from one of the strongest, largest energy groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u134	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Mr. Alexander, we have the same rules for all of us. 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u135	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Although those who were supposed to do this with me were fearfully hiding in their offices or working openly for my private interests. That's why I initiated a lawsuit against the Colombians in the London Court, filing a fraud suit. And there are people who have been in the way of doing it, and they've been asking me to make a deal. The same people have prevented us from putting in place a system of automatic VAT compensation that has finally worked and ended corruption in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u136	Ten seconds, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u137	30 seconds. That's what I've been going to Minfin for, that's what I've always been doing at work, and that's what I'm going to do. And I urge you to break the circle message, otherwise Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u138	Thank you. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is now invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u139	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u140	Saska, I've given, I've moved on twice. Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u141	Start right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u142	Thank you. So the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited to the floor. There'll be a vote in three minutes. I ask all the deputies to come into the hall and ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national deputies! I'd be more pleased if I could talk about the significant achievements of the minister of finance and ministry, but I think the minister has just given me completely misunderstood information on many issues. If it were a year ago, a year and a half ago, I'd realize it's true and a cry of the soul. But I never understood his incident at a government meeting regarding the provocation of totally emotional misconduct. This will be confirmed by all the ministers present. Moreover, after this government meeting, when I arrived in Brussels to negotiate extremely important negotiations, I met with a letter from the minister of finance, it was completely incomprehensible to me and, in my opinion, even inadequate. I invited the minister and told him that it was impossible to act against the state, and I gave him two weeks to correct the situation and to approach our international partners objectively. I think there's a lot to say to the Ukrainian Parliament and to the team of deputy ministers of finance who worked with you every day on committees that cared about the issues of reform that did their job of quality, you know. I remember your complaints at the expense of the Ministry of Finance. But I've always tried to avoid any conflict and maybe cover up some underwork. I'm asking you today as head of the Ukrainian government to support my submission and to satisfy my application for the resignation of Ukraine's finance minister. There's a strong team, we'll be fine, we'll work quality further, Ukraine will be stronger. We have a plan, and we're implementing it. And right now, I'm very sorry that the Minister of Finance didn't even understand the reason for my submission to the Ukrainian Parliament. It's all his fault, not him. But unfortunately, that is not the case, and there is no future in this position, including political one. Thank you. And please support my application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'd like everyone to take their seats. I am voting for the whole of the draft Order No. 8433 on the release of Daniluk Alexandre Alexandrovitch from the post of Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:33:42]] For 254
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m0.u145	Decision taken. The colleagues, in this way, have completed our consideration of the subject. It's been decided. But our work after a break is not delayed. At 16 o'clock, we'll move on to the Drafting Order. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 4:00. We had a busy but very fruitful morning session. And now I'm closing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall.
