ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please come into the hall, take your seats. So, honourable national MPs, please register and please take part in the registration. [[10:04:13]] There are 340 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today's our colleague's birthday. And I'd like to welcome Olga Vadimovna Bogopolitan with my birthday. Mrs. Ola, welcome to your birthday! Anatolia Sergeiovich Matvienka, "Peter Dust Block." Mr. Anatoly, welcome to your birthday! And Vadim Ivanovich Podobraznjak. [[Applause]] Mr. Wadim, welcome to your birthday! Welcome to all the nouns. Also, dear colleagues, I want to tell you the good news from our European allies. Yesterday, the Committee of the European Parliament approved amendments to the gas directive, according to which the rules of the Third Energy Package should extend to marine gas pipelines linking the EU to third countries. This regulation can block the construction of North Stream 2 and this is an important step towards the end of the North Stream 2 project. We now await the decision of the European Parliament. And I urge all of our fellow European parliamentarians to support this decision. And also, colleagues, I want to report that today in the Supreme Council we are celebrating the fourth anniversary of the National Guard of Ukraine. Four years ago, in 2014 in a critical state, I had the honour to report from the parliamentary rostrum the Ukrainian National Guard Act. Then, in the wake of Russian aggression, the National Guard created key units that allowed volunteers to go to the front, which are present today in the hall. Today we celebrated the memory of four young guards who died on August 31, 2015 in the Constitution under the walls of Parliament and hundreds of National Guard heroes who died in the new Russian-Ukrainian war. Congratulations to our Guards! Glory to the National Guard of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Victory for us! And I would also like to report that another colleague of the national MP is joining us today. And I would like to report that on March 20, 2018, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of the Ukrainian National Deputies' elections on October 26, 14th, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, by the side of Mikhail Alexanderovich, who is included in the election list of the National Front political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zbočík Mikhailo Aleksandrovich, is invited. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine to defend all my actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u3	Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u4	Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, to take care of the country's welfare and well-being. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u5	Heroim Slava! Hello. So, colleagues, we're starting a meeting. I've been approached by a statement about a break from two factions: the Radical Party faction and Self-Help. And before I go to the first question of order of the day, I invite Oleg Lacha from two factions who are ready to replace the break from the rostrum. Please, three minutes. In the meantime, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow MPs! I want to tell you that today, Thursday and the Ukrainian Parliament, unfortunately, have not yet been able to make a decision to condemn the Russian President's election in the occupied Crimea. We believe that this is humiliating to the Ukrainian state and to Parliament. When we demand that all over the world condemn these elections, we ask for support throughout the world, instead, by the Ukrainian Parliament, because of the opposition, because of the political upheavals, we are unable to make an elementary decision. Five days after the election, we still haven't expressed our position. This reminds me of the situation in 2008, when the Ukrainian Parliament of that time failed to make a decision to condemn Russian aggression against Georgia. As a result, Russia’s boots are balling today’s Ukrainian land. If we want what right we have, the moral right first of all, to demand support from the world when we ourselves are unable to tell the truth when we ourselves are unable to make decisions that condemn the Russian elections in Crimea. So I demand that the factions of the coalition, which cannot find out among themselves the formulation of this decision so far, I appeal to the Head of Parliament, our faction: today to bring the draft decree to the attention and to vote. We think it's a humiliation of the Ukrainian Parliament, a demonstration of inability to make consolidating decisions to protect Ukrainian statehood and national interests. If we cannot make a decision in the Ukrainian Parliament and condemn the election of the Russian President in the occupied Ukrainian Crimea, we have no moral right to ask for support in the world because we ourselves are unable to make these decisions. And in general, I don't think it's fair and immoral for politicians who put their political interests at the forefront instead of saying the basics that it's black, and it's white, it's occupation, it's illegal choices, it's unfair, it's not fair. And you find out the relationship between yourself, and millions of Ukrainians look and wonder that it turns out that either you don’t care or you don’t have an elementary sense and a sense of responsibility. A number of countries in Europe and the world have failed to recognize and condemn elections. The Ukrainian Parliament, which should have done so first, has not yet done so. This shows the level of irresponsibility in this room, the level of irresponsibility of power and political elites. In 2014, our faction initiates recognition by Russia as an aggressor, the Foreign Ministry writes that they deny it, today they say they're ready. People are good, if you don't predict your nose any further, if you don't realize the consequences of your actions, why are you sitting in this Parliament? Why do you go to power? Why are you lying to the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u7	Thank you. I want to tell all the national deputies that before today's meeting I held a meeting with the heads of the coalition factions and with the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And it was our decision that the text of the statement that was prepared by the committee yesterday would be put to the vote and voted. So the text of the statement prepared by the committee will be signed by the members of the committee and I'm convinced it will be supported by all the factions in this room. The Ukrainian Parliament is responsible, the Ukrainian Parliament is determined in its decisions. And today the statement will be supported. So, colleagues, when we get into the agenda of the day session, we're going to include this. Now it's going to be distributed in the hall, and I'm sure today we're going to jointly support it with all the factions, and coalitions, and not coalitions. Thank you. So, colleagues, I'll tell you in a few words the logic of today. At the beginning, there's a question about the block that we planned in advance: the building block. Since the Regulatory Committee has only completed its work, it takes about 40 minutes or 1 hour to prepare documents to move on to the issue of lifting parliamentary immunity. During that period, we will be able to consider several issues of construction and ecology. As soon as the results of the rulings of the regulatory committee are distributed, I will immediately, by exercising my right, address the issue of the removal of inviolability. Then I'm going to propose that I support the inclusion of the KPC issue in the agenda. You remember, that's the one we couldn't get through last week. This is Bill 8151. Question 7555 is also about the distribution of committees and the reform of the Council. And the question of 8120 and 8120-1 is how long the e-declaration is for public activists. And I hope that we will be able to unite around those issues. They're listed in the agenda, and I'm sure all the factions have studied and were able to prepare for those issues. We also need to accept a number of ratifications today that are very important. And I, colleagues, have every request for you. After the first or second question, I'll suggest we cancel the break from 12:00 to 12:30. Colleagues, I'm going to ask all factions to support this idea. Because the Henprocuror's report is going to last longer than usual, and I'm asking everyone to support this idea. And now we move on to the first question of the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Inventory Fund of Ukraine (4551). It's a second reading, it doesn't need a special procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear presiding fellows! Paul Dziblik, 66th constituency, Zitomirščina. For your review, a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund (registration No. 4551). The aim of this draft Ukrainian law is to address the issue of the transfer of individual powers in the field of the natural-intelligence fund from the territorial authorities of the central executive authority in the field of environmental protection, which are eliminated, to the relevant authorities of the Autonomous Republic of the Area. Crime, of the Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the Natural-Command Fund (on powers in the field of environmental protection) received 28 proposals from entities of the law of the legislative initiative, of which 5 were rejected and 23 were taken into account and amended, which did not change the substance of the bill. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund (on environmental protection) (registration number 4551) as a result of the consideration to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law. We also request that the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be entrusted with the introduction of technical and legal rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that decisions are taken on issues that require legislative regulation, in addition to the cases defined in article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine on conduct in the fields of responsibility for which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular the Environmental Public Administration, Health, an experiment that does not exceed 2 years. The procedure for conducting the experiment is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we ask you to uphold the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u9	Colleagues, there's very little law in this bill, so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and we can go to the vote in literally five to seven minutes. We'll see how active the right-wing authors are, but there aren't many. This is a unified bill that unites the entire hall. I'm just asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm starting to call things that have been rejected. Anyone who wants to make an amendment for confirmation has to do so by raising his hand. So 1 line. Don't insist. 3 redundancies. Don't insist. 4 axles. He insists. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we talked to you in the first reading about the fact that it's impossible to transfer most of the powers to direct district government administrations that are going to do forest farming, there's a natural-invention fund, and so on. It seems to me that we're just translating all of this into organs that we can't control, and the central authority of executive power, it's not going to be able to lead the policy of, for example, forest conservation, reforestation there and so forth. So this is the law of authorization that we pass on, we decentralize, but it seems to me that it's a function of forest protection, that the function of forest farming itself should be state. And in that regard, we hand over all these powers to the district government, the appropriate authorities. Is all of this necessary in our situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u12	Do we need all of this in our situation when we haven't made a strategic decision on how the State Forest Agency will function, when we haven't separated the farm there and the control functions until we've done so that we're the only body responsible for the forests, and now we have 78 percent of the forests in the country? I mean those woods that are touching, those woods that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u13	Comment, Paul Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u14	Dear Vadim, dear colleagues, the bill is quite simple. We transmit, remember, there were once structural units of the Ministry of Ecology throughout Ukraine. After the destruction of structural units were created, departments of ecology that dealt with these environmental issues were created at each observatories, at a time when there were gaps and unaccounted for functions related to the management of the natural-command fund. What you're saying, Mr. Wadim, it doesn't apply to this bill, and I completely agree. But, well, I would still ask you to reject this amendment and accept the bill in the form recommended by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u15	Mr. Wadim, do you insist on voting? He doesn't insist on voting. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. There's just a few lines left. 25th, Yvchenka. Boris Ivanovich, I don't see the author. Don't insist. 26th, Neda. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. The committee did fine and good work. In fact, all the corrections are taken into account and we can move on to the decision-making process. I'm the only one asking you, colleagues, to invite all the deputies into the hall. I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall right now. Colleagues, take up jobs so that we don't put up a vote. Please come in from the towers in the hall. A simple bill, which is supported by everyone, is an environmental bill. I'm just asking everyone to come into the hall so we don't put them to the vote. Please. So please prepare your coworkers from the bed. I'm asking you very convincingly, but you won't be able to vote. Every voice matters to us now that we're going. Please. So I'm betting on the vote. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Nature and Command Fund of Ukraine (on Environmental Protection Powers) (No. 4551) to adopt, in a second reading and in general, an amendment that was announced by the head of the subcommittee Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovic, and with technical and legal rights in re-second reading and in general. 4551 in a second reading and in general with a readjustment. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote! [[10:23:46]] For 210 We didn't make it. We didn't make it. I'll be back. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you to show by factions. Please invite everyone into the hall. Block of Petra Poshenko – 78, National Front – 61, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Oleg Ljashka – 15, Father's Front – 0, Will of the People – 3, Restoration Party – 16. I ask you very much, my friends, to ask the deputies into the hall, for too long, to meet for half an hour. I'm asking everyone. I ask the minister one minute and ask everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, I beg you, I see what else we have. We just have to invite everyone into the hall. Please, Ostap, very briefly. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u16	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. First of all, I thank the deputies who support this law in their second reading. But actually, my comment is more about the faction of Fatherland. MP Yvchenko made a warning, they're not exactly like that. It's about what. In 2012, when administrative reform took place, part of the functions of the Ministry's territorial bodies were dependent on the air, they were not handed over to the local self-government authorities during decentralization and did not remain in the Ministry because we do not have such units. The point is that for several years this function has not been performed, it needs to be fixed and passed on to those authorities in areas that work in district administrations. Dear colleagues, if we don't solve it this way, the problem will actually continue to accumulate. Failure, non-voting in favour of this law makes it impossible to increase or work effectively to increase the facilities and territories of the natural and natural and conservation fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u17	Thank you. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please mobilize yourself at last. Today is an important, difficult day. Well, we didn't. Well, Sergei, we didn't. It's not in the Rules. He didn't hurt me. Okay. 30 seconds. Yvchenko. Come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u18	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we understand what's going on. What happens is they want to pass functions on to the district government. I'd like to remind you, they're cutting up the forest in Dnipropetrovska with the authority of the district government. The faith of Ulyanchenko, head of the last Kyiv district administration, handed over Sukhóciech Yanukovic. The land is handed over under the cottage gardens by one person. We're for the central executive body.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u19	Thank you. We heard your opinion. Give me 30 seconds. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u20	We are for the central executive authority to have a complete structure, subordination to the Ministry of Ecology and, accordingly, the responsibility of the Ministry of Ecology for the conservation of the natural forest fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u21	Thank you. So, colleagues, we vote. Please come into the hall. Vote. First the return, then the vote. Let us now have ecological issues, unite around them. So I'm going to be the first to vote on the proposal to go back to draft Law 4551. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, I ask very carefully to take part in the vote. And the first proposal is to go back to the draft Law on the Natural Reserve Fund of Ukraine 4551. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's go back, fellows. Careful! Every voice. Stand back and take part in the decision - making process. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[10:28:09]] For 233 So we're back. Now I'm putting a draft of Law 4551, in a second reading and in general, with an amendment announced by Djublik Pavel Volodymyrovich, in a second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, carefully every vote, we vote carefully, we vote in favour. Please support, we vote. [[10:28:41]] For 227 The law is passed. Welcome to the minister for his troubles. The next draft of the Act (this is also second reading) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the extension of the period of acceptance into operation of buildings built without the permission of construction works (3696). It's a second reading. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Mr. Dmitri, we've finally reached your law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is very simple, but in the meantime a very important bill (3696). I want to say without exaggeration that tens of thousands of people today are waiting for us to vote on this law, which is already in the nation's title "Built Amnesty," will allow people who, without waiting for the help of the state, have taken responsibility and have built such a residence. I want to say that as a result of the drafting of the bill and the reconciliation of all the issues raised by the MPs, it is proposed that citizens be allowed to complete the procedure for the implementation of built buildings, which were built from 5 August 1992 to 9 April 2015. These are individual dwellings, gardens, househouses, farm buildings, and a total area of up to 300 square feet [300 sq m]. Also built by March 12, 2011, the construction and construction of a rural assignment, which by the result class belongs to the SS1 category. So it's not a significant effect, it's a small building. Dear friends, I want to explain that, in fact, today's revolutionary changes to legislation that improves the work of the building industry, we have already given people the opportunity to build such buildings without permission. And we're actually those categories of citizens that, before the introduction of new legislation, have done this kind of building, we're able to form these buildings. These buildings were built on earth with the proper purpose, and the ownership of the earth must be properly approved. Dear colleagues, before the bill we received 11 suggestions and rights, two of them included, so please support this bill, accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Colleagues, law enforcement is a little bit too, so don't split up, I'll read the right-wing authors. Two o'clock, Capplin. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Do Not Urge 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Do Not Urge 8th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've been through all the revisions. What's that? All right, one right, Yvchenka. Seven, we've passed it. But please, Mr. Wadim. One minute to Ichchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u24	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that the so-called building amnesty was offered in 2009 by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. What happened after that? After that, nearly 11 million square feet [11 million sq m] of housing was put into service, about 30 percent of the housing. That's a big deal. The introduction significantly reduces the number of documents and documents to be presented to the applicant. We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. But what I want to say to his committee head is that there are so-called little architectural forms in villages and villages -- these are the value points, these are the shelters, some shelters, they definitely don't fall within the 300 square meters category, and other agricultural buildings that also have to be amnesty. We realize that most of these buildings are in rural and rural areas. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u26	Please take a separate look at the rural areas and the construction that took place there so that we can offer the village an amnesty for the farmers, including the small ones. It's a pretty good situation when we put all these objects into things and they can use it directly, especially to get credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u27	Will you comment, Dmitri?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u28	Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u29	No, it's not. Do you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Then we have another right now, colleagues. And after one amendment, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I now give the floor for the fourth amendment to the MP of the Codex. Please turn on the microphone. And in two minutes, the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u30	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. Dear colleagues, as co-author of this bill, I would like to point out that thousands of our fellow countrymen are waiting for this law to be passed throughout Ukraine. We have hundreds of letters of petitions and petitions to our profile committee to give us the opportunity to legitimize private fences. Because this law, the bill, it's about private buildings. And so I urge the entire room to mobilize and support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u31	Colleagues, this is the last correction. So let's go to the vote. We've got our first day of special treatment, we've got special equipment. If anyone gets uncomfortable while going to the hall, I apologize. It's the first day, public for everyone, if anyone gets any inconvenience. And I'm sure we can work this system out and there won't be any problems. So now, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko, one minute. And please come into the hall. One minute, Toothpick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Law 3696. It's very important for us to start the process and give it to those people who already have houses, to get them into use. A great deal of work has been done by the committee, and today I would like to unite the entire room in voting for this bill. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u33	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, take up jobs. Especially the coworkers from the bed, if you're supportive. Colleagues in bed! Andrew, very much. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the extension of the period of acceptance into operation of construction objects built without the permission to do construction work (No. 3696) in a second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Come into the hall, colleagues. Please support, we vote. Vote, please. [[10:37:28]] For 276 The law is passed. We welcome the developers and the committee for active work and agreement. Next. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the area of construction (7085). This is the first reading, and so I ask for your support, please support for the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[10:38:11]] For-183 And I invite you to the report of the first deputy chairman of the committee of Andriev Dmitry Josephovich. Mr. Dmitri, please. And, colleagues, pay attention! It takes another 25 minutes to prepare the documents. Listen to me carefully, if it's your will, after this law, we can vote on the changes to KPC. If there's a general will of factions, we can vote after this law change to KPC, a draft law prepared by the committee. So look inside the factions, I'm going to propose this after this law. And now the report is by Andriev Dmitry Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The second law that the committee is proposing to date is also a law that, I'm sure, will unite the hall is Law 7085. It introduces a series of technical rights, including legislation that we have already adopted, eliminates differences, and refines in specific provisions of the Energy Efficiency Fund Act. We know that this fund should allow more than 1 billion 600 million dollars of extra money to support Ukrainian citizens who will make saving energy efficient to their homes. The purpose of this law is to give additional authority and to remove differences in the address given to local authorities. The transfer of control functions and implementation of measures to ensure their safety during the operation by an executive body in rural, rural, urban councils. This is fully in line with the global decentralization movement, providing additional opportunities for local self-government. Normative legal settlement of issues related to the licensing of economic activity in the construction of objects according to the impact class, which belongs to objects with medium and significant impact classes. The problem of conducting self-regulatory self-regulatory attestation is not resolved, particularly by refusing professional attestation on the grounds of refusing to join a self-regulatory organization. That is, if a person is not part of such an organization, there is no reason to refuse such a person properly and in professional attestation. I would like to take into account the committee's decision to take the basis for the Committee's additions to the text of the proposed project. Paragraph 6 should be supplemented by paragraph 1-1. I'd like to add 30 seconds, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u35	Please add 30 seconds immediately. And listen carefully, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u36	Article 32. In the first part of the fifth paragraph, after the words "all objects", add the words "according to building standards, standards, normative documents and rules approved in accordance with legislation". To complement part nine of this content. "For the understatement of the effect class (responsibility), the project organization and the client are responsible according to the legislation." Unfortunately, we already have examples of the understatement of such a class of consequences, so the responsibility of project and expert organizations is more clearly expressed. Note by the national deputy Babak regarding the exercise of the building advertising authority to be taken into account in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u37	So, colleagues, let's go over the bill. Please record: two for, two for, please. Sergey, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u38	Mr. Head, please pass the word to colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u39	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in this bill, it seems to me to be a waste, for example, of a superfiche contract, because superficies are a kind of right to use a foreign land. And in fact, you're allowing someone else's land to register their property rights. That's the first one. The other one. You are severely restricting the organs of local self - government. They're supposed to assign legal addresses. There are instances where the builders fail to comply with appropriate arrangements or contracts and you are actually limiting the influence of local self - government authorities on assigning a postal address. In this law, what does special work mean? You want to license special jobs, but you don't tell me which ones. What does that mean, high - altitude jobs, underground jobs, or anything else? You're going to enter a separate license on this issue. And also the inexplicable question of cancelling or stopping the license. This law should provide for cases of specific cancellations of the licence and specific cases of suspension and termination of the licence. If these observations are taken into account, the bill can be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Next word, next statement from the People's Front. Please, Mr. Andreyevsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u41	Mr. Wadim, I want to answer. So let me answer those questions. The first position we have is just now the first reading. My self-help colleagues and I have also discussed a number of issues that concern assigning addresses. The strategic objective of this bill is to give the best possible opportunity to the local authorities. If there is a violation of the legislation, permission will not be granted. Next. In a foreign land. That's another piece of legislation again. If we have to make changes in construction, what you're saying is that after building on a foreign land, we can remove it. By license. It's separate legislation. Again, we provide additional opportunities to do all these permits at the level of local self - government authorities and to give them maximum authority. Once again, I would like to emphasize that all of these powers and observations can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading in full. We discussed this with both you and your self-help colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mr. Andriyewski, I ask you to sit down. We do not have any questions in our first reading, and we follow a simplified procedure. We have no questions now to the author and to the committee representative. So I'm asking you not to frame me for breaking the rules, because then you'll be the first to consider breaking the rules. And I apologize for breaking the rules. Dear colleagues! Now, a word for the speech is given to Mr. Alexei to interpret the position of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u44	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. Dear colleagues! This is an important bill from our professional Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, which deals with construction and urban activities. And the main purpose of this bill is to extend the powers of local self-government authorities, local government administrations in the area of construction. That is, the authority of the local authorities will be the very exercise of control over the buildings that have been put into service. Please support and vote as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u45	Thank you for expressing the faction's position. Please, Natalia Novak from Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the MP from the WFP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u47	Please, Mr. Melnik's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In general, by supporting the bill, I would like to make a few warnings in this bill. First of all, I don't think there's a secret about how objects are being accepted today, like the Derjarhbudinspection gives a declaration for the beginning of work and how an object is being accepted when an inspection makes a declaration for acceptance into operation. This is a question we're leaving out, but further control of the operation we're handing over to the executives of local self-government. We know today a lot of problems where two, let's say, schemes, these are property rights and housing cooperatives, and for a few years there are buildings where there's no food, no water supply, that's the house. Next. What also causes anxiety? These are some of the things related to Law 7084, and we're introducing a new term for "future objects." And in this law, we offer unfinished construction or future objects to assign addresses, and I think it's also a novelty. Because we used to assign the address when the object was ready and for what needed to be registered. You know, I think these two objects, these two projects, we're going back to the '90s. We're introducing a new concept of "consignor" when it can be passed on. I believe that we have worked for many years to pay for the land to be properly formed. If he does not pay at least a land lease, even if the land is not paid because there is a change in real estate. And another question is that there's no list of objects that can't be built at all without project documentation. I believe that there should be a comprehensive list of objects that can be built without project documentation. So I think that the profile committee should work on these things for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u49	Thank you very much, colleagues, all of you. Oh, not since Fatherland, Kugel Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! I'm calling Mr. Zubko. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I am addressing you! Laws that give rise to violations of European standards cannot be allowed. For everything that concerns licensing, it should only be in the Licensing Act. Everything else is regulated by the internal documents of the Cabinet of Ministers, and please do not dispute the law. If you want to simplify and make deregulation an acceptable object so that there is no corruption of local administrations, please, we are prepared to support the bill in this part. Everything else is from the wicked one, and in that way it cannot be accepted in the first reading, you are violating European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u51	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'll give you a minute. Now Rosenblatt from the Peter Dust Block. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, a very good bill, especially in matters of deregulation of urban legislation and building legislation in general. But what I want to point out is that, in fact, in the law, the question of the responsibility of officials who are going to make decisions is very intense. Plus, there's a simplified licensing system that works for a lot of companies today that take part in tender procedures. You know that a lot of effective firms have been created today to participate in tender procedures and then to win tenders that will not then be executed. So for me, the very important question is -- this is the responsibility of those officials who will take part, I repeat, in making decisions. Plus, there's a question of energy efficiency. But we've forgotten a bill that allows us, people with limited capabilities, people with disabilities to participate in our nation's life. We recently adopted a bill in the first reading, which strengthened the responsibility of people who did not take into account the needs of our citizens. So I think all of these adjustments that are going to be ready for the second reading should be very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u53	Colleagues, and the closing statement is the Deputy Prime Minister. And one minute to vote. I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Don't come out, come into the hall. Gennady Zubko, one minute. And we vote, come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that when we talk about the development of local self-government, when we talk about the transfer of powers, when we talk about the deregulation that is holding back development today, we say that we need to take decisive steps. And today we're only looking at the first reading, the questions that came up from the point of view of a settlement between first and second reading, in order to clearly divide the possibilities of local administrations and local self-government. We will certainly consider the preparation of the law for the second reading. But we would like to simplify not only the possibilities of local self-government, but also the business that should work faster and more actively. So we also introduce the ability to quickly identify objects, enter a postal address so that everyone can quickly figure out after the master plan has been approved, how to move in a particular populated area, and how someone is responsible. Thus, once again, all authorities of local self - government are in the process of exercising control of order today. Today, construction works are hampered by real, modern construction as well as the possibility of testing buildings. Because you know how many objects are being threatened today because they are not being examined with the constructive elements of the objects. So once again, I call on the people's deputies, please take the first step, let's vote in the first reading. The law is very important for deregulation of practical introduction, but in both cases, make sure that there is a situation that is both controlled and orderly in running this business. I am grateful here, especially to our committee of profile, which I have worked on, which this bill has put forward. And we support it, and we're ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u55	Thank you very much. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to get ready. Ready? Take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the area of construction (No.7085). Committee proposal: to be based on the Committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u56	On the ground, yes. [[10:54:31]] For 249 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, pay attention! As I have promised, I propose to put forward for consideration a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to clarify certain provisions. I was told by the committee that there is a complete situation in the room that is united and equipped. Bill 8151. So now we're going to see it. I propose that we now include this bill in the agenda for consideration. If, indeed, there is full support for the hall, we can finally resolve this dilemma, colleagues. Everyone's oriented, everybody knows. So I'm voting on the proposal that we now include in the agenda and consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify certain provisions (8151). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful! Every voice matters. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[10:55:50]] For 218. Six votes. I'll do it again. Take up jobs. Take up jobs! [[B in m in s a l in]] Careful. I've seen it. But please approach the room, not after the vote, but before the vote. So take up jobs. I'm asking you not to distract the deputies, the government! Please be prepared. I would like to re-vote the proposal that we have now considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code (8151) and put it into the agenda and are now under consideration. Please vote and please support everyone carefully, please. Every voice matters. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's back it up. [[10:56:48]] For 245 245, thanks for understanding. Let's get to it. I'm asking you to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. 8151 - abbreviated. [[10:57:10]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Captain Olen Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u57	I thank all my colleagues for understanding that we have included this important bill in the agenda. In fact, today, despite the fact that only a week of changes are in place in the field, a number of very serious challenges have already accumulated for our investigators. Because going two hundred and thirty kilometers to get the paperwork, then coming back to get permission to follow up, it's actually now blocked the entire law enforcement and investigation. So I believe that this hall is now able to unite in order to solve at least this problem. I understand that no one has great sympathy for the law enforcement agencies, and it's hard for me to blame myself for being a fan of law enforcement, but we can't allow a complete collapse of the investigation. In fact, the investigation is now blocked. This means that investigating theft, robbery, rape, and other crimes involving citizens is now impossible. From the point of view of statehood, it is very important for society to provide the optimal opportunity and enable investigators to work where they play a key role. So please, we're not going to mention the past here, now it's about the future. I ask all MPs to unite, vote and resolve at least the problem that is facing the investigation today is the problem of territorial subordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u58	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, King Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u59	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable fellow national MPs, you heard one of the co-authors of the bill. And I'm bringing to your attention that the Law Enforcement Committee has considered this bill under the Rules and recommended that I report to you on the substance of the problem. The issue is that the Supreme Council adopted a bill the day before, which complicated the work of judicial and law enforcement agencies. The essence of the project is that the MPs in the bill, without such detailed information, voted that the judicial investigation should address the purpose of ensuring their activities to the authorities registered in our national legislation, that is, the police and the courts departments located in the district centres. I mean, just to the offices and the principal offices. Only because of them. But our daily activities, the law enforcement system, are built in such a way that 99 percent of them are police units, they're units of other law enforcement agencies that aren't registered as a legal person in the center. And that's why a certain imbalance has been created between the law enforcement and the judicial system. I'm not saying that there was a collapse that was said to have occurred, but in order not to create any additional fundamentally irrelevant obstacles, the Supreme Council should consider this bill. The bill is written by Mrs. Sotnik, who reported, Heratchenko, Ostrkova and Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u60	Give me a minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u61	We have to go with you, we just have to make changes to three articles of the KPC. This is the article of the Code, the CPC, article 132, 184, and 234, the following. I want to read under the transcript, "By analyzing it. The Supreme Council will accept the bill in the first and in general. At the same time it is necessary to introduce appropriate legal remedies, namely: after the word "local" add the words "general." This is a court of law. In the paragraph, further, in the entry "The End of Positions" also after the word "the Wests" complete the word "sustainment of measures." These three novels, these three revisions, they're just going to put the law enforcement system and the judicial system back on track, and they're going to have control of their activities. There's nothing there, anything other than what I read to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u62	Can I give you some time, dear colleague? Yeah? Please. I heard. 30 seconds to go. Please add another 30 seconds to the King. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u63	I am asked to explain the situation here. That there was a collapse, and it was all about the funeral and everything else. I took care of it, and the members of the committee came to their senses. The burial from the existence of appropriate expertise was only for the corpses of criminal conduct. And by no means, listen, those people who died in hospitals, died, died of natural causes. And, more than that, the committee singled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u64	I've got the position. So, Mr. King points out that the norm that was discussed here applied only to criminal deaths, that is, the deaths of those who died as a result of crime, not to the deaths that resulted from the course of things naturally. Dear colleagues. Yes, natural causes. Dear Mr. King, I ask you to return to your seat, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this important bill. Please, Mustafa Najem. From where? Please. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, this bill only partially corrects those mistakes that we made when we adopted amendments to the Procedural Code. The point is, really, now the investigators have to go 100 to 200 kilometers to get permission to do the expertise. I hope that this is just the first step, and we will in the future amend the Procedural Code in such a way that all crimes relating to fraud, state property, corruption, smuggling will also be removed from the scope of this law. Moreover, I hope that we will accept the changes, and I think we will introduce such a bill, which will allow us to draw up, including the Maydan cases, because there are now suspicions that lawyers, including Viktor Yanukovich and other people who were involved in the Maydan killings, are filing and preparing for the courts to cancel or stop their conduct. I hope that's the first step, that we really need to do it today, vote and forget this story.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Oleg! Mr. Liege! Mr. Oleg, we're discussing a bill, and now you have a chance not just to exchange your thoughts, but to speak from your faction to take the floor. Please don't interrupt each other. Please invite Mr. Lášk to present his position as leader of the Radical Party faction on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. First. I hope that all those who lied to the Ukrainians about funeral complications will find within themselves the courage and rod inside. to apologize to the people, because for a week they joked, smiled, suppressed, told them that it would not be possible to bury people. Where are you today, all these liars? What you're not going to do is not say that you've been lying to people by following the political orders of our discredit. In particular, my address concerns the mayor of Lvov Andrija Sadov and the running oligarch of Igor Kolomoysky, whose channels "1+1" and "24" were most likely to lie about a sort of funeral collapse. I understand that since I stole $6 billion from private bank investors, there's nothing left to do but lie to Ukrainians. So instead of lying, Colomoysky, I'm talking to you, Igor Valeriyovich, and to your partner Bogolovov, give back the $6 billion you stole from the private investors that you stole from the Ukrainians because the money was stolen, and the law enforcement made a deal. Because everyone's afraid they won't show it. There is no investigation. The Court of London is investigating the theft of money. No Ukrainian court is investigating because they fear oligarchs because they are dependent. We're not afraid of them. And we're demanding a report from the law enforcement agencies that they're doing to make $6 billion stolen from private investors, 20 million of Ukrainians, so that the money is returned to Ukraine. To serve as Ukrainians for the purpose of paying people’s wages and pensions, not to enrich the oligarchs who fled and now abuse the Ukrainians. Finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u68	30 seconds to complete. About the bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u69	About Andrew Lozov's work. Back in America, Jackson Weinick’s work was so well - known. Now, Lozov's right is that right that protects Ukrainians from corruption and law enforcement. Because everyone here is protecting the law enforcement. And we're protecting Ukrainians who are suffering from the abuse of law enforcement, from corrupt law enforcement. Orders that break when people are held in prison for years without a court sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the next word is given to the representative of the opposition bloc of the faction of Mr. Dudenkov. Please, your faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u71	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues! My speech won't be that emotional. What's the bill on? This bill is aimed at facilitating the work of law enforcement agencies that would use means of coercion against Ukrainian citizens. That's arrest, arrest, custody. So this bill is a powerful testimony to what our colleagues are most concerned about. They are concerned that the work of the law enforcement system will be blocked. To some extent, it might be. So it's going to be more difficult to keep, keep under guard, and apply other precautions, in criminal conduct. Why are you not concerned about the problem of conducting expert studies? There were some who were talking about lies, some who were talking about forensics. And we communicate directly with people who have already faced the said problem when a person's death is not violent, in fact, there is no need for an expert. When a person was sick for a long time, he was in a hospital, and he died, for God's sake, no expertise was needed, and if a person went down the street and fell through a heart attack, because of any disease, he needed an expert. You don't have to blame anyone for lying, because you don't know the subject, the question. What, then, do you fear, narrow down the independence of the investigators, and fear conducting forensics outside the court? And maybe because there are structures, like the NAB, that need to be controlled through an expert mechanism. You're very afraid that they're going to be conducting experiments on their own outside the judge's decision and you're confusing the death of citizens here, but there really is a problem. And the opposition block faction is trying to attach the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u72	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u73	To add the issue of expertise, even with deadly consequences, I am no longer talking about court-economic expertise, which you fear more than anything else, to this bill, then we will vote. And you're actually solving your questions, your problems of unlocking the power block of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Fatherland faction of Igor Lucenko, I invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, of course, will vote in favour of this bill. But what is happening now? Parliament is trying to correct its own mistake. Colleagues, can there be enough votes like the herd to unwittingly support all the innovations that have come up with their own time, not even today's Bank, but the invention of Portnov Yanukovich, these manipulations with the Criminal Procedure Code? Maybe it's enough to push the buttons thoughtlessly, so you don't have to correct the pump now, so these are all mistakes? We, the Fatherland faction, made the amendments, warned from the rostrum. Okay, well, you don't want to listen to us, so listen to the experts, listen to the law enforcement. Listen to the science department, everyone warned you. No, the buttons were pressed, and now the investigators are just sewing up hundreds of miles to get some paper. That is why there are enough votes. And let's understand that unfortunately, Parliament is now playing a negative role in the law enforcement system. The Maydan investigation is halted by such changes in legislation. We don't have any investigations right now because they're pushing this button. So, unfortunately, there is no help in investigating Maidan, investigating resonant crimes, or anything like that. Let's stop putting in place the port ideologies that run the judges, run all the lawyers and complex procedural procedures. Right now, law enforcement is openly coming to my subcommittee and saying, "Don't let God get us into criminal conduct." There's nothing we can do about it. These law enforcement officials say that as a result of such money, the law enforcement system is not capable of doing anything in Ukraine. So we're really voting for this bill, and let's take this lesson for ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front faction, Anton Gerashchenko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u77	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! This small but very important law corrects those mistakes made by the Supreme Council on October 3, last year, when they voted in favour of procedural codes. On March 16, police and prosecutors from all towns and districts of Ukraine were required to travel to the central district centers to the courts. For example, 24 circuits of the Kyiv region now go to the Shevchenkow Court of Kiev, and ten circuit courts of the city of Kyiv also go to the city of Kyiv. From the city of Ishmael of Odessa, an investigator and prosecutor are required to deliver the person arrested and to resolve the issue of his arrest or the measure of precaution to which he is to be taken within 250 km of not the very best roads. We must now correct this error and vote on the basis of this law as a whole. There are only a few paragraphs: we return the opportunity to district police stations and prosecutors to make a procedural decision in the district courts rather than to take the detainees and not to get another decision in the district courts. Thank you for your support in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u78	Thank you, Sir Anton. From the Self-Help faction, please, Oleg Berezuk will express the faction's position on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u79	At least that kind of emotion is surprising. Emotion into a very simple matter, perhaps it is the result that someone has misled a person who is usually balanced. The point is that this bill and the mistakes that allowed the public and people there to see the real depth of this process, in this law they wanted to cover up the tools that would allow criminal cases against oligarhat to be closed and, more than that, to block the activities of the NABU, and the cases with those funerals just allowed us to look at it deeper. Therefore, today’s bill needs to be voted on to continue the work of NABU and to keep people from taking responsibility for those who have robbed and looted the Ukrainian state for the past 15 years. Thank you for supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u80	Please, from Rebirth Group Anton Yatzenko. Anton Yatzenko, from Rebirth Group, are you recording your request to act under this law? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, everyone who wishes has already exchanged their thoughts, right? I ask you to return to the session room, and there will be a vote in just a minute. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in a minute we are going to vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to clarify certain provisions, under the authority of Mrs. Stotnik's National MP, who we thank for preparing this bill, as well as other colleagues who have joined in this work. I beg you, we've exchanged thoughts, and we see that there is an agreed position of factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill. And that's why I'm asking you to go back to work for a few. A vote will take place in a minute. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a reputable speaker entering the session room. He wanted to join, he also had to join the vote. And that's why I'm asking you to wait for 20 seconds. Thank you very much. Thank you for understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u81	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify certain provisions (No.8151) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall with technical legal rights. Colleagues, please vote, please support 8151 as a whole. Vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:19:18]] For 256 The law is passed. Welcome to both the committee and the developers with the law! My colleagues, I would like to inform you that it takes about 10 minutes to print all the documents on the regulatory committee's decision. And I'm asking you to back me up now. We have a draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (0163) following the removal of the inviolability. I'd like to ask you, while we wait for the committee's decision, to support us to move forward and take a look at it. Is it supported? Is everyone oriented? This is the next one. All the factions have studied, they see. Next up, colleagues. So I'm going to put a motion on the vote right now for us to move forward and consider ratification 0163 as we multiply the materials of the Regulatory Committee. So we don't waste any time here. Please, colleagues, support and please vote in favour of the ratification review. [[B in m in s a l in]] She's next, 0163. She's next. So let me vote. Please be supportive. Who wants us to consider this ratification now? Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:20:52]] For 211 Next ratification of the Ratification Act of the Letter of Amendment No. 2 to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0177). Who would like us to now consider this ratification, which is due to two questions, please vote. Please be supportive. Is that what you support? You'll support it. This Regulation shall enter This is the next ratification. You'll support it. Please be supportive. Who's to say we're looking at this ratification right now? So we don't lose our time. Please vote. Please be supportive. This Regulation shall enter Who's to say we're looking at it right now? Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:21:44]] For 259. We are now considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 2 to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No. 0177). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The committee decided and approved Parliament's decision to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. The word from Fatherland is Kugel Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u84	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, we're talking right now, we're definitely going to vote in favour of ratifying such an agreement. And I would like the government more and the President to make such agreements where it's predicted that there's long-term credit for small and medium-sized business development. But I want to draw the attention of the Ministry of Finance and all the control bodies. Please control, because these state banks are then transferring to commercial banks, and the value of the loan is already increasing so that it's not comfortable compared to the conditions that European institutions are granting. I very much ask that we have the opportunity through the House of Accounts to have information on how to use these funds after this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u85	Thank you very much. From the People's Front, Grandmaster Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u86	The People's Front will vote in favour of ratification and we urge our colleagues to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u87	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. I ask everyone to take up jobs, we move on to making decisions. Please enter the hall, take your seats. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement. on the ratification of the Letter of Amendment 2 to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No. 0177) as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support the ratification, this is our international commitment, they unite the entire hall. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:25:20]] For 265 Ratification accepted. Next 0178. It's a sequel, it's a change, it's a draft ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement. Same subject, just the next letter. I'm asking you to support us to take a look at it now. It stands next, all familiar with it, the positions of factions are known. Please support us now to consider the draft Law on Ratification (0178), which is a continuation of the previous ratification. Please vote, please support. Vote, support, colleagues, support. [[11:26:03]] For 253 Decision taken. And I'm asking you now to support the review of the reduced procedure, please. Short cut. [[11:26:23]] For 213 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee, Anna Hopko Mikolayevna, to report. Please take your seat, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u88	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Given today's busy schedule, I will simply briefly inform you that the Committee's decision of 13 March this year to support the draft Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 2 to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Project "Construction of the 750 kV Airline Zaporozka AES-Kahovska"). That's why I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Nasalika Igor Stepanovich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement (the project to build a high-voltage air line of the seventy - fiftyth Ravenska - Kyivska) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank is being introduced. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to carry out an internal procedure to give consent to the obligation of the aforementioned Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank and to enter into force. The letter of amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement was signed by the Ukrainian side on 24 October 2017. What would I have said separately under this agreement? The financing of the agreement (Rivnenska Kyivska) not only allowed us to unload the Revenska and Hmelnicka atomic stations, but to add an additional 750 thousand megawatts to the Kiev node, which allowed us to unload the Tripoli TEZ and not exploit it on coal. The project was completed last year and works successfully. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u91	Thank you very much. Please record: two for, two for, please. Sergey Eutuszek of the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u92	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. I will also say right away that the faction will support this ratification project, which aims to ensure the continued use of funds for the implementation of the high-voltage air line project, the seventy-seventy, as the reporter said, the head of the committee, and the minister, the Raven Kiev. I'll say the total cost of the project is 300 million. We're going to get a loan of 150 million. So let's, dear colleagues, support this ratification and unload our networks, including the Kyiv region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. From Peter Poshenko's Block to the word, please, Dmitri Andryewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, to what I have already said, I would like to add only that thanks to the effective work of the Ukrenergo team, our energy shareholder company, which was organized by the Ministry in charge of our colleague, Igor Nasalik, managed to save 50 million euros. And these savings will be aimed at reconstruction, which is very important for the energy supply of the Kiev power node. I'm sure it's something we need to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u95	Thank you very much, colleagues. So the discussion is over. They all did, didn't they? Please, from the Radical Party for two minutes, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Minister of Energy Igor Nasalik. I've already spoken to you about this several times, unfortunately, there's no result. Yesterday, I was in Chernigovishka, in my hometown, and I was approached by the employees of the Smolin Torfobret factory, which is now in danger of being shut down. This is because a successful enterprise, where more than a hundred people work, is functioning normally. But someone wants to take on a successful business, tries to bankrupt, 100 people and their families lose their jobs, lose their income, and lose their families. I, Mr. Igor, have spoken to you twice to solve this problem, to enable a successful business to work. Sadly, the problem is not solved. You come to us every Friday, hang your paw on your ears as you fight for Ukraine’s energy independence. In fact, everything you're saying doesn't match the reality, because as a result of your lack of energy policy, we took 16 million tons of coal to Ukraine last year, we paid more than $3 billion for imported coal, and you can't find money for building coal mines in Volina, for an investment program for Redgrove merger and for other domestic businesses. As a result of your policy, Ukrainian miners are unemployed, unable to feed their families, and you pay billions of dollars for coal imports, providing jobs for foreign miners. Instead of supporting peacocks, pellets, solar energy, wind power, you're running a policy that makes us more dependent on imported supplies that threaten Ukraine's national security. I'm talking to you: either you solve these problems and we'll really protect people's jobs, or we'll demand your resignation. The counter is on for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u97	So the discussion is over. From "The Will of the People" Shahov. One minute, okay? One minute. And in one minute a decision will be made. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u98	Honorable colleagues, a respected chairman, were practically without bread in Luhansk. Mr. Secretary, "The will of the people" will support this draft Ratification Order because it is necessary. But you need to turn to the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and you need to develop a coal industry in our country. I got a letter from you saying that, clearly, we are moving coal from the Russian Federation today, when in our country 70,000 people are sitting without a job and going to work for Peter, Moscow and other states. Please return the miners to our country and allow us to develop our country, our coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u99	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. In addition, before the vote, I would like to inform you that there are already distributions in the room, and most deputies already have an application. So we're going to be able to go over the issue of immunity after this ratification. But I will have a request to all the national deputies. In view of the fact that the Henprosecutors are asking for more time to show the film to shorten the break, they're taking a break from 12:00 to 12:30. After the vote, I'll only propose it so that we can see the film. I think everyone will agree that everyone will support me so we can take a break from 12:00 to 12:30 after this vote. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Letter of Amendment No. 3 to the Financial Agreement (the project of building a high-volt air line between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0178) on the proposal of a committee based on and in general. Please vote and please support. Careful, colleagues, we're voting. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[11:35:00]] For 277 Ratification accepted. Now, be careful, colleagues. I'm putting a motion on the vote to cancel today's break from 12:00 to 12:30 in view of the fact that the Attorney General's Office is asking for more time to present evidence. I'd like to support you. Hold on, it's the right position to have more time. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, come out of the hall as you please. Please support cancelling the break. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Support me. That's the right thing to do. Please vote. [[11:35:44]] For 215 So I'm betting again, not everyone's getting their bearings. Colleagues, that's right, we have a positive agenda, we have a transfer of declarations to public officials, we have a reform of parliament. Back me up, my friends! So I'm betting again so we can cancel the break 12:00-12:30. Anyone who supports this proposal, please support me, please vote. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:36:26]] For 222 Four votes. This is the last time I'm going to put a third. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know. I'll put the last third time. Colleagues, pay attention! Take up jobs. I'll explain the logic again. The Attorney General's office is asking for more time to report. Four votes missing. Let's mobilize. I'm asking everyone, People's Front, Self-Help, Radical Party, Fatherland, let's mobilize. Please support the offer to cancel the break 12:00-12:30. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Careful. Every voice. You see, we're short a few votes. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote unanimously. Careful! [[11:37:29]] For 234 Decision taken. So the break is cancelled. And we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda on consenting to criminal liability, arrest and arrest of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Savchenko. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of Ukraine's national deputy. On March 15th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the application of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, to grant consent to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of the national deputy, Savchenko Nada Viktorovna. The Ukrainian Security Service is responsible for a pre-trial investigation and the Office of the Attorney General of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine is responsible for a procedural investigation, criminal conduct, and criminal offences, which are covered by a series of articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As evidenced by the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine, it has been established that, since November 2017, Savechenko Nadija Viktorovna has committed a number of serious and particularly serious crimes against the fundamentals of national security of Ukraine and against public security. In accordance with the requirements of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 22 March, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, reviewed the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nadja Viktorovna. The findings of the committee and the reported submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were given to you in paper copies. And as promised, my position is always unchanged: as soon as there is a committee decision, I will immediately take any submission for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, I have all the legal grounds for that, and so I'm announcing a transition to this question. Ladies and gentlemen, the next rule is proposed. The Attorney General's office is up to 40 minutes away, including video material that will be displayed. A word to explain to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nada Viktorovni, within 15 minutes. The word to announce the committee's conclusion is up to five minutes, statements from factions and groups, all factions and groups, up to 24 minutes, speeches from the national MPs, up to nine minutes, closing statement from the committee head, three minutes, Saucenko, up to three minutes, Attorney General, up to three minutes. Is it accepted as provided by the Rules? And the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, for the report, for the demonstration of the film, and for the answers to questions from members of the MP factions and groups. Welcome to Yuri Vitaliovich's word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Today’s hearing in the Supreme Council about the issue of criminal liability is a special one. In fact, because of the specificities of the Ukrainian Constitution and legislation, any national MP who is rightly suspected of committing an offence has two protective procedures: the decision of the committee and then Parliament. Moreover, the law allows such a national deputy to receive five days to prepare his reply, to 20 days to be considered on the committee and to seven days in the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, this order never changed, and so for Hope Savechenko added another, third bonus: seven days the whole country listened to her position from all possible country talk shows. In fact, there was a brainwashing of the country, which convinced us that the destruction of the constitutional system in our country was a good thing, not a shameful act. So now I'm standing in front of you to give you the facts that, by the way, Hope Savechenko confirmed on the profile committee about her actions. Thus, in 2017 Ruban and the national deputy Saucenko conspired with the aim of violent overthrow of the constitutional system and the capture of state power in Ukraine. To this end, they planned a large - scale terrorist attack on the center of the Ukrainian capital, where they concentrated both administrative and large residences. In order to obtain the necessary weapons for such an attack, namely heavy 120-millimeter mortars, firearms, sniper rifles, grenades, Ruban and Savechenko at an undetermined time, but no later than November 2017, they reached an agreement with the leaders of a terrorist organization called the DNR on the supply of such weapons. During the summer and autumn of 2017, Ruban and Savichenko were looking for accomplices and perpetrators of the terrorist act they planned. Savechenko personally appealed to officers of various parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to participate in the planned terrorist act and to overthrow Ukraine’s constitutional system. In the summer of 2017, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko, made such an offer to the officers of the 8 regiments of a special assignment located in Hmelnitsk, namely, Officer March, Zacharychenkova, Lešća and Kota. I would like to stress separately the high moral spirit of the Ukrainian army, which, after listening to this proposal, and after receiving specific money from Ruban for the purchase of a cargo van that is to bring weapons from DNR territory, immediately reported it to the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ukrainian Security Service carried out the necessary investigation, obtained permission from the court to conduct unspoken investigation into Ruban. I emphasize that the MP's immunity has prevented us from doing anything, including taking information off the phones or directly recording the National MP himself. Thus, the matter was recorded exclusively by Reuben himself for the purpose of exposing particularly serious crime and others involved in it. Ruban and Savchenko were convinced that the officers of the Special Forces and their subordinates were complicit in the planned overthrow of the constitutional authority in Ukraine. And after delivery, the first shipment of weapons from DNR territory was openly described and implemented along with them their criminal intent. This explains why other participants are not actually arrested. For, thank God that these officers did not send in three hells with such ideas of a terrorist act, but they turned to the U.S.S.A. and recorded the preparation of the act. And once again, as of November, the first bus with Ruban behind the wheel with Deputy Savchenko in the back of the truck. The truck came from DNR along with a weapon, it became clear that it was not a myth, it was not a sick fantasy or surrealism, it was an import from the enemy of Ukraine of the DNR terrorist organization for the destruction of the country's leadership, the destruction of ordinary people in the course of a minor shelling of the capital center to create chaos and power. After an expert on the Ukrainian Security Service, the weapons were transported to the city of Hmelnicky and were stored in the military area of a special assignment regiment. On December 2, 2017, Savechenko and Ruban arrived in Hmelnicki to test the Topaz sniper rifle, which is manufactured exclusively in the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic" and pierces armed vehicles to prepare a terrorist act against the state's superior officials. There, on a court-sanctioned site, Ruban reported his plans, and later that day, on the evening of Ruban and Savechenko, four officers were told about the specifics regiment that was recorded on the video by the court, and you'll see her soon, and you've told her about your plan for a terrorist attack. The plan was to overthrow the constitutional system by carrying out terrorist attacks on the central government district of Kiev, by making a terrorist attack in the middle of the Supreme Council building, using weapons derived from the leaders of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic. Please turn on the video at this point, which will take about 20 minutes. In closing, I'm going to add a few words that happened after the events recorded in the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u101	Please turn on the video, Apparatus, please. Please hold for 10 seconds, now turn on the "Race" system. Dear colleagues, the Council system is now preparing for the inclusion of the video that was provided by the Attorney General's Office. I'll remind you that the film will last about 20 minutes -- the videos presented by the Attorney General's Office, and you'll be able to see them. Then the Attorney General will finish his speech. It will be given up to 10 minutes for questions from factions and groups to the Attorney General. Then it will be given according to the law for 15 minutes for Savchenko Nadia Victoriani. Then there will be the ability to speak (not for questions, but for speeches) of national deputies and factions – up to 24 minutes, and from national MPs – up to 9 minutes. So that's our rules of procedure on this issue. This will probably last until 13:20 – 13:25. And actually, after that, we'll be able to move on to the next questions of order of the day. This is so that all the national MPs will be able to navigate through our work schedule and be able to navigate through the matter. So I ask the Council system to prepare and include the video provided by the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u102	Let me finish the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u103	Let's let Yuri Vitaliyovich finish, and then we'll include a preview.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! I'm going to finish the text that I was going to say after the video, but I think the MPs are wise and they're going to be able to synthesize parts of my information. After the first shipment of weapons and the announcement of their plan of terrorist attacks to four special - purpose officers, Savechenko and Ruban agreed on the need to acquire additional weapons. By the way, a lot of the press said that the cargo did not match, saying that the mines were not the caliber that was one of the minomets. The point is that these second-load mines were completely suited for the minomets that were delivered in the first load, 120 millimeters. For investigation, this second shipment of weapons plan was crucial in determining exactly where the weapons were used to commit a terrorist act in the center of the Ukrainian capital. From March 6 to March 8, Rubana’s car, equipped with a special video surveillance of the Ukrainian Security Service, crossed the line of delimitation and headed for the territory of the occupied Donetsk region. I continue to read the information that I have been allowed to publish to the Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. Ruban arrived at the Majoorsk KPV in the direction of Gorlovka on the Mercedes Sprinter truck without having to go through the proper examination procedures. On his approach to the zero-block post called DNR, he was met by a Ford escort car AN 0088IM. After passing a zero - stop stop, Rubana’s car stopped to transfer the control of his own undetermined male vehicle in military form, armed with a Kalashnikov machine. Ruban, in turn, moved into a car with a companion. Then two cars continued moving toward the city of Donetsk. It should be noted that the route was routed through the military route from leaving Pantelemonovka’s inhabited area to entering Spartacus’s population with the likely purpose of conspiracy of the route. Upon arriving in the city of Donetsk, Rubana’s car followed him to the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of the DNR, where he was left for the night. At 10:47 a.m., the car was tracked to a bus base, Economic Street, house 4, 11 of a separate motorcycle regiment called DNR, accompanied by a car called ZAZ Patriot with a military registration of DNR. Upon arrival at the base at 10:54, the car was loaded with unfixed male men, dressed in military uniforms with signs of the so-called DNR, with weapons of great radius of impression: mines 120 millimeters, AK-74 PM firearms, and ammunition that masked the furniture. After that, the loaded car followed to the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations. At 2:47 p.m., a particular car began to move toward Gorlovka. Upon arriving at the designated site, the car was located at 22A Sverdlov Street, the third separate battalion of DNR, where from 16:07 to 23:11 was recharged with military equipment. After that, he continued the movement towards BP "DNR" Mikitovka. It's important to say that all three of the war areas where Ruban's car was loaded are run by Russian Federation Armed Forces officers: Colonel Szczedrin Mikola Alexiyovich, who will then be screened. At this address in Gorlovc, Colonel Berdnikov Alexei Mikolayovich of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, invited – Mercury – the name of the cover – Tkachenko. At this address, Lieutenant Colonel Titov Roman Borisovich is in charge of the military in Donetsk, and he is invited to "Altajec", the name of the cover-up, Demonov, the Russian Federation Armed Forces. Also found in the armory was a packing letter from the military, which I had just mentioned as a guide. Thus, we have not only the development of a plan, the preparation for the coup d'état and the terrorist acts against civilians and officials of the Ukrainian State, but full cooperation with the leaders of the terrorist organization who are enemies of the Ukrainian State. It was for their promotion that their weapons were going to blow up the Supreme Council, shoot the entire center of the Ukrainian capital with 120-millimeter large-caliber mines. The organizers themselves realized that it was a sea of blood, chaos. This is exactly what Zacharychenka, as well as those of the Russian Federation, needed to wage an aggressive war against our nation. I think there's only one phrase to say right now. The eighth issue of the Ukrainian KP "Majorsk" was held by members of the U.S.S.A.'s car, and was subjected to a warranted search that removed all weapons and explosives intended for a terrorist act. Ruban himself was detained, later arrested, thus halting his criminal activity. Here's the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u105	Thank you. Please turn on the video. [[Video Preview]] Colleagues, attention, attention! I'm asking you to turn off the video, prepare a good quality. Now, 10 minutes of questions from the deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, now is the time for questions from the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no. Colleagues, we will not interrupt the discussion. I'm begging you now. We have 10 minutes of questions from the National MPs. I'm asking you to record a question from the people's deputies. Please, Teteruk Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u106	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich, I have a question: how many people are going through this case? Who is the principal contractor identified? And what is the general funding of this operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u107	Thank you. I would like to stress once again, because the Special Forces officers informed the Ukrainian Security Service of the planned terrorist attack plan and coup d'état, the perpetrators were confident that they had a serious military power at their disposal, which would take part in their planned attack on the constitutional system in Ukraine and the destruction of senior officials of the state, and in the shelling of artillery at the centre of the Ukrainian capital. Fortunately, other organizers were not looking for this because they were confident that they had reached agreement with the management of the 8th Special Forces. In the case of the suspect, Ruban himself is arrested for two months. Today, I ask the Supreme Council to give permission to bring responsibility, arrest and arrest another party to a conspiracy -- the national MP, Savchenko -- in order to complete the investigation and refer the case to the court within a short period of two to three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u108	Thank you. So the word for the question is given to Fedoruku. Fedoruku Mikoli Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u109	Please give the floor to the national MP, Anton Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u110	Good afternoon! Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, you know, I've looked very carefully at the Attorney General's arrest and detention of Hope Savchenko where it's reported that there's been an attack on the Supreme Council, the killing of MPs, ministers, the President and so forth. Well, we've all been cursed for a long time, but what is the fault of the simple boys guards of the Supreme Council, Ukrainians who would have been killed in such an attack? As I read this, I thought that Mrs. Savchenko was out of her mind. Will psychiatric expertise be conducted after we grant permission to arrest her and arrest her?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. In fact, I don't support a large-scale campaign to declare Nadia Savechenko a mentally ill person. I think it's just one of the methods of protection to avoid legal criminal responsibility, which, from the point of view, any terrorist in any country of the world, of course, has a flawed mind, because to think of importing four 120-millimeter mines into which 60 minutes of damage are added. 46 minutes with a blast radius of up to 200 meters that can fly up to 7 kilometers, each of which carries 4 kilograms of explosives, and 3 of these mines can penetrate the overlap of any building, any building, including housing in the center of the Ukrainian capital, of course, may not be a normal person. But, of course, by answering your question, I can say. Among the primary investigations scheduled for today, paragraph 8 lists the appointment of a forensic psychiatric expert. This will remove all questions and eventually stop covering up criminal intent and preparing for a terrorist attack by importing hostile deneri weapons into the territory of the Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "Council" system reports they're ready to start the movie. If the movie goes now, we're going to end the question in the same sequence as it's written. Please show the film whether it will go in good quality. Please, sound. [[Video Preview]] So, your honors, the video is finished. Two minutes now, Attorney General. And let's keep asking questions. We still have five minutes to ask. Please, if there are no questions, and your three are next, then we are. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I think all reasonable people have found out about the plan that exists in the minds of the conspirators, the preparations for this plan, the recruitment of perpetrators of a terrorist act, cooperation with terrorist organizations and the aggressor country, preparation and execution, transportation and many other elements of this terrorist crime. For people who love cynical jokes about MPs or other officials, I want to remind them that this has already happened. There has already been a firefight from the heavy weapons of the centers of Ukrainian cities. There has already been the capture of administrative state buildings, coordination with the leaders of terrorist organizations and the Kremlin. All of it was in Crimea, all of it was in Donetsk, all of it was in Lugansk. And that's not surrealism at all. This is called a terrorist coup in conspiracy and in favor of the enemies of the Ukrainian State. The phrase, "Boys asking, change power," means Ruban and Saucenko in coordination with the leader of the leader of the terrorist group, "DNR" Zacharychenkom. The package letters shown to you mean that from the weapons issued to the officers of the Russian Federation, they prepared the destruction of the leadership of the Ukrainian State and the mass impression of peaceful people in the center of the Ukrainian capital under the tens of 120-millimeter mines of heavy mines that came from occupied areas. I, the honourable MPs, really, as often as they like to mention, have no vocational education, but I have good experience and knowledge. And I know that this is the plan that always started the overthrow of the state. In 1932, Austria, where 130 Austrian-dressed fascist paratroopers tried to overthrow the Austrian state, which ended with anishlus and millions of victims of World War II; in Crimea, where green men were first captured by administrative buildings; in Donetsk and Lugansk, where several of the passersby stated that they were not supporting the Kyiv junta, Pete, as it says, should be taken down, and then they would have arranged with us, and then they would have arranged with us, that was all, I am a physicist and I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u114	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u115	The blast of the superstar always brings forth a black hole, and into this hole in Donetsk, and Lugansk has already sucked into thousands of victims, thousands of corpses, our heroes, our peaceful people, our women and children. This is exactly the plan of the large-arms shooting of Kiev, the explosion and its destruction of the ruling constitutional structures of Ukraine, aimed at a new huge black hole for all of Ukraine. Please give permission to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest one of the organizers, in which we have reason to suspect her, a terrorist act against the Ukrainian State of National Deputy Nadia Savchenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u116	Thank you. We have four minutes to ask. The first question is Mosiyczuk, the second is Melniczuk. Two questions, and we won't be able to make it. No, two questions, the following are followed by other reporters. Melniczuk. Turn on the microphone, please. Musiczuk. Turn on the microphone, please, Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u117	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I don't have any questions about Savechenko. I have a few such questions. First of all, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I would like you to comment on what the media say about the military coup, that it is not a military coup or military coup, as you think? The other one. Have the contacts of this group been recorded with Zechariah and Russian curators? And the third, personal question, was about "monkeys," a lot of terrorist attacks in Kiev using MON happened. And do we know anything, and when the D.A. and the Security Service are ready to tell you about the attack on me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u118	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Armed Forces of Ukraine and specifically the officers of the eighth regiment of a special assignment who have been able to stop this attack. As always, in the face of an external or internal enemy, regardless of how disguised he is under high authority, our officers have shown their devotion to the Ukrainian state. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian Security Service, which in this unprecedented, not only in Ukraine but in most European countries, the operations have been able to clearly record all the perpetrators: install a specialist, record a video, and even carry out weapons loading by criminals. All of this was a perfectly secret operation that is now approaching its finale. Also, Mr. People's MP, I want to answer directly: there was no military riot in Ukraine. There was an attempt on the part of two people to act in favour of the Russian Federation as an aggressor country and a terrorist organization called DNR, with the leader of which National MP Savechenko was directly negotiating, which she was reporting to you right here in the hall, from the video. You've heard of boys asking "change power, here in Kiev, change power." The boys gave grenades and mints to overthrow power here, not to blow Zacharychenka up while he was sitting at the table with him, but to destroy Ukrainian power here. You've also heard about the request of the boys, to give them Turk's, because it's personal. I think it all shows the degree of morality, the degree of responsibility to the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people, who are so often using Mrs. Savichenko in their speeches to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u119	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u120	One minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u121	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u122	I want you, those who are not familiar with military matters, to read what the organizers have brought in from there and whether it was really just an attack on MPs, how they want the arrows now, or only on seniors. A Utes machine gun was brought in, breaking through the armored cars. Let's say it's for the authorities. 11 machine guns and rifles, 12.7-caliber rifle Topaz, produced only in the DNR, which penetrates weapons at a vast distance, and 260 rounds of ammunition, 2 hand-held RPG 7B anti-tank grenade launchers with 12 rocket shells for them, for the impression of heavy and armored equipment, including tanks and a special warehouse in shelters, RPG-22, 250 meters long, 6 minutes of 82 millimeters of calibre fired from these grenade launchers, 4 minutes of caliber 122 millimetres, the favorite weapon of the DNR terrorists, strikes at 7 kilometers, splits.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u124	Each shell carries 4 kilograms of explosives and 3 shells pierce the ceiling of any building, 12 fragments of MON-50 anti-personnel mines, and the impact range is 80 meters. Each of these mines contains 0.7 kilograms of explosives. 60 RGD-5 grenades, an impression radius of 25 meters. All of this was to be created, as Ruban said, by chaos in the streets, the more blood -- the better. Today, it is well established by the testimony that the perpetrators planned to install grenade launchers either on Truhan Island or on a barge from Dniper and to shoot the center of Kiev, as you understand, is not the point. Who would suffer more, or the ordinary Ukrainians who are here live and work? The answer is obvious: it was a terrorist attack aimed at overthrowing the Ukrainian state, and I'm going to add nothing more. And that's got to be the responsibility. I did as you did to get Savechenko out of Russian prison. Even if I had known that she was planning similar plans, I would have stood up for her release, because every Ukrainian can't be in enemy captivity, but every Ukrainian, even if he's a hero, has to be in charge of the law. By the law of false replacements, they are given up to five years. What should be done to those who have allegedly checked the alertness of the U.S.S.A.? We've checked. We've got an on-the-spot alert. This is due to the highest degree of punishment. The set of articles allows me to ask not only for attraction but also for arrest. And I'm sure it's a principle thing for all those to whom the Ukrainian State is the highest value and the main shield to protect the lives of millions of its citizens. It's not about the MPs, but it's about the fact that people without a state are immediately targeted by terrorists who, as you've heard on film, are going to be repressing thousands. That won't happen! This intention was thwarted by the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the procurator's procurators. Thank them for their important work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u125	Thank you. And I've already announced. The last question is Ivan Melniczuk. And then there's Hope Savchenko. Melniczuk says. Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I don't have the same questions as my previous colleague speaking to either the head of the Ukrainian Security Service or the Attorney General's Office. I just want to tell you what I heard. I heard that Zacharyenko had given good support to all the mess that was to take place in Kiev. And he guaranteed his support for Savchenko in Kiev in these actions that she was planning to carry out here. What else can we talk about, and of what can we doubt? You'll see what's going on today. At 6 o'clock this morning, the police in the lobby detained a local resident named Gresik in the 1990s, who discovered and removed a trotyle hat weighing about 100 grams, and a plastide weighing 100 grams. We're talking about what he's reporting today is that he's replacing the police department on Gruszewski Street. In our law enforcement agencies, there are a lot of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u127	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u128	Many of the work that has been done to expose these Moscow misdeeds in our Ukraine, which today has tried to lead Savichenko, has been directed by the same Michael Saakashvili, in my opinion. Let the law enforcement authorities work. Let's support them in everything. Let's take it out of these Moscow misdemeanors who joined the Supreme Council. I'd like to see the reaction of the faction leader today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, are asking questions for the Attorney-General's presentation. Thank you. There'll be a closing statement. Now it is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nadja Viktorovni, within 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u130	Meet me now. This is the Star of the Hero of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u131	You are now shouting the shame of the stars of the Hero of Ukraine, and it has a lot of Ukrainians. And this is a parliamentary certificate, a deputy mandate. What's more expensive? What should be the first to betray? To give you a mandate and leave politics to be happy, or to give up the Star of Hero, as many want? People who support me say, "Don't give up the Star," but they'll understand if I give it back to those who will then "comfort." And if I give it back, the ones who get laid are still going to pour shit. So the question is, should I betray the people of Ukraine by giving up the Star of the Hero of Ukraine? No, I won't. This name is not easily given; it is given by blood to many. I have argued that I am a hero of Ukraine in Moscow prisons against the enemy outside, and I will prove to you, Ukraine’s inner enemies, what a hero of Ukraine is. Is it worth the mandate, and what is it? Ukrainians, that's what gives you the right to be among them, that's what gives you the right to be foreign in this rotten pit. The Attorney General has told you how to break up the shells. Scary? When it's written, yeah, what's the dispersion of the calibre, what's the fracture, what's the trauma? And you can imagine that hundreds of people and thousands of people know it on their own. Has anyone stopped the war here? Tried, stopped stealing, like you promised? It's okay to steal. Ukrainians now want peace from both sides. [[B in m in s a l in]] And if any of you were to go and talk to the Ukrainians from the west to the east, you would realize that the only evil in Ukraine that is not peaceable is the Ukrainian authorities. And the evil beyond Ukraine, which does not give peace, is the Russian authorities. So how are we different for our people from our invader? All he just called the Attorney General incriminating me as a crime were exactly his actions as leader of Maidan. You're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out. All that Ukrainians really need is for there to be no scary paintings that you've been depicted in political provocation and in this surrealism. I'll tell you what stopped it. These are the four people who sit in the lobby who always give us the cards that put our votes out on these monitors, the people who provide television monitors and make this Council work and video go on. These people who are here and watching Parliament work, these people who are constantly criticizing us. These are your guardian angels. It wouldn't have been there, you'd have had it a long time ago. To the Ukrainians, this is your act of duty. The punishment for your crimes will catch up with you. To scare me of something, you don't insist. Offering me deals won't make me go to them. The video shown, she spoke a couple of times for recording to a camera. And the main thing is, right now, you need to realize that these red lines are very close to you. That fear is in your parliament and I'm not the only one in Parliament who thinks that. What the whole Ukrainian people think! I said "all the Ukrainian people," which you're killing, which you're dividing, with the enemy you're trading. You haven't done anything in this Parliament in four years so that the war you started by sharing your portfolios won't come to you in Parliament! They didn't do anything! And that's why now it's just a litmus. And then you'll see what happens. If the father continues to have to blow up a grenade in court in order to achieve justice in any way; if the soldier who returns from the front has to end his life by suicide, and the bullet never comes to the forehead of the one who screamed and so asks for a bullet in his forehead, then I will not be your danger in Parliament. Your people will be in danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u132	Thanks for the show. Now according to the Rules. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u133	I'm not done yet. How many minutes is it, 15?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u134	By the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u135	We're waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u136	This is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the speech is finished, I'll announce its completion. If you have something to add, I'll give you a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u137	Mr. Andrey, my performance isn't finished. I've got 15 minutes under the Rules. Please give them to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u138	There will be no parliament, Hope, for 10 minutes waiting for a tragic silence. We will proceed to the discussion and to the conclusion of the matter. An extremely important issue lies ahead. [[Applause]] So now I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups. No, I'm sorry. Five minutes from the regulatory committee, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules is Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, up to five minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u139	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 22 March considered, with the participation of Attorney-General Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich and National Deputy Savchenko Nada, Viktorovna, the submission of an agreement to criminalize the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nada Viktorovina, the consent to the detention of Ukrainian National Deputy Savchenko, and the consent to the selection of a precautionary measure in the form of detention in respect of the National Deputy of Ukraine, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney-General, who asked for consideration and support of the above-mentioned submissions. The submissions indicate that the trial has established that, since November 17th to this day, Savechenko Nadija Viktorovna has committed a number of serious and particularly serious crimes against the fundamentals of national security of Ukraine and against public security. The committee adopted conclusions that the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nada Victorovina, was legal, as it was initiated and submitted by the appropriate applicant, as well as sufficient and reasonable. The submission of an agreement to detain the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nadja Viktorina, and the granting of an agreement to select a precautionary measure in the form of a security guard (arrest) in respect of this National Deputy is legal, since it is initiated and submitted by an appropriate subject, as well as sufficient and justified in particular by the following. The hope of Viktorovna Savchenko did not give up the crime, did not stop the relationship with likely accomplices, and did not abandon the intention of ending the crime. It is also based on an extremely high degree of social danger of criminal offences that are being incriminated by the national MP, Savichenko. It is also based on the fact that Nadia Viktorovna Savchenko can leave her permanent residence, move out of Ukraine, where she will be hidden from the authorities of pretrial investigation and court, and illegally influence witnesses in criminal conduct who have information about the circumstances of the crime, to prevent criminal conduct otherwise. Colleagues, the report is closed. There's no need for a closing word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u140	Thank you. Now I'm asking you to record from factions and groups first, then it'll be from MPs. Please record statements from factions and groups. From the "Fatherland" faction to the performance by Sobolev Sergija Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I think that what Parliament is currently considering, and this is actually not just a debate of Parliament, but of the whole country, and attempts by the figures of this case to make out of this clown I won't make it. I want you to go to YouTube in front of me. On October 27, 1999, the Armenian Parliament was the same clown who had played before, only on the day of the government’s parliamentary session, the clowns who had played themselves as if they had not prepared, with five rifles pointing at the government’s bed, the presidency, and then burned in the hall. The number of victims thus far has been set. The broken negotiations between the governments of Armenia and Azerbaijan in dealing with the situation in Nagorny Karabas, the effectively eliminated government, have actually done everything to make the country a mess. They didn't even have to shoot in the streets, they cleaned up Parliament, and they cleaned up the government. The same good intentions, anti-national politicians and everything. It is only then that a total dictatorship is established in the country, parliament is destroyed, all the media is closed, and the president of the country, who is then on his knees crawling into Moscow. I think that even after these specifics, even on dates of exactly 20 years, I think these symbols that Putinim had made through Sugarcane and their fifth column were quite clear. Our faction has decided to vote in favour of the Attorney General, but there is one question. Yuri Vitaliyovich and Mr. Head of the Ukrainian Security Service when you come to Parliament with such materials, honour and thanks. Only when the 109 - article seats are held by people who are members of the rural councils or who hold the minimum positions and the only crime they commit, 109 articles, the attempt to seize state authority, is political voting on the local councils, which is why they cause mistrust. But here on the first day we saw this video, I said that it was one of the best operations of our security forces, unlike many others that were preparing. That's why I think it's Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u142	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u143	I think that Parliament's decision should be adopted accordingly in order that, forever, in our country, terror will never be dominant when there is a possibility of political proof of its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, this is Alexander Briginet speaking from Peter Dustenka's Block. Welcome to Mr. Alexander's words.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, of course, the Peter Dust Block will vote for all three of the attorney general's appeals, because we always support all the appeals, because we believe that MPs should be untouchable. And the removal of immunity from one particular MP is only nearing the time when all of us will be untouchable. And because these facts that we've seen today are really very convincing, and they prove that a crime that didn't happen was planned. And a great respect, a great sense of gratitude to both the B.S.A. and our fellow officers who didn't betray Ukraine, and to all the others who didn't help find this weapon within Ukraine. We understand that there could have been such options. Of course, it may be that this episode, this attempt at terror, is not the only one that made this team. And I very much hope that this question will also be studied. I'm convinced that there were other attempts because I've heard of the various conversations of Savichenko that took place near the front line. She met people a great deal, and she provoked them every time to do such acts of protest. I think it's very important. It's very important, to me personally, that we today have to show solidarity. Because the technology of the destruction of power, the destruction of government, it wasn't only as my colleague Soboljev said it was done in Armenia. Let's think about our story. And unless the entire government escapes, suddenly, one day, under Putin's command, it wasn't an attempt to leave Ukraine without power to dismember it. I am absolutely convinced that then Yanukovich, Azarov and everyone else fled on one day for this very reason to leave Ukraine without leadership. So I would say that in this case it's just a double two. Are we all to blame for being here? Yes, of course, it's everyone's fault. But we are guilty of supporting her simply as a human being, and none of us have brought her into politics. And I'm sorry, of course, that Julia Volodymyrna is not here today to say who forced her to join the list. Was there a request, perhaps someone? The other one. We heard that Timoshenko had been accused of meeting with Zacharychenk. Is that what we should hear today? It's very important for all of us, so that all the questions are answered today, so that it doesn't -- just vote and that's all. But I really hope, even though Julia Volodymyr is not, she's definitely going to give an explanation anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u146	30 seconds. 30 seconds to complete. I'm begging you. We have all the factions speaking and have the right to express their position. I ask you, colleagues, a very sensitive question. 30 seconds to complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u147	And, of course, here I was reminded that I was in Fatherland. Yeah, I was in Fatherland. But I'll tell you, the prison broke more than one Savechenko. Timishenko has become completely different, and you know it all very well. Of course! And please, please, look, please tell me about Timoshenko's share in the vote? No, it's not. Did Russia's punishment order vote? No, it's not. Today we will vote in favour of not admitting elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u148	Thank you, thank you. Dear Mr. Alexander, thank you so much for speaking. You're welcome. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much, you're going to find out the relationship with each other later, and now it's an important question. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Colleagues, please. Please, Oleg Berezuk. The head of the Self-Help faction is invited to the floor. Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, I would like to stress, how to play with the Ukrainian statehood and security of every person in Ukraine, and the state in general cannot. It makes me sad and ashamed, it makes people angry and hate and laugh, half hate and half laugh. The seventh, if not mistaken, fiery sermon of the Attorney General in the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the crimes he is investigating and our vote on the elimination of the inviolability and arrest and detention. What did this give the country: money, security? No, it provokes anger and hatred in people because today there is a crime in Parliament where it is impossible to return 15 billion dollars stolen from peasants from two oligarchs. Is it the Attorney General's office? No, it causes anger and hatred. Who is using this natural anger and hatred of people? Of course, it is used by the enemy, including both the outside and the inside. Isn't this a special operation on both sides to prevent the President's timely election? Is this not an attempt on the part of external and internal enemies who are uncomfortable with the country’s chaos? There is no doubt such a hypothesis, and I ask the Ukrainian Security Service to what confidence, to address the issue of who is the most advantageous chaos in Ukraine? And the chaos in Ukraine is only advantageous to the enemies. What happened is another discredit, you know what? A peaceful protest against the exercise of power. This is a discreditation of the peaceful protest of the people, anyone who will now protest a peaceful will be either a Moscow or a terrorist. This is a crime against the Ukrainian people. And, lastly, every national MP in whose actions are signs of crime against statehood must be equal before the law and be accountable according to law. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u150	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u151	And the toys can't be here. But I'm reminding the Attorney General, every deputy we've given here and released from inviolability has given you the right to arrest and arrest, everyone, Mr. Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u152	Please welcome to the word from the opposing block faction Yuri Boyko. Sir, Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u153	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Our faction looks forward to a reply from the Constitutional Court regarding the changes to the Constitution, which voted in Parliament in October 2017 and according to which the integrity of the members of the Supreme Council of all will be removed. This is what we have with you, the entire Parliament, promised the people of Ukraine and the voters when we went to the elections. Our faction will support the appeal and the bill of not being touched by the President, the National Deputies and the Judges when he appears in the Hall, and we hope that this will be done as soon as possible. We will not change our position, nor will we vote for the removal of inviolability from individual deputies. We insist that this is taken out of everyone and that we stop this theater show, which we see every week after we take off the touch in the hall. The other one. We saw a movie. I want to remind you that this isn't the first movie we see in the hall today. I want to remind you of the film, and some people in the hall saw it with their own eyes, about August 2015, when there was no effort, but there was a real attack, and when the four Nazi Guards, mentioned today by the speaker, died before the Supreme Council, protecting you, too. Do you think someone's being punished after that? Someone's been punished? No, it's not. Similarly, unpunished journalists who have committed two murders in the center of Kiev have not been punished by the bombings of military arsenals that took place in the air for four years. So, honourable national MPs, we think it's necessary to increase law enforcement in all directions, and first of all to attract those responsible for the terrorist attacks that have already taken place. And the last. We believe that the main reason for the increase in radicalism in the state, and everyone knows that, is the total poverty of the population that has occurred in the last three years. And Parliament's struggle must be the very cause of these phenomena that push people into radical action: supporting the social population, fighting poverty, and working for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u154	Next word to the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Mr. Oleg, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u155	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The story with Nadia Savchenko causes great disappointment and pain, and not only in me, but I think in millions of people, I don't think, but I believe, millions of Ukrainians, millions of people all over the world who fought for its liberation. And I'm absolutely sure that millions of people who were trying to get Savchenko released weren't really trying to get her to drive weapons from occupied territory to commit terrorist attacks in Kiev. Hope of Saucenko represents herself as a heroine and tells us that if she blows up parliament, the authorities of the state, and so on, she will be a heroine. Evidently, Mrs. Hope knows little about Ukrainian history. The Ukrainians were never terrorists, the Russians were terrorists, and the whole history of the king was clear. [[Applause]] And Ukrainians, yes, they're Cossacks, they can protect. But we have this saying: We don't need a stranger, but we won't give up ours. Chaos, terror, bloodshed is something no Ukrainian person wants that doesn't apply. Because with good intentions against the president, the prime minister, or the deputy, there may be someone’s child, someone’s wife, someone’s journalist, someone’s assistant, out of completely random people. Because the mine is a fool and it doesn't choose where it's going, either to Láška or to Savechenko or to a woman who's standing guard in the Supreme Council. It would be a real heroism if Mrs. Hope were. Hope, how sad to call that name Hope, because for Ukrainians, faith, hope, love are sacred things. And if Nadia had used that weapon to blow up her friend Zacharyenko. [[Applause]] I think thousands of Ukrainian parents would thank her for this, parents whose children have not returned from the front, parents who have come out of captivity, whom we have exchanged, tortured, castrated, who have been abused by her friends -- Zachressenka, Plotnicki, Tashkents, and everyone else. And when she tells us that it's important to make a deal with Zacharychenk, and here we are in Kiev, it's very sad to hear it all. You know, I've got heartache, I'm as thick as a politician, but I'm really sorry that we're so divorced, the whole Ukrainian people. The story of Hope will not only be included in the history books but also in the intelligence textbooks. They're going to study how an anthem can glue a bullet, vaporize it here into Ukrainian space, and then use it for chaos and the destruction of the state. I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine. Because many people take things emotionally. I want to say a very sober thing. Foreign security services (and not just Russian, but many other foreign intelligence services) are conducting a series of operations to break up the country from the inside. People are good, be careful. Don't act! Not all the gold that shines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u156	Now we're taking the floor from the People's Front, Yuri Berezi. Please, Mr. Bereza, give me your word. And I'm sorry. Is this the last one we're going to have from MP groups and factions or are we still looking for? Yes, there is. All of it. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u157	Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! Dear journalists! Dear Ukrainian people! Now, from this high court, I want to thank the security forces and the head of security, who are now in the Supreme Council, for what they have done. [[Applause]] For saving thousands of lives. That's it. And that's a fact. It is the work of ordinary workers day and night. Vasil Sergiyovich, we are very grateful. I thank the parents, I thank the children, all those who could die peacefully. In peaceful Kiev, first of all. But that's not what I'd like to go on. Lately, you know, this is what we're talking about, it's taken up a lot of information space. And when I understood the quote from his book, I read that when I was a child, instead of studying Ukrainian history, it was a lot of alcohol and it didn't know or read Ukrainian history. Just 100 years ago, the same representatives as this is what it now calls itself, "the left-winger," did everything they could to keep the Ukrainian state from happening. Everything was done to ensure that the Ukrainian state did not take place. And you know, when I hear that this misunderstanding was ready to take Russian troops to Ukrainian Kiev, I want to ask if it was reporting at all. You know, it's very easy to call it crazy. No, it's not crazy. Let's ask my fighter, who was captured by Russian soldiers under Ilowaysk, personally captured Artem Kravchenk, and I think if this miracle had brought Russian troops here, they would have shot and killed Ukrainians. Who's barking, who's barking to the left? I can talk a lot, you know. I know clearly that the hall will now unite and vote unequivocally in favour of all the appearances of the Attorney General. And now I would like to address the words of the great Lina Kostenko. "The soul asked – how long?Oh, my God! They drowned the land in wickedness and wickedness. And I said, "Strangers, give it a rest, don't stand there. Don't sit down and betray me on my land. It's already sown. It's all right, it's all right. No more plows, no more hair. And we are. And most of all, the miracle is that my people have been resurrected again." Glory to Ukraine! And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, from "The Will of the People" Yuri Ribczynski. This will be the last of groups and factions, from groups and factions, then from deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u159	Eugene Ribczynski. [[do not hear]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u160	Excuse me, Eugene, Eugene Ribczynski, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u161	This morning I was preparing to vote for the removal of the inviolability and not vote for the incarceration. I still had great hope that Nadine’s talk would give us any way to anoint her. But her talk completely led to her guilt, sadly. She wants to unite separatists inside the country. Separatists from LNR, DNR and separatists who have moved to the heart of Ukraine to the city of Kiev. Unfortunately, too much regret, I am very disappointed. Moreover, we had times when the people of Ukraine were destroyed, and we had times when Ukraine traveled millions abroad because it was impossible to live. Russia’s terrorist attacks destroyed the best, so to speak, Slavian roots because everything came out of this land. In the heart of this earth, there were many different things to be done. Asolda and Dire lifted up the people who came from Novgorod, you know. Now, Moscow, I'm pretty sure that if they got into Kiev today, they would've cut through all the patriotic footage, and I'm absolutely sure of that! They wouldn't leave any of you alive. And if someone doesn't vote today and I'm not going to vote in the morning, I'm going to consider him my personal enemy. "The will of the people" today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u162	So, colleagues, the factions are finished. And now we have nine minutes to speak from the Ukrainian national deputies. Therefore, I would like to ask the national MPs who are willing to participate in the discussion to record the presentation. Please record a statement by the national MPs. So the Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u164	Please, Mrs. Tetjana. Turn on the Blackwall microphone. From the rostrum, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u165	You know, my speech will be brief. But I want to say one thing that may not sound popular, but it is the truth. You know, it's very convenient now to contrast power and Ukrainians, the struggle for Ukrainian independence, the fight against aggression with Russia, and the power that seems to live in another world. And I want to say other things. You know, we've had a lot of pages in history that we've studied, kids have studied in schools. And we read, well, Ukraine has gained, like, independence or went to this independence year, second, third and all. And we read again, as they could. Year two, year three and gone again. So I want to tell you right now that we're completely different in this Supreme Council right now, but we're a collective body and we're an organ of state. There are other public authorities. And if you look at it globally, if you look at all of our work now in recent years, there's one conclusion: this is the first Ukrainian authority for a very, very long history. And we can be proud of that. We are truly proud because we are opposed to Russia’s aggression, a vast and bloodthirsty empire that has broken down for centuries and us who have broken many other nations. That's what we're talking about. And even the EU countries, even NATO countries, are now hiding behind us. It's all us. We have something to be proud of. And you don't have to fight it. You know, I want to say one last thing. There is no opposition to the Ukrainian people and even to this room, there is the opposition of the Ukrainian people and Nadi Savechenko, in which the crown has actually just grown to heaven and she has decided that she can stand up and take over this power by herself to join the President's Administration. And it's really disgusting when one man's crown creates a situation in a country that is now capable of destroying Ukrainian state power and leading Russia to power. If Parliament falls here, the Russian Parliament comes here, the Russian President Putin comes here, the Aggressor State comes here. That's understandable. And that's why I thank all the real heroes of Ukraine, many of them who don't have this star, many of them, indeed, who are currently being held by Ukraine. They're everywhere, they're in all of Ukrainian society, they're in this room, they're in the government, they're among the militia, they're among the military, they're among all, let them be a minority now, but now they're holding this state. Praise the heroes of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u166	Lapin Igor, who was given the word Bereza Yuri, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u167	Glory to Ukraine! I'm not gonna be able to say the poof words today, "Pula," you know me. I'm an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and I want to say to myself that I had the honour of protecting Ukraine in 2014. I want to fix it, Nadia, you, I want to correct in the sense that the authorities didn't send us to war to kill Ukrainians, we weren't sent to war, we went to volunteer, and you went to volunteer, and I went to volunteer, and there's a lot of guys who went to volunteer. We're being killed by Russian aggression, we're being killed by Russian bullets. I just want to remind myself of two battles that those who were at war know very well. The Battle for Metalist is a tragic page in the history of the Idar battalion, where we fought together, where so many of our boys died, and I was in that fight, and you were in that fight. And then what happened, it happens in the war, when someone falls somewhere, there are different situations. I want to remember the second battle, about Georgiyevka, when with the fighters of the 8th regiment of Special Forces, which I know very well, and many of them I know and will not call their invitees today when the boys came down to Georgia and Georgia was captured by Tamerlan. This is the man we wanted to trade for you, Melniczuk's team will confirm, and the brothers who were at Idara will confirm it. We wanted to trade you in, but unfortunately, you've already been taken to Russia. Why? Because maybe there wouldn't be so many different things that happened after that. We went to the elections and promised to vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary immunity. And I'm going to vote in favour today, being your brother and allowing you to prove in court what you said in the media that this is your specialty. I hate to vote for taking off the touch, you know, well, it's a very difficult time for me when it comes to my brothers. But as your brothers, I'm going to vote in favour today, and if you need my help, if you're innocent, I'm going to try to prove this innocence. But if it's your fault, I'm sorry, I'm voting for the removal of the inviolability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u168	The National MP, Artushenko, gives the floor to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to remind you of the words of the President of Ukraine, who said that the best guarantee of our independence was the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian military, the Ukrainian patriots, both the Security Service and the Attorney General's Office, and all those who are now fighting for our country's independence. And I would like to thank you sincerely, both our military and the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Attorney General for that, and for the brilliant operation they performed. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not simply a detached act of individuals. As we have seen, this is a clearly planned part of the hybrid war led by the aggressor country against our country with you against Ukraine. And today we see clearly that war is not just going on the frontline, it's going on the Kremlin and inside the country. And not just these events. Let's think about how much more of the Ukrainian Crimea was mentioned in the center of the city recently, how many other events were happening. We need to be alert. And you know what's most necessary today. Complete unity is needed. The full unity of the nation. The full unity of power. The full unity of Parliament. Because you know, even when they say they wanted to destroy Parliament. For being a reborn army? We wanted to destroy the President. For being a reborn army? For the reinvention of the Ukrainian defence industry? For being recognized by Russia as an aggressor in this room, I want to remind you? For what was the decommunization? And in Russia, you remember where they now make Stalin almost a hero. And a lot of people don't like it. Because Ukraine is being reborn as Ukraine? And how many decisions we made, both in Ukrainian cinema and in language and in music and in other questions in this room. So unity is the most important question today that should unite this room when it comes to decision-making. And you know, as for Mrs. Savchenko, I only have one question for her. When did this start? It started in 2014, or was it a long time ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u170	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Melniczuk gives the word. No, Melniczuk doesn't say a word. No, Melniczuk Sergey will be speaking. Sorry, I thought it was Melniczuk Ivan. Melniczuk Sergey concludes. Final speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u171	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! What happened is that when we actually meet with our brothers, I hear it every time. We got the Ukrainian people with you. They want to change power. And those who take up arms and defend them there, on the Front, they, believe me, want another power, not the one who robs them, not the one who doesn't let them live. When the mothers and the women of the dead write to me, "What about the boys who died for it?".. But on the other hand, the fact that the attack was planned. What he was planning, let's say, for two, that's a hundred percent. With those who plan to do so, "don't be afraid, don't be afraid to steal." But terrorism in the country is unacceptable. But please, we have to do everything we can to change the power, we've got people. If we don't do this, they're going to do it more radically, and they're going to do it, not Hope, somebody else, believe me. And what the Security Service is trying to keep the situation, yes, on the one hand, part of the service is working to prevent these crimes, and the other part of the service is to discredit it. I just want to read one of the Ukrainian Security Service papers since 19.06. 2017 for No. 38/7-10350. The Anti-Terrorist Centre at Ukraine’s BSC is conducting a complex of agency-operational measures to document the anti-constitutional activities of Melniczuk Sergio Petrovic for the stockpiling and evidentiary base with the aim of opening criminal conduct and drawing him to criminal responsibility, i.e. the Ukrainian Security Service is conducting a separate investigation. Who gave permission? What kind of criminal case? I have a question for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Signed by Malik's document, and I don't think there's another MP who doesn't like the authorities, that's how it works. One more. What was said by the Attorney General in 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u172	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u173	Yes, in 2014, you made a deal through Oleg Nedava with the terrorists, and so did Hope. So, investigate Nedava and tell me how he made the deal and how you wanted the Idar battalion to get me out of the ATO zone and send me to psychiatric expertise. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nothing. Peanutbots, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u174	So, colleagues, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Now the closing word. First Savchenko Nadija Viktorovna and then Yuri Vitaliovich. No, Yuri Vitaliyovich, first Nadia Savchenko, then Yuri Vitaliovich. And then the vote. And, colleagues, in 7-8 minutes, there will be a vote. I said that if Nadia Savchenko wanted to continue the talk after three minutes, I would add five more minutes until she had finished. Then Yuri Vitaliyovich, and then the vote. For the final word, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nadija Viktorovna, is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u175	A difficult situation in the hall, but in order to calm your dust and your nerves, I want to tell you that there is really an exit in Ukraine, no terrorist attacks, no difficult moments that can ruin the country. There's a simple, simple way out of this is a really legitimate way out of this is a change in the political system. That's the law you don't take on the electoral system. This is an opportunity to give the Ukrainians both a choice of deputies and a callback. Instead of focusing on political parties, instead of focusing on a person who keeps his word and works for the people. It is the right of Ukrainians to have the right to referendums, necessarily for the authorities to hear them. It's a normal constitutional right of people that we don't have. We have a Constitution written about referendums, we've never seen it before. We can't do the President's impeachment, so we're going to have the Maidans. In order to make the situation in Ukraine, without breaking Ukraine, without bringing an enemy here. It really is so far in your hands, in our hands to do it in a constitutional way. We need to set up a constitutional convention, a group that will write a new constitution. We need to launch it through a referendum of Ukrainians in order for Ukrainians to determine the social agreement by which they will continue to live in Ukraine and act, and cooperate with the government. Unlike what we have in the Constitution, we approve the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We must consider the will of the people in order not to blow the wind out of the cold yoke. Every time you speak here, you translate everything into political moments to your advantage. Every time you step out of these rostrums, you try to fool people's ears so they don't know where the truth is. This power has done nothing to ensure that Ukraine remains strong, independent, and that these people, who for 26 years in parliament, do the same for the Ukrainians themselves. To accuse me of betraying Ukraine, as you now accuse many more of those good things, the Igor who have gone to the front, who are now being forced to go, the brothers on charges, to accuse and make yesterday's heroes of today's anti-heroes just because they are incompatible with the position and politics of today's government, is now, indeed, all the authorities can do, all it uses. To let you know that the terrorist attacks you make economically, the terrorist attacks you make financially, the terrorist attacks you make by utility payments, by Ukrainian legislation, will come at you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u176	Please add up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u177	Ukrainians are beginning to understand. And this situation that I created right now in the session room, which I had to come up with, some way out, I always told the Ukrainians that I wouldn't invite you to the field, I didn't want you to freeze and die, I didn't act like the authority that came to the wheel, I didn't act like that. I want to run something, and if you watched that video, there was this very one phrase, the couple were rerun by Ruban for the camera, and I was told that the characters should die. Yes, they should, if Ukraine requires it. Ukraine is above all else! There was, there will be. It doesn't matter if I survive or if someone else survives, Ukraine will survive. Ukraine to be! Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u178	The closing statement is addressed to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. In a few minutes, there will be a vote and I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies! There's a war coming. The Ukrainian-Russian war is already going on longer than World War II has been going on for Ukraine. Thanks to our heroic Armed Forces, all the Ukrainian authorities have created a Ukrainian army that has made it impossible to capture our country. Thanks to the international anti-putin front, this military solution to Putin's problem has become virtually impossible, so the main efforts of the aggressor in recent years have focused on the destruction of Ukraine from the inside, what has always been destroyed by Ukraine, all its attempts to become an independent state, just as it was destroyed in the Hmelnick times, just as it was destroyed in the Ruin times, as it was destroyed in the days of the national-liberal races of the early 20th century, in the middle of the twentieth century. There was always a man who wore the image of a patriot and blew up the Ukrainian state. And then there was another occupation that was impaling Ukrainians in the yoke. Not by me, but by holy writing: the divided house shall not stand. The most important thing Putin and his fifth column here in Ukraine is to divide us. In recent months, the Security Service, along with the Henprocuratorship and other law enforcement departments, has uncovered a large network of anti-Ukrainian centres in Herson, Kharkiv, Lviv, Kiev, all of them receive funds for their anti-Ukrainian activities, for voting in sessions of impeachment polls, which boosts confidence in the President's institution at all, not in a particular person, for the purpose of embarrassing all deputies in general so that Ukraine does not believe anyone, and the elections are not at all seen as a possible democratic path for change in the country. Today we are present in the discovery of another important element of this inner anti-Ukrainian front -- the terrorist duet of Ruban, Savchenko is not a separate episode, confident that it is coordinated with all other elements of anti-Ukrainian activity. Both the Ukrainian Security Service and the Military Prosecutor's Office have the main task of installing the puppeteer who charges cards, money, mines, grenades against the Ukrainian state. So today is just the beginning of the process, not the end. We can figure out who this puppet guide is, because we hear here the slogan of the so-called "Ukrainian Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u180	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u181	We have just heard more than once in the speeches of the national deputy, the subject of my presentation of the Maydan military coup, the oligarchs who allegedly financed it, the fact that Dustenko solved the war, the fact that we do not want to hear the Donbass people. We've heard all this before. In Simferopol, in Lugansk and in Donetsk. And the author of this is still hidden behind the ribbons. I know and I will do everything I can to come here and not just name the last name, but to declare a criminal case and to attract the main enemy of Ukraine, who is organizing this inner subversive anti-Ukrainian front. So, reverends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your Honor, the position of Attorney General is different from that of a national MP because I'm not in enough scandals, and I need facts. And I'm very counting on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u182	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u183	The members of the anti-Ukrainian network still admit their guilt, repent to the Ukrainian State and the people and name whoever charged these torpedoes against our people. Now I ask for this, for this purpose, for the observance of the Law, for the protection of the state, for the peaceful life of the simple people on the streets of Kiev, to vote in favour of my three pleadings: for the prosecution of criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest. It's also hard for me to ask, but think about it, colleagues, 258th Part of the Third Terrorism are sitting on hundreds of suspects who were bringing weapons and preparing to commit terrorist acts or shooting our soldiers. If we take three LNR fighters today, or DNR, that's the 358th part of the second, too, will we regret it? Aren't we going to arrest him? Don't create a precedent, the law is one for all: for those who have received the star and for those who have openly made the DNR. For all, the Ukrainian law must be one. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u184	Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded in full procedure. And we're moving on to making decisions. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine raises the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Hope Volodymyrina. People's deputies, please vote. Vote. Victorine, Savchenko Hope Victorini. Please vote, vote. There will be three votes. [[13:42:03]] For 291 Decision taken. Second ballot. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the question of consenting to the detention of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nada Viktorovna. Please vote. [[13:42:41.]] For 277 Decision taken. And the third vote. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Act on the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the issue of consent to be elected as regards the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Hope, a precautionary measure in the form of custody, arrest. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:43:23]] For 268. Decision taken. And I am informing the Attorney General of Ukraine of the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on all three applications made by the Attorney General. Dear colleagues, please remain seated. Now we have very important questions. I'm asking you, colleagues, we have a high concentration, everyone to stay in. Now I suggest we do it by noon, put the day session in order to make a decision, first, Bill 8120 and 8121. This is a draft law amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on financial control. It's about continuing, prolonging e-declaration. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. You know, it's written in the agenda. I would like to support the proposal to include in today's agenda a day session for the adoption of decisions 8120 and 8121. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, please vote. Vote. [[13:44:39]] For-136 What are you doing, colleagues? It's an e-declaration! What are you doing?Oh, my God! Colleagues, focus. This, I'll explain again, just don't go away. I'll be more careful. I'm asking a question that's listed in the order of the day session. Integrating into the agenda of the day session to consider today. Continuation of the e-declaration. Yes, please, colleagues, take a look. We have to accept it today. Colleagues, please be very careful. I ask everyone carefully to include today in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of decisions 8120 and 8121. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote, support, colleagues. We have to take it by noon. Vote! Don't leave the hall, don't leave the hall. Please vote. [[13:45:49]] For 181 Fellows, I'll put it again, third time. Look, it's the right question, colleagues. It was written by law, and it was developed by the committee yesterday. This is a compromise decision supported by the committee. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote. I'll show you the factions. Show the factions the last vote. Peter Poshenko Block 73, People's Front 54, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 23, Radical Party 2, Parenthood 6. Colleagues, add the votes. Add the votes. I ask you once again to support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making now draft Laws 8120 and 8121. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I'd like your support, colleagues. This is a compromise decision supported by the entire committee. Vote. Please, I beg your pardon. Vote. Vote. Carefully, each voice matters. [[13:47:00]] For 193 All right, I'll put in some more after lunch. Next. Colleagues, it's a matter of the statement we've been talking to you about. I propose to include in the agenda today a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning Ukraine's non-recognition of the legitimacy of the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (8168-1). This is a committee decision supported by all factions. I'm asking you to put us in the agenda so that we can make a decision today. So the committee's agreed decision. I ask you to vote on the inclusion in the agenda for today's consideration of this decree that we talked about this morning. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:48:14]] For 253 Decision taken. And the next one, which is in order of the day for inclusion. Fellows, let me remind you, this is also our common position, signed by all the heads of factions. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the distribution of posts on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, based on the principle of d’Ondt. This is from the next call, the reform of the Council, signed by all the heads of the committees, the factions. I call upon the factions, the colleagues, all those who participate in the Monet Dialogues, all those who are storming into the discussion, with greatness. We've talked about this a lot. Mrs. Oksana, Mr. Arthur, all colleagues, let's support that we put in the agenda and now consider, this is a good compromise law. Colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda so that we can take a look at this. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, these are our international commitments and the reform of the Council. Please vote. Hold on, guys! Hold on, this is my big request. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:49:27]] For 210 I'll put it again, colleagues, not everyone's focused. Not everyone was. I mean, all the heads of factions are the authors of this bill. This was our shared commitment to the European Parliamentarians, which we shared and for which we held numerous discussions. The whole working group voted and supported it, colleagues. I'm asking you very much for your support. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote again so that we can put it into the agenda and now support bill 7550. And I remind you, we've had dozens of conversations, seven working groups, I'm asking everyone to support this inclusion in the agenda so that we can now make a decision. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote everyone carefully. Support me. Please be supportive. Please support me, BP. [[13:50:29]] For 230 230. Decisions were made. We can move on to his consideration, colleagues. We've had too many discussions, I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues, short-circuited procedure. Stay out of the hall, work day! I'll call who's coming out of the hall. There's no break, colleague. [[13:50:59]] For-138 Colleagues, we're on our way to work right now. Colleagues, look, there's a suggestion that we, of the three issues that we've included in the agenda, now consider the verdict. Is it accepted? Is the decision taken? Roger that. So we put the day session in order. Now we're moving on to the issue that we've put into the agenda of the day session, this is the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on Ukraine's non-recognition of the legitimacy of the election of the President of the Russian Federation. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. They stressed the need to accept it today. Please. [[13:52:16]] For 216 216th. Decision taken. And I'm here to report to the distinguished National Deputy of Ukraine, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich. Please. We need to listen to the reporter and the coconspirator, and then we will discuss and vote. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues, in the previous question, the Attorney General asked questions about the need to find a puppeteer who runs the anti - Ukrainian forces in Ukraine. So, what I'm saying is that we don't need to look for him, he's known for his puppet guide, his name Volodymyrovich Putin, whose term of office has been extended for another term, including our citizens of the occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In fact, this statement is based on the fact that we do not recognize the results of the election of the President of the Russian Federation on our Ukrainian land in the occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I want to express my gratitude on behalf of the co-authors of this statement. Thanks to the authors of the two draft decrees for coming up with this idea are the authors of the Peter Poshenko Block and the People's Front. This text, which is suggested to your mind, is a compromise text that allows all factions, Ukrainian factions, to vote in favour of this statement. On behalf of the authors, I ask you to support this draft statement. And in the same way, strike again against the anti - Ukrainian forces, including Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u186	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayevna, to report, and I declare that, according to the Rules, I will continue meetings for up to 15 minutes, but I think we will accept it more quickly. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u187	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to thank the People's Front, I want to thank the BPP, the Radical Party, the Fatherland, Self-Help, and everyone who's been working on this statement. In this statement, the Supreme Council states that the organization of the occupying Russian administration in the election of the President of the Russian Federation, the vote in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol is illegal. The results of this illegal vote are worthless and have no legal effect. We also encourage the International Society here to apply additional sanctions against the Russian Federation and personal sanctions to persons involved in the organization and to conduct illegal voting during the elections of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Also involved in systematic violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. I want to say that on March 1st, even to these so-called Putin conversions, we were addressing the international community. And in particular, our representation at the UN has referred to the Supreme Council, where we have condemned and requested sanctions to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, also to the members of the UN Security Council, as well as to all our international partners. And also, colleagues, today I want to say that this example of Savechenko, we have to prepare that the Kremlin has a clear plan for destabilization and on this story the story of the disorganization of chaos in Ukraine will not end. And so I would like to say very clearly that immunity from such as Savechenko could be the middle class in Ukraine, could be economic recovery, a strong army. But above all, it is the ability of the political class to unite efforts and work together to ensure that the State of Ukraine takes place and becomes truly strong and independent. Therefore, I thank and ask for your support for this text of the ruling worked on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u188	Thank you. Please hold: two for, two for, but very short, please. Please, two in, two in. No, there are willing speakers. Colleagues, that's not gonna work. Mr. Chubarov came up and asked for the floor, and I think the BPP will give him an opportunity to speak. So Kirilenko's handing Krulka over from Fatherland. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u189	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the committee for having the text that will unite this session hall. And this is certainly the right thing for the Ukrainian Parliament to say about how Russia organized and held elections on the occupied Crimea. I have questions for all of us, please tell me, who in the country is responsible for foreign policy, and who is in charge of it? Why is there no statement to this day by the head of state, the President of Ukraine, on this subject, any? Why is there no statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter? You see, all countries either recognize elections, or they don't recognize that in the occupied territories, either the voices of Heads of State or the voices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have spoken. No country has expressed its voice to Parliament, for foreign policy is governed by the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why is the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs silent, and I have this question and it's stuck in the air? And so I demand that there be a clear position on this point as to the fact that we don't have a position of foreign policy in the elections in Russia. And I think that's supposed to be the position. And today we should be able to support Parliament's statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the grounds that Ukraine does not recognise elections in the occupied Crimea. That's what Parliament's decision is supposed to be today, and we're going to have to make our own statements, and that's not right, I think. And we will certainly vote on that statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u190	Now, from the People's Front, Grandmaster Mikola gives the floor to Maxim Burbak, please, Mr. Maxim. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm giving Maxim Burbak a full performance after that. Please. It's not gonna be a minute, it's gonna be a full performance. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I wanted a degree of tension to be reduced in this session room, and so that we could all take a compromise decision that was registered by the profile committee and finally give a powerful signal. First of all, they're our Ukrainians who didn't go to the election in the temporarily occupied Crimea. They are Ukrainians, they are citizens of Ukraine and Crimea, this is Ukraine. Secondly, it's a powerful signal to the world community that the elections that went illegally to Crimea make the election of the President of Russia illegal. And the next is that it will enable us to consolidate the legal requirement that we will submit to all international courts. That after we win this war in the aggressor countries, we will pay for all the material damage that was done during the illegal occupation of Crimea and Donbas. But most importantly, we found a compromise between the decision that was registered with the People's Front and the decision that was registered with Peter Prashenko's Block. It is important for us today to decide that our Parliament should make a political statement and condemn the illegal elections in the temporarily occupied territory. But for me, for the People's Front faction, the election of the President of Russia that took place in Crimea makes them illegal throughout Russia. It's an open public position for the People's Front faction. So once again, I invite everyone to vote and give a clear signal to our citizens in the temporarily occupied territory and to our Western partners that Crimea is Ukraine. Donbas is Ukraine. And we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u192	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Irina Lucenka is invited. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'm talking to the "Fatherland" faction, which has spread false information here. Six hours after the election, that's 19, the President of Ukraine declared immediately what he believed on behalf of Ukraine, the elections in the occupied territory of Ukraine are illegal, that all of these elections and decisions are "fiber letters" that only the Ukrainian President can choose in Crimea. He said that this violation by Russia undermines any international agreement and any international standards. He thanked the countries of the European Union, the countries of the world, the United States and all other countries that did not recognize elections for the temporarily annexed Crimea by legitimate elections of the President of Russia. It was we, as Parliament should have registered on the first day, on the first day to vote and say. But I have a question to ask you before the Fatherland faction: where is your leader? Why doesn't she vote? Why isn't she supporting her now? Where is she? Why didn't she vote for Savchenko? To blame is easier, let us press the green button and express our position from Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u194	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk gives the floor to Chubarov. Thank you very much. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday and today, news tapes are again filled with reports of arrests and searches in Crimean Tatar homes. So this morning, the FSB arrested Nariman Mamedinov, the father of three underage children, a public activist, a blogger who highlights repression and persecution against the Crimean Tatars by the invaders. Dear colleagues, the holding of the illegal elections of the President of Russia in the Ukrainian Crimea, the holding of these elections is a challenge, in fact, no less dangerous to the world than Russia's military invasion of Ukrainian land, and it is clear that the expansion of these elections, the illegal holding of them in the Ukrainian Crimea Putin, has already proved to be an illegal president. I'm very sorry that one version of the draft application was withdrawn, and I was willing to vote for it. But now there's a consistent option, and I'm just going to have to support him. But what I'm saying is that this trend that is now going into the world to put an embargo on Russian oil and gas as quickly as possible in order to shut down the SWIFT banking system in order to insist that Putin is fully isolated is our priority. And if we're all, Parliament, President, around this statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, we're all going to go this way to completely isolate Putin, I think that's the kind of warning that we can support this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u196	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing act. From Self-Help, Taras Shepherd. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room, and in two minutes, there will be a vote on an extremely important and fundamental issue. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, it's obvious that the Self-Help faction will support this statement, although I'm at all doubtful that this number of deputies. who remains in the voting room will be able to approve her. But I have the next question, you all remember, when we had our first, second year of war, when our boys and girls for hundreds of thousands of years began to kill the Russian plague, Europe, the world expressed concern. We fought and asked them to take concrete action, not just sanctions, but to help Ukraine directly by providing weapons, by providing other assistance. Finally, Europe and the world realized that the Russian plague in Ukraine would not stop, and it is already far away in Europe. And they've already seen the United States that she's there. But instead of just supporting the same kind of radical action by the Ukrainian Parliament to date, it has also taken appropriate steps towards Russia, not just by taking decisions on recognition or non-recognition of Russia, but by introducing the same financial sanctions into the Russian business, has begun to impose the same sanctions on Russian diplomats, sending them out of Ukraine, and has, accordingly, taken the steps that every Ukrainian who has lost today as non-native, close friends has taken. But instead, today we're taking decisions, saying that we're worried about it. If today the highest body in the legislature – Parliament – takes such a decision, the next steps should be taken. They must become compulsory for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to denounce agreements on friendship and cooperation with Russia. This decision should also be the subject of action for the President of Ukraine. Can he, after the condemnation he has expressed today, and the Ukrainian Parliament support the non-recognition of the results in Crimea, communicate with the illegitimate president of the Russian Federation? In our opinion, obviously not. And if we don't have this principled position, these decisions of ours, they will continue to be political. The people of Ukraine demand concrete action and concrete action from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. So we're moving on to making a decision. I would like to stress that the most important task and the first task is to express a political position. I'm sure colleagues that Ukrainian citizens will be watching everyone's vote, so please come into the hall. This is a question that will have a great social resonance, and so I ask everyone to invite the deputies into the hall and all of the government's beds to come into the hall, to prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding Ukraine's non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (No.8168-1). The committee's proposal is on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Careful, every voice. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[14:08:55]] For 255 It's been decided. Welcome to the Ukrainian Parliament with a principled position. And what I'm saying is, we had work to do before lunch, but after lunch, we have an extremely important day-to-day issue. So I'm asking everyone to come to the continuing room at 4:00. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
