ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u1	I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please prepare for registration. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:05:10]] 355 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague and national deputy of Natalia Volodymyrovna Katzer-Buchovsky. Hello. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that yesterday we started the consideration of the National Police Disciplinary Statute Act, and the first question is that we are finalizing this issue. By the way, I'm asking the committee representative and the right-holders to prepare for the discussion. And after I've announced, we're moving on to the issue of consenting to criminal liability, arresting and arresting Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to get ready for work. We are moving on to the draft Law on the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute (4670). And I would like to invite a representative of the committee in charge of law enforcement, Michael Palamarczuk. And I want to remind you that we're done on the right hand side. We're at 133. This is Dmitrenka's paper. So who's going to take 133? 133 law. So if we don't have an editor, we move on. And I'm going to call it editing. 134th. Don't insist. 135th. Don't insist. 136 doesn't insist. 137th. Don't insist. 138th. Don't insist. 141th. Don't insist. 143rd. Don't insist. 146th. Don't insist. 147th. Don't insist. 150th, Cooper. Don't insist. 156th. Don't insist. 157th. Don't insist. 158th. Don't insist. 160th. Don't insist. 161. Don't insist. 162nd. Don't insist. 168th. Don't insist. What's that? 169th, Romanowski. Romanowski, 169th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u2	Amendment 159. Alexander Romanowski, People's Front faction. Amendment 159 refers to the removal of a police officer. It is proposed that article 17 be completed as follows: “Police officers who are removed from duty continue to serve under the law in accordance with temporary professional duties determined by the head of the relevant authority, institution or institution of the police.” Please bet on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u3	Mr. Mikolo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u4	The amendment is rejected by the committee. So I suggest you put her on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u5	Thank you. But the author insists on voting. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 169th Romanovsky People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:10:31]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 170th. Don't insist. 171. Don't insist. 175th. Don't insist. 178th. Don't insist. 179th. Don't insist. 182nd. Don't insist. 186. Don't insist. 194th. Don't insist. 195th. Don't insist. 196. Don't insist. 197th. Don't insist. 198. Don't insist. Colleagues, there's still a few rights left. That's why I'm asking all the committee heads to invite the deputies into the hall. Please inform the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that in five minutes we will proceed to the vote. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. 206th. Don't insist. 207th. Don't insist. 210th. Don't insist. 211th. Don't insist. 212th. Don't insist. 213. Don't insist. 214th. Don't insist. 215th. Don't insist. 216th. Don't insist. 217th. Don't insist. 218th. Don't insist. And the latest revisions. 220th. Don't insist. And 221. Don't insist. And the 223th final line. The author does not insist. And so, colleagues, we've completed our discussion of the draft law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for the report, for working actively in the hall. I will now give three minutes to the head of the committee of Kozemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Three minutes is enough, all right? And I would like to emphasize to you that in three minutes there will be a decision-making process. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and take jobs. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize as many deputies as possible to vote, to make a decision. So, for the conclusion of the day, I invite the chairman of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to the rostrum. And once again, I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. I see not all factions are in the hall. Colleagues, please communicate. In particular, I ask the authors and the copyright team, call back and find those colleagues who are not in the hall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not wait. Please take three minutes Andriy Anatoliyovich and invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Once again, I am grateful to the leadership of the Supreme Council that we continue to consider the subject of law in Parliament today. And this bill of 4670 on the National Police Disciplinary Statute, which was just reported by the first deputy chairman of the committee of Mikola Palamarczuk, is presented by the committee for re-reading. I repeat that this project proposes the approval of the National Police Disciplinary Statute, which sets out the reasons for the order in which police are brought to disciplinary responsibility, as well as the application of police incentives. I would like to remind you that this bill was submitted for re-reading on December 21, 2017. All the amendments that have been made and have just been discussed have been given a clear answer by a representative of the Committee on Rejection or Accounting. I want to say that every military system, every military law enforcement body should live by its laws, as it lives by its laws, every political party, every political faction that is here, in the hall. That is, the statutes, the rules, the principles that they are united by and the principles that they exist under. That's exactly how the National Police is needed, which we've all created together here, and we've rejoiced that in the end, the IMF reform is going on, and it needs this disciplinary charter to be the basis and order for the police to be involved in disciplinary responsibility, and they could also encourage those police officers who are doing their job with integrity and dignity. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask you to support this long-awaited bill for the National Police and to vote it out as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u7	So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs, leave your beds, we're moving on to making decisions. You're ready, aren't you? Let's go. So, colleagues, we've done a hard but productive job, and I'm sure we can now make a positive decision. But every voice is important, so I ask you to take up jobs, an important discipline in the hall, please leave your beds and take your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (No. 4670) for a second reading committee, for a second reading, for a second reading and for a whole of technical law. Please vote and please support, colleagues, every vote. Please carefully take part in the vote – 4670 in the second reading and in general. Ten seconds to take up jobs. There are so many deputies in the hall, soon there will be no seats available. We'll deliver the chairs. You're ready, aren't you? 4670 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:20:18]] For 251 Decision taken. The law is passed. And, colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of order of the day, which is probably the most important thing for us today. It's the Decision Project. a project to grant consent to criminal liability, detention and arrest of Ukrainian National Deputy Bakulin Eugen Mikolaiovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention or arrest of a national MP. On February 19, 2018, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of Mr. Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, to consent to the criminalization, detention and arrest of National Deputy Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich. The Attorney General’s Office has conducted a preliminary investigation and a criminal investigation since 31.03. In 2013, according to the signs of criminal offences envisaged in part one of the first article 225 “Creating a Criminal Organization”, part five of the first article, “Owning, Disposal or Seizure of Property”, part four of article 28, part one of the first article, “Service Counterfeiting”, part four of article 28, part three of the third article, “Legalization, Laundering of the Proceeds of Crime” and other articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. According to a case study by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Bakulin Evgen Mikolaiovich was found to have participated in the criminal organization and to commit crimes against property in the field of service activities committed by such an organization between March 2010 and February 14. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 12 March, with the participation of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, reviewed the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich. The findings of the committee, the explanation of the Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina and the marked submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were given to you on the desks of registration in paper copies. And now, honourable national deputies, the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, for answers to questions raised by members of the MP factions and groups, Ukrainian national deputies. Yuri Vitaliyovich, 5 minutes, 10 minutes, questions. Is that how it works? So five minutes -- a speech and 10 minutes -- questions from national MPs, factions and groups. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, today I am calling on Parliament to submit its consent to criminal responsibility, to agree to a precautionary action, and to give consent to the detention of Ukrainian national MP Bakulin Yevgen Mikolaiovich. As we know, this is not the first attempt to evaluate Mr. Bakulin's actions in the Naftogazu post. In 2014, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine broke the case and even detained Bakulina. The court gave him a mortgage of about 10 million dollars, yet later he did. The case was closed, Bakulin became a national deputy, and after that he did not appear in Ukraine for a long time. However, since my arrival as Attorney General, the investigation has been resumed and there has been considerable progress. Today, we have not just set up everything. the entire mechanism of the criminal scheme of cost-sharing on. While purchasing oil platforms, we also know those who participated specifically in the equipment, as well as specific accounts that have been paid about $144 million by criminal means. Then, in my investigative report, the Attorney General considers that Bakulin Evgen Mikolaiovich, in the period since March 2010, probably participated in a criminal organization and committed crimes against property in the field of service activities committed by the organization, in particular jointly and in agreement with other leaders and members of the Janukovic criminal organization, planned and organized a series of particularly serious and related crimes, namely: illegal possession of money by Pat Naftogaz Ukraine, in the amount of 449 million 963 000 820 bracelets and the final seizure of more than 5 billion 100 million dollars. In the second episode of the investigation, Bakulin is believed to have illegally acquired foreign property at a particularly large amount of money, due to the Black Mornaphtogaz Data, amounting to $404 million,374,000,966 in purchases. So the first scheme. Mr. Bakulin, following the plan of Yanukovich, proven to him by Arbuzim, ordered his employees, Naftogazu Ukraine, and BlackMornaftogazu, to arrange a fictitious tender for the purchase of drilling plants at higher prices. Later, in collaboration with a citizen of Latvia, Vasil Melnik, and two other organizers of the conversion center and the organizations of the Ignatchenka and Frolová companies, organized a presentation of some $144 million later in the accounts of the members of the organized criminal group. In the second part of the incriminating crimes, Bakulin Eugene Mikolaiovich decided to recalculate 449 million 963 thousand 820 dollars of 100 percent advance payment for the supply of Kurchenk. For the supply of petrol to the Society with limited responsibility "Gaz Ukraine 2020", controlled by Kurchenka Sergio Vitaliyovich. Later, these funds were listed as a number of companies, controlled by Chicken and used for other purposes. But gas for the needs of Naftogazu Ukraine was never put in. I also report to the National MPs that, following an episode of illegal possession of money from Black Mornaphtogazu, 14 people are suspected, of whom 2 persons have already been convicted of court sentences, 7 have been declared wanted, and 5 suspects are being investigated and prosecuted. According to an episode of the theft of Pat "Naftogaz Ukraine" funds, ten people are suspected of being convicted by the courts. Then I ask the National Deputies to continue the investigation to agree to bring criminal responsibility, detention and the arrest of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u9	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u10	Bakulina agrees with all three applications by the Attorney General of Ukraine. I also explain that Mr. Bakulin's absence in Ukraine is, of course, an obstacle to his physical detention, but it is possible, thanks to your likely consent, to continue to follow up on financial flows, to arrest them, and after a likely sentence of eye or distance confiscation of stolen funds into Ukraine's state budget. Please support all three submissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u11	Thank you. We are now moving on to questions from the national MPs. And I ask, colleagues, to participate in an enrollment for questions from Ukrainian national deputies. Ten minutes is spent in the Rules. Anyone who wishes to ask the Attorney General, please register. Please turn on the entry. Masorina Olena Sergiyevna gives the word Teteruku Andryu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u12	Mr. Attorney-General, as you can see, the Supreme Council is consistently considering and deciding on the removal of parliamentary immunity from the First People's Deputies. But unfortunately, we don't see the final result that our country's parliament is looking for, and society as a whole. There is no referral to the court, and there is no conclusion as to whether the person is guilty or not guilty. And the main thing is that we don't see the punishment of those people from whom we take away the parliamentary immunity. Won't that be the submission we're about to consider and make a decision on it, in turn, with nothing? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u13	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u14	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I mean, only a court and only a court can determine whether a guilty person or an innocent person is guilty. In no way do I claim that the national MPs from whom I ask to remove the MP's inviolability are guilty. However, the status of integrity prevents them from carrying out investigative actions, such as with all other citizens and in court to establish their guilt or innocence. That's why I'm forced to come here by virtue of the constitutional status of the National MP and ask for the removal of immunity in court and then in court to establish the guilt of the respective National Deputies. I want to report that the two national deputies, from whom the MP's immunity has been removed from my initiative on the materials of the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine, namely Dobkin and Novinski, the investigation materials are being completed, we are waiting for the latest expertise, and this year's affairs, we plan to have them brought to trial in the first half, and that's where they will be determined as to the extent of their guilt. The same is true of the submissions I signed from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau regarding the people’s deputies Rosenblatt and Polakov. It is well - known that long - term NAV and SAP have closed down. However, Rosenblatt and Polack’s trial will also be referred to court after the completion of the trial. Such a constitutional order, and I adhere to it strictly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Musei Oleg Stepanovich is invited to attend. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u16	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Lvivščina, Sokal, Czervonograd Please tell me it's very good that you finally filed Bakulina, of course, the Supreme Council, I'm sure, will vote for the attraction. But they have long since fled Ukraine. You know very well that in the present Opposition Block, and in the former Party of Regions, there are still a large number of Bakulinas of such, including the leader of the Boyko faction, the "high" of which you were long ago lying in a safe. And that's what you said, including that the materials are more than enough to hold him responsible. Do you expect Bakulina and the Fighters to escape from Ukraine to then submit to the Supreme Council? Or what now prevents the Attorney General's Office, with all the materials in the safe at three of your predecessors, from making such a submission? Do you have mice in your safe and eat?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. Dear Mr. Musai, as you know, you have a bearing on your health because it's in your head with your memory, decide for yourself, for I have never claimed that I have sufficient evidence to submit to the National Deputy Boyko. I suggest you get in my service car right after I finish my speech and go to my office and personally make sure that there's no safe or workplace, there's never been, and there's never been, and there's never been, a submission to the Boyka People's Deputy. Please leave this myth to the storytellers, but not to the officials of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the national MPs. The other one. I'm also informing you that the investigation, through the institute of the treaty of inquiry, of the signing of two such agreements with Katsuba and Melnik, has received information about specific accounts where members of the criminal organization have directed 144 million stolen funds. All of these accounts are related to specific members of a criminal organization, called Boyko among them, whose accounts are not currently in effect. However, the entrance to the investigation gave us an application for international assistance to the respective countries where the banks with the corresponding accounts are located to track the flow of funds. In case, even if a small amount was transferred from there to accounts involving Mr. Boyko or his subordinates, the submission to the Supreme Council would be prepared in a concise manner. I will act, not on the orders of politicians, but on the evidence obtained in a legitimate way, in all cases. And about the politicians I'm sympathetic to, and about those like Mr. Boyko, whose views I'm not sharing. Thank you and welcome to the car. I guarantee you an exit from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u19	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! The People's Front welcomes your submission to our Hall to remove the MP's in touch with Eugene Bakulin's responsibility. We wanted to ask you a question. Are there other active members of the Supreme Council that you may be able to present and propose to the session room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Once again, in addition to the previous answer, I want to say. I have before me information about the deal made with Vasil Melnik, who. This agreement is approved by a court of law. Which gave us concrete indications that 95 million out of 140 are listed in the accounts of companies that are controlled by Yanukovich and Arbuzov, there are still a list of specific accounts. Also, 25 million U.S. dollars are credited to a company under the control of Bakulina’s daughter. 15 million U.S. dollars are credited to companies owned and headed by the Latvian company Sudnoverfi Melnik. Two million dollars to the deputy head of the Pat "Naftogaz Ukraine" Korniychuku, who is now cooperating with the investigation. Also, other, less significant, cash items are listed by other members of the criminal organization. At present, the name of the working People's Deputy Boyka, who approved the financial plan for Naftogazu Ukraine, and its subsidiaries, is also included in the case. However, direct evidence of criminal intent, even more so, has not been established for him personally or his subordinates. If Ukraine's financial monitoring or our law enforcement partners from the countries concerned provide the necessary information to indicate its corruption interest, I will certainly address the Supreme Council with and on this issue. Once again, I am guided, not by political relevance, but by legally established facts. And the fact is that there is not enough evidence to attract other national deputies, including Mr. Boyk, to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u21	Thank you. And actually the final question. Lucenko Igor Viktorovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u22	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! First, thank you for this submission, very long anticipated, very much talked about it, after all, it happened, it's very positive. We see that the Supreme Council in no way interferes with the law enforcement authorities, does not create this mythical parliamentary integrity, virtually in most cases gives prompt consent to criminal responsibility. And a number of deputies, including Novinsky, in particular, received such, as it were, whites to be investigated by Ukrainian national deputies. Instead, the performance of the law enforcement agencies is very low and one of them, I think, is so great today that this situation with the Long has failed. I remember your personal position on this matter. What do you advise people in general to do with Long? NABU and the prosecutor’s office specialized in this conduct. Why don't we go to court and press charges, please, as Attorney General?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u23	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all the national MPs for their constructive cooperation with the law enforcement authorities on the issue of the removal of parliamentary immunity. I was impressed by the last regulatory committee on which all factions, I emphasize all factions and opposition, and the majority voted in favour of my three submissions on Mr. Bakulin. I think today is about the same picture that will be put to the vote in the Supreme Council Hall, and for that I really thank you, both as the Attorney General, and as a human being. However, I really have to answer the questions not only during the submission but also after it. About Mr. Long. I will not hide what serious pressure I felt during the preparation of the application for it and during further events. However, the decision to close the case was not taken by the NAB and SAP authorities under the control of the Attorney General’s Office. I have no right under the law to influence their decisions or even to obtain information on the basis of such a decision. The law prohibits any study of the activities of NAB and SAP in the course of the investigation and the adoption of appropriate procedural decisions. The other one. At the same time, I, as a person who is convinced that there are signs of wrongdoing during the sad session of Kievrada, which has torn apart thousands of hectares of the capital land at a time, gave an appropriate instruction to the capital prosecutor who has violated a case that will be evaluated not only by one episode, which has been considered in the Supreme Council, but by all events of the so-called session. So - called, because it was hidden from the opposition, so - called, because it did not have a quorum, so - called, because it had a gross forgery and abuse of its official duties and the deputies of the then conquered majority, and the leadership of the Kiev City Council. I'm sure we are sooner or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u24	How much do you add, Mr. Yuri? We're done, aren't we? Then thank you very much, colleagues. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, for the report, the questions. According to the Rules, colleagues, the next one should be given the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Eugene Mikolaiovich. Is Bakulin Eugene Mikolaiovich present in the hall? None. And so I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, if the National MP is not present for the High Council meeting, we are discussing the issue without his oral explanation. His explanations are given to you in paper copies, that is, his absence is no reason for us to stop. And so I invite the next reporter, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, to speak for five minutes. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u25	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on March 12th, the Committee considered three submissions submitted by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich, and the absence of the Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Bakulin. This is a motion for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulin Evgen Mikolaiovich, to allow the detention of National Deputy Bakulin Yevgen Mikolaiovich, and to allow for the election of the National Deputy of Security to be held in custody, under arrest. The evidence indicates that Bakulin Evgen Mikolaiovich participated in a criminal organization and crimes against property and in the field of service between March 2010 and February 2014. In particular, the falsification of documents on the management of PAT's Naftogaz Ukraine in the amount of $404 million,374 thousand,966 and $449 million,963 thousand,820 dollars, and the end-of-involvement attempt on the part of the service person at the expense of PAT "Naftogaz Ukraine" at a particularly large amount of $5 billion,100 million,36,180 dollars. The committee adopted conclusions that the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the National MP Bakulina was sufficient in terms of the legal, motivated, and well-founded material provided. The submission of consent to the detention of the people of Bakulin is legal. Since the evidence collected about Baculin Eugen gives sufficient reason to suspect him of two particularly serious corruption crimes for which a penalty of 7 to 12 years of imprisonment is provided, the suspect is deprived of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a period of up to 3 years and with the confiscation of property that may in itself be the basis for the suspect’s hiding from the judicial authorities. Next. In connection with the amendments to articles 45, 69, 75 of the Criminal Code, Bakulin Eugène Mikolaiovich’s criminal responsibility and conviction for committing a particularly serious corruption crime may be subject solely to punishment in the form of actual deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities involving the confiscation of property. Bakulin Eugene Mikolaiovich is free to go abroad, a long-term residence outside Ukraine, which will make it impossible to carry out investigations and proceedings with him. The application for election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bakulina as a precautionary measure in the form of custody, the arrest, according to the committee, is legal, as it is initiated and submitted by the appropriate subject and is justified by the following. Bakulin Eugene Mikolaiovich may be concealed from pretrial investigation bodies, a court that will make it impossible for investigators, procedural actions and may influence witnesses who possess information about the circumstances of criminal offences, as well as other accomplices of crime who are currently hiding in the territory of the Russian Federation and the Autonomous Republic of Crime in order to induce the latter to refuse to give evidence or to give false testimony in criminal conduct, or to prevent criminal conduct otherwise. Colleagues, you're familiar with the content of the committee's conclusion, its resolution part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Let's move on to the question. And in the discussion of the question, it's meant to be a statement from all the factions and groups. And if factions and groups need to participate in the discussion, please sign up for the speech. So, statements from factions and groups, please record. From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, our faction will no doubt support, as we have always done, the submission of a commitment to responsibility, the consent to arrest. But I am addressing the Attorney General. Regrettably, the episodes that are on display today are not a comprehensive list of episodes that should have long since been untouched and agreed to the arrest of the national deputy Bakulina. First of all, we're surprised that the Attorney General's Office has not investigated the personal involvement of Yanukovich, Azarov and Mr. Bakulin, who led the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine, regarding the so-called 11 billion cubic metres of gas that were in line with the peace treaty signed by Azarov and Bakulin at his commission, and the RosUkreenergo structure devoted to Rosukre Energo. Because the myth of losing Stockholm is a lie. That's 11 billion cubic meters of gas, plus 1 billion -- think about it! Ukraine has paid for this gas, it turns out, not its structure has paid off, but Ukraine has paid another billion. They were handed over to Mr. Firthash's "Rosukreenergo" because Azarov had signed a peace treaty with Firthash, and this was recorded in the Stockholm Arbitration. As a result of this equipment, the State lost its price difference, at which the gas was purchased by Ukraine, 154 miles. I'm sorry, a thousand cubic meters, and they had to pay back when the price of gas was 240. I'm guessing that's almost $1.5 billion! And everyone keeps quiet, makes it look like nothing's happened. The Attorney General won't even report this episode in the session room. Bakulin personally signed the peace covenant at the direction of Prime Minister Azarov. How much did this so - called covenant result in the pockets of these high - ranking men? We ask you to examine these facts (we know that procedural legislation allows this to happen) and to add all of these facts to the matter of Mr. Bakulin. We're voting for these submissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u28	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For the ninth time, this assembly of parliament is present in the procedure of removing the intactness of another national MP. I would like to remind everyone in the Hall that last October this Hall voted to amend the Constitution on the removal of parliamentary immunity as such and was sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion and then to open the way to meet, at last, the requirement of the electorate to virtually all the factions present in the Hall to remove the integrity of the national MPs. Our faction supported this submission, voted in favour. The only condition was that the integrity should be removed from the President, the parliamentarians and the judges together, all of them. Make sure all the levels are before the law. Because that is what our voters require, and virtually everyone in the room promised them. Our faction will not support the vote for removing the inviolability of Mr. Bakulin, just as we did not support the previous submission. Because we think that the problem should be solved radically and with everyone. We must fulfill our responsibility to the electorate. About Mr. Bakulin himself. He wasn't hiding anywhere. He was elected mayoral district in 2014 and worked in the district and parliament until the summer of 2016 until he got sick and went to medical school. So he gave the appropriate written address, and when he appeared in Ukraine, he would answer the Attorney General's Office on all the questions they were referring to him. The decision is yours. And the last. Mr. Speaker, since my last name was in this room, I have the right to repeat it again, and I want to explain it now and now. I never excused myself when a dirty campaign began in the press about me and this case. I gave appropriate explanations to the Attorney General when I was interrogated. I know who was in charge of this case from the people who are now behind the codeon who left the country after the events in Maidan. I know journalists who were hired for this job. I know how much they were paid. I know journalists who do. Until recently, this journalist has claimed to be a moralist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u30	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u31	That's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u32	All right, one minute. It's a replica at the same time. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u33	I know a journalist who had recently tried to become a moral authority in the country, and then I became a figure in a criminal case, and I couldn't explain which of the women surrounding him, he took money to buy his apartment. So I know who was the contractor, who was the contractor. And I gave the D.A. the right explanation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u34	From Peter Poshenka Block to Lechchenko Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Ukraine. Of course, this day has been waiting for many, many years when the truth of the so-called "high Boyka" will be heard in this session hall. And this truth is echoing, and all I can do here is thank Henprosecutor for leading this case to some intermediate final. But, Mr. Henprocuror, there's no master figure here. You point out in the data (page 48) that a quarter of the money that was stolen came from Bakulina’s daughter. I have a question: who was Bakilun to share with him a quarter of the money stolen from these surpluses? He was just a pound, he was just like Kashkin, who was planted by senior associates to run a state enterprise for the sake of his clan. Bakulina was brought to Kiev and put in this chair to sign the papers, he was nothing to get $25 million for his daughter. Of course, he got this money for another figure, who recently, literally a few minutes ago, was standing on this stand. Because it was this figure as the leader of Mr. Bakulina who had all the powers to either stop or speed up the purchase of these drilling plants. In this situation, by the way, it's an interesting other question. Now, you're saying there's no more filing for Mr. Boyke. And I'm saying that the Attorney General's Office for Investigations, Adrian Lupo, was filed with Mr. Shokin in 2015 about Boyk's involvement in the Kurchenk's gas spills. This submission Mr. Shokin didn't bring to Parliament, it was dust until you became a Henprocuror. I sent you this recopy to get to know you and still submit it on your signature, because Boyka's role was proven, he, as the investigator Lupa then defined, appointed him as a member of the Kurchenka criminal organization, I mean Boyka, and he contributed to the kidnapping of this money by the schemes of the creaked gas. But you're saying that you don't have that application in the D.A.'s office. If you don't have it, I gave it to you myself last time in the rostrum, which, I repeat, almost three years ago, Detective Adrian Lupu prepared for Henprocuror Shokin. So in this situation, of course, if you can't prove Boyko's involvement in getting the money from Bakulin, do a gas injection that was prepared almost three years ago. And the last half-minutes, I want to thank the investigative journalists who are now working on Radio Freedom for not being afraid of this scheme in Yanukovic's time, to go to Latvia, to find these risky bogeys who signed documents on the theft of hundreds of millions of Ukrainian government money. This affair has been exposed to them, and today we have an application that I hope will not only stop at Mr. Bakulina, but will go on to other figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u36	Thank you. From the People's Front, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! The position of the People's Front faction is simple, understandable and consistent. We will vote in favour of removing the MP's in touch with the National Deputy of Bakulina. We have done this before from other national deputies for the sole purpose that all who allow themselves to steal money from the country's budget exceed their authority to kleptocratically receive fabulous sums, they have to sit in prison. When we were assigned to this session hall by Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, he promised us that most of the regions would sit in prison and have enough evidence to do so. We are in pain for every submission to be effectively considered in court, and it is fair, honest, understandable to society as a whole, which would testify that for the first time in the history of our country, Parliament does not protect the circle of money thieves, but allows the investigation to be conducted, contributes in every way possible, and does not allow the creation of similar schemes that existed in the days of Yanukovich, when the sole purpose of the coming to power was to rob the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state. Our vote today will first testify that the People's Front has consistently taken a position, as we voted in favour of the constitutional changes for the removal of parliamentary integrity, and so today we will confirm that it is a consistent political force that is working hard to ensure that Ukraine takes place as a legal state, as an example of what political power should be and how to protect all the values that we have brought here from the front line, from our Maidan. That's why we expect the investigation to end with a court case and the responsibility of that official who allowed himself to steal billions and hundreds of millions of dollars for the benefit of the Yanukovic family, who are now hiding in Russia as an aggressor country. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. And please, the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the floor. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u39	Yuri Vitaliyovich, you forgot your folder. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of bringing the Attorney General to justice, agreeing to arrest and arrest the National Deputy Bakulina. The figures that the Attorney General has just heard from the parliamentary rostrum are impressive. The daughters, the sons, the pound, or whatever, it doesn't matter to anyone. But when tens of millions of dollars are counted into offshore accounts, in one contract only, and then they go and tell Ukrainians that we don't have money and that we're poor and unhappy, and that we need to take loans from the International Monetary Fund. We're not poor, we're not miserable. We're fools that let us be fooled by Ukrainians. They're stealing tens of billions of dollars, and we're getting our ears tickled by the need for loans, and instead of loans, they're selling land, increasing retirement age, exporting cheap labor and cheap raw materials. That's the policy they're offering: for themselves, and for the Ukrainians, poverty and poverty. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have your address, I have written it in writing, and I am now officially addressing you again. On March 6th, I think it was a huge affair with the sale at the so-called 4G frequency tender. They were sold for 5.5 billion dollars. For comparison, in 2010, under the government of Yatsenuk, 3G frequencies were sold for 10 billion dollars. We've calculated that as a result of a 15-fold drop in the starting price of these frequencies and then the lack of a real tender to the government budget as a minimum did not reach half a billion dollars. So these 4G frequencies could be sold for a billion dollars and sold five times cheaper. Similar frequencies in Turkey, Egypt, were sold for $5,8 billion in Thailand. We have 200 million. Five times the price that the Ukrainians could have received was simply stolen. I suspect it's going to be the same way that before the tender they transferred money into offshore accounts and there's going to be a similar scheme that you just talked about here, in a surplus scheme, when tens, hundreds of millions of dollars went into private offshore accounts. So I'm saying that selling 4G frequency is stealing from Ukrainians. I'm asking you as the Attorney General to violate criminal conduct, to cancel if you have the possibility or to apply to those who have the right, to cancel the 4G sales order and to resell it. And a billion dollars should go to the government budget for Ukrainians, not in the pockets of corrupts and their offshore accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u40	Please welcome Yegor Sobolev from Self-Help. Let me ask you, colleagues, this is the last speech in this block. Are there still groups and factions that have not been signed up for discussion? They're all here. The last speech, then the MPs, then the other MPs. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u41	"self-help," as always, will vote in favour of withdrawing the MP's immunity. Like colleagues, we want to draw attention to the fact that this Attorney-General has not brought to justice any case, the right to investigate what we have given him as a parliament. I want to say more. Because both this and the three previous general prosecutors failed to do their job, they failed to prove the legal responsibility of the Yanukovic family for the theft of the state. Today, according to the Anti-Corruption Centre, nearly half of Yanukovic’s people in the European Union have been forced to withdraw sanctions because Ukrainian justice has not done its job. You remember last week the news that Sergey Kluviv won the trial because of the bad work of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office of the decision to delete his name from the European Union sanctions list. The same was true of Olena Lukash, with Johnishten, with Kalinin, with Azar, with Jakimenek, with Bogotyr, with Yanukovich (the younger) and with Portnov. I think that by adopting this decision, and it's very good that there are votes in Parliament today, it's important to move on. It is important to make an anticorruption court that will pass judgment on such matters. It is important to make a decision to abolish parliamentary immunity and it is important to appoint an independent Attorney General, otherwise there will be no action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we've run out of speeches from MPs and factions. Now, according to the Rules, there are speeches by Ukrainian national deputies, and we have 15 minutes for these speeches. I ask you to sign up, please, for all those who wish to express their position. And then the Attorney-General similarly asks for another closing statement, we'll give that opportunity to speak. Mrs. Parrishko. Monsieur, please. National MP Moseschuk, please. I'm sorry, it's written down. Dear Mr. Igor, it's written: Mrs. Armor and then you. Do you take six minutes? Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u43	The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Dear Ukrainian people! Our faction will unanimously support the submission made by the Attorney General. But right now, I would like to focus on what's going on in parallel to the Parliament meeting. That is, just before the Ukrainian national deputy Nadia Savchenko accused the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Andria Parubia, of bringing snipers to the hotel "Ukraine". Just now, the national deputy Saucenko accused Attorney General Yuri Lucenk of calling for Yanukovic's power to be lifted and a coup d'état. I understand that this is a human defense system. But I have a question for you. And for the first time in a year, there's a draft Order calling on Hope Savechenko of the National Security and Defence Committee. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška demands that this decree be put to the vote without delay. This is a draft decision because a person has access to questions. They support colleagues from the People's Front and others. And this is a matter that needs to be resolved immediately. Likewise, with the opportunity, I would like to ask the Attorney General what the question is. On the Committee yesterday, the Attorney General said that if Nadia Saucenko did not appear for questioning, the application would be filed. I understand that the application will be made if there is a reason for it to appear or not. So I have a question: Is there any reason for his introduction? That's two. And third, most importantly. We all need to realize what time we are living and working in Parliament. Tonight, 18 people were detained on Zacarpatta. And so I take it, detention continues, preparing the pogroms of Hungarian minorities, the gypsy minorities, for a purpose. When celebrating the anniversary of the creation of the Carpathian Ukraine, create provocation, create. To argue with Hungarian partners, plus Ruban's case. When it comes to the preparation of a terrorist act against the Ukrainian Parliament, plus the attempts of the Feesby Agency to recruit Ukrainians, including Ukrainian national deputies, all of these are huge challenges for the nation and the state. We need to realize that the nation and the state are now standing above the gulf just as they were 100 years ago, and not only the Moscow lice, but also the Ukrainian ferrets are working to destroy the state and put the nation back on the background of the Moscow hordes into occupation. We will support the application that the Attorney General has made. But I would like to hear the answers to questions about the threat of national security in the middle of the country from the aggressor country, from Russian terrorists. And I'm also taking this opportunity to look to the leadership of Parliament, to the leadership of the state. Let's finally raise the question in the world that Russia is a terrorist country that Putin is a tyrant. Let's see what Britain did yesterday. We have a fourth year of war, we can't decide whether to let them vote here for the President of the Russian Federation to hold or not, and the British have decided one day to send Russian diplomats to visit official measures in the Russian Federation. So let's take a hard stand, we don't have two people, citizens are poisoned, and tens of thousands are killed and mutilated. And the position has to be one -- there can't be diplomatic relations with the aggressor country, with the terrorist country, with a country that is fully responsible for the killing of Ukrainian citizens, including in peace territory, for provoking conflicts in the western border. Yesterday's attempt to undermine the cemetery of the Eaglet on Lichakovsky Cemetery is also an attempt to quarrel Ukraine with Poland. So I call on everyone to fight, to fight for Ukrainian national interests, to fight hard and uncompromising. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u44	Next talk, please, from. People's Deputy Gopko. It'll come out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I will, of course, vote in favour of agreeing to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of a national MP. But we were at the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to discuss why the EU sanctions list against the Janukovic community has been cut short. Could the Attorney General listen to the question, not during the speech?Oh, my God! Mr. Yuri, can I have your attention for a minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I ask that the Attorney General be able to listen to the speeches now. Dear colleagues, and then you will be able to communicate because questions are being asked by the Attorney General, who will then be answered during his closing statement. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u47	Thank you. Mr. Jury, we have at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, unfortunately you have not been able to participate, we have discussed why the European Union sanctions list against Yanukovich's people has decreased so much, and why Sergey Klavov, Olena Lukash, fell out of there. And unfortunately, your representative has not been able to answer a number of important questions. The first was whether or not the H.I.P. initiated a stealth investigation, the Sergey Clovis case, and whether or not there was a blind investigation into Johnishtenck or not. Also another question is whether the Gazometer Center in Vienna has been arrested, which is linked to Sergey Clovis, as well as to his wife. And I also wanted you to come personally to the committee next time and to be able to submit to the committee information materials relating to that list of representatives of the Janukovich regime that are being investigated by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Because we hear very often from the GPU that, in fact, the European Union is guilty of withdrawing sanctions and from our Western partners that the Attorney-General's Office does not provide enough evidence to allow these sanctions to be strengthened and continued. And so is the question. Are assets frozen inside the country and abroad? How do you cooperate with the Yanukovic regime's people? Nor did this answer come from our committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko, you are given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u49	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Of course, the People’s Movement will support these submissions. And in this part, I want to thank the Attorney General for the work that's going on. We see it sinking in the courts. And certainly we need to create an anti-corruption court. And in this part of the last visual evidence was Truhanov's case. Unfortunately, we don't see Mr. Truhanov's position from the Attorney General's Office. We see a position from the NABU, from the SAP. We've seen, Yuri Vitaliyovich, from you, a performance in Odessa where you said when you burned down my tent that said, "The People's People's Deputies Receive," that, as it is, the receptionist tents say, "The People's People's Deputy" in which two people slept. They lit an inflammatory mixture. It's a shame we forgot that every tent on Maidan was actually written "The People's Deputy's Admission." I would also like to ask you this question, Yuri Vitaliyovich. You worked as advisor to Stépanenko Mikola Leontijovich when you were Minister of Internal Affairs. This is the man who has been investigating the murder of Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola from the very first day. There's Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who also created commissions inside the Movement, and they added a lot of documents. More than a year ago, a parliamentary request came to your name, signed by 301 people's deputies -- I now want to thank everyone -- who signed the factions' heads: Mrs. Timoshenko, Mr. Burbak, Mr. Ljasko, Mr. Jemiliev, Mr. Chubarov, Mr. Shuhevich, and the 301st signature stands with Mr. Parubia, the Speaker of the Supreme Council. For the first time in our lives, we have gathered a constitutional majority demanding to investigate the murder of Chernobyl. And we ask you to punish the perpetrators. I can't do it tonight. I'm not a court of law. But for example, the chief of the DAI Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district then quickly became the general of the BSB and now heads the Zaporez region – Mr. Constantine Brill. I don't know how the career went. Maybe he's so talented and smart. Here's question number two. But we're asking you to punish the perpetrators, the ones who forged the materials that destroyed the evidence that didn't add the expertise. You know, during the exhumation, he accidentally fell off his hands and broke the skull that had traces on it. There's an expert's material where traces of caste mining, four holes in the skull. Now it's destroyed. In the 14th year, the revolution canceled the closure of this criminal case, and for 4 years the investigation is ongoing. A year ago, an investigation was required. I want to thank you, you've performed many times, since you were Minister of the Ministry of State, that there are videos of your performances, that there is evidence that this is a murder, that there is enough of them, that this is a murder, that it is no accident, that it is no accident, that during Yanukovich was fabricated by the same selling courts, just a martial law case. For four years, we've been getting notes about what's going on in the field of expertise, and we don't see any end. If the murder were investigated, the executioners would be punished, there would be no killing of Gongadze, there would be no deaths of Heaven's Hundreds, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u50	Thank you. Many who simply wish to speak will be insulted. Please, the next speech is the national MP, Igor Lapin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We all know the thief has to sit down. Sooner or later, there must be irreparability of punishment. And that's why we went out to Midan because people wanted to have a sense of justice in our country where we live. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I met you when you came to see us at the Idar Battalion, that was in 14. And then you gave your word as an officer and you kept it, and I thank you, that's why I supported your candidacy. But here from this rostrum you once promised me that Mr. Novinski's episode would be in court. I'm waiting. I don't need any promises today, I'm asking you to tell the officer that this is the case that will be brought to a logical conclusion, and not just those who have been heard from the rostrum today will be brought to criminal responsibility. I look forward to your word, and I expect that our citizens will still have a sense of justice. I know we'll support it. The People's Front will unanimously support all the submissions that go to the Supreme Council in order for the thieves to sit. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u52	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, we now have our last speech on the panel of discussions from the Ukrainian National Deputies, and then, summarizing the words of the Attorney General, where he will actually be able to answer the questions that have been said. Please, the German National MP is handing Igor Shurma over to his colleague. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u53	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. No one will argue that the nineth time in Ukraine is the show, the show is called "the capture of the touchiness and the influence of all who can and cannot really be done." Why is this happening? You think the point is that there's some kind of bias with the Attorney General? He's doing it the way he knows how to do it. Why is this happening? Because you, the European Choice Coalition, voted for it. And you are personally responsible for all that is happening today with that show, the first, the second, the third, the fifth and the last. But that's not the problem. You came to political power today in Parliament, to power in executive power thanks to Maidan. The Mayan, where hundreds of people died, including the Celestial 100. Today, tens of thousands of people in eastern Ukraine are killed. They came to blood. And one of the promises of the coalition was that the first thing we're going to do is we're going to get rid of the parliamentary immunity of everyone. It's the third year, you've fooled people, and today you're trying to figure out whether you're a good coalition or not. You are a coalition, all 300 people, I emphasize 300 people. For he that has come out of the coalition, be right to the end, turn away from the positions which you have received in the committees. Each of you is the first deputy, the head of the committee, the head of the subcommittee, to go to people and "on pontoes," sorry for the word, we as committee officials. Came out of the coalition for the day. He quit his job. You don't do all this. And now it's about the main thing. They're looking into Bakulina's case, and they're talking about Savchenko. And you'll be reminded of your flash drives all over Ukraine, "I want to see Savichenko," "The People's Hero"? Would you like to remind yourself of your parking on the border trying to break into the courts? Can you remind me of the pompous encounters you had for her? Can you remind me that you were worried about the hero of Ukraine? Savechenko, who was 10 years ago, is like this today. You took it to the pedestal. And the fact that you're irresponsible about all the personnel issues, and the fact that you're only acting on human emotion, because hundreds of people have gone up for Savchenko, shows that you're irresponsible. This Parliament has exhausted itself. He's exhausted because he didn't keep his basic promise -- to remove the inviolability. And have the will to say that we are retiring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u54	So the discussion is over, colleagues. And according to the Rules, we are now making a statement for the closing word. First, Yuri Vitaliyovich, first Pinzenik, then you're finished. Okay? So first, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Phinehas Paul Vasilovich. There's no need. So, for the final word, I would have to invite the deputy of Ukraine, Bakulin, Eugene Mikolaiovich, but as we've seen, he's not in the hall. And so I invite you to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka of Ukraine, three minutes. And this will be the closing statement, after which we will move on to making a decision. And so, colleagues, I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite all the deputies into the Hall. In three minutes, we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, with your permission, I understand the tension of today, I'd like to ask you 10 minutes, because the MPs have asked a lot of serious questions. With your permission, I'd like to give you a brief reply. First. First word, first answer for the speech of national deputy Sergei Leschchenka. I thank him for the reminder. And it's really my fault. I had to start a thank-you speech for the journalists, and he, including a journalistic investigation into the days of Yanukovic, who not only made it possible to conduct an investigation today, but also made it impossible for him to break in, as it was done, for $144 million at the first facility, so much as they planned to steal from the second. And a journalistic investigation, I'd say heroic back then, wouldn't allow this robbery. That's true. The other one. The truth is, I've ever had an application for Mr. Boyk or anyone else. At Mr. Leschenko's question, which he handed me, indeed, papers that resemble the text of the submission, I received an official reply from the head of the investigator Lupo, the head of the Department of the Garbatuk Investigations, that such submission was not prepared, was not sent, and it does not exist. I think the authority of the coat of arms, at least in yours, Mr. Sergio, is sufficient to believe, if not me, to him. Third. About whether 25 million dollars was Mr. Bakulin's fee or someone else's. That's what you need to remove the int touch from Mr. Bakulin and carry out the follow-up. I can't control my emotions or even my journalistic conjecture. I also have thoughts, but I am guided solely by procedural facts. As soon as our partners in the respective countries say that the funds were, went to other accounts, or were transferred to legal or physical persons associated with other officials, they will be filed. That is how I acted, and I will continue to do so. Next question. Mr. Lachak's question about the 4G contest that was recently held. Yes, yesterday I received a request from the Prime Minister, based on a parliamentary request from the leader of the Radical Party, who questioned the legality of the tender. Indeed, when the tender was prepared, a special examination was carried out with the experts, and the start price of such a tender was quite different, higher, much higher than was established during the tender. However, as far as I'm aware, this is, of course, a further price, paid at auction, exceeded the threshold provided for in this note, and if so, we will hardly find a possible criminal offence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u56	Colleagues, I ask your attention right now, two other speakers who were supposed to have the word "conclusion" refused. And I think it's going to be interesting for everyone, because Yuri Vitaliyovich answers the questions that were said during the presentations, so I'm going to add 7 minutes and the corresponding vote will take place in 7 minutes. Please include Yuri Vitaliovich for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u57	I'm done. Nevertheless, we will really register criminal conduct on this fact and study everything thoroughly. If there are signs that the state budget has not received funds, we will certainly act in accordance with current legislation. I also want to say my position. I also find this to be wrong because the tender did not exclude legal persons with Russian capital from the aggressor country. In this case, I really think about the safety of our officers, soldiers who unfortunately use mobile communications under total control, with likely access from Moscow. It's my principle of political and human position, and I've really not just addressed it orally, but in writing, I've repeatedly addressed the relevant institutions. Mr. Sobolev's questions and then Gopko's list of sanctions. Dear National Deputies, yes, indeed, the sanctions list was formed in 2014 by the then Attorney General. I have to say that it was formed without sufficient evidence. Yeah, we're all, at least I'm sure, very critical of all the figures on this list. But someone, thinking about someone and proving something are different definitions. The other one. You chose the Attorney General Lucenka too late, and the absolute majority of the sanctions list was taken from me. Sorry, it's not my fault. This year, indeed, the sanctions list was reduced to Luke, who was arrested for nothing, so her removal does not change anything. But Mr. Horbatuk was unable to prove her guilt, at least in the indictment. And I love Lukas or I don't love him, from a political point of view, it can't serve as a basis for me. There's no evidence, no arrests were taken, even though there were no charges. The other one. The same is true of Clovis. The criminal figure is Andrew Clovis, and this year the case will go to court. His arrest accounts have not been taken. But his brother, who was only the founder of the enterprise, has no legal basis for declaring at least an indictment. So, unfortunately, we are guided not only by your emotions, but also by legal procedures. Next. I have never, at least, claimed any of the EU's faults. Mrs Hopko, I think the EU is one of our best international partners, so please listen to the Attorney General. The European Union and its institutions are our very important, useful and effective partners. All other statements from the prosecutor's office have been cancelled. Please do not repeat those who, to put it mildly, said something foolish, even if it is a prosecutor. Next. Whether Janukovich’s money is frozen, she asks. I'm reporting, Mrs. Anna. Not only are they frozen, but they're specifically confiscated in the revenue of the state budget. Last year, one and a half billion dollars was transferred to the state budget as a result of 31 court decisions that resulted in a government budget, and this was not only the result of last year’s budget but was completed with a surplus. And these costs, as you know, work for society and the Armed Forces today. Next. About Mr. Mosiyczuk's speech. Mr. Mosiyczuk asks about the Saucenko case. While you and I are looking at three of my submissions today, Mrs. Savchenko has arrived in Ukraine and has given a press conference at the entrance to the Ukrainian Security Service, where she's obviously giving demonstrations right now. I can tell you my position right away. There is undeniable evidence in the investigation that Nadia Savchenko, the Ukrainian national deputy, personally planned, personally recruited, personally gave instructions on how to carry out a terrorist act here in this room, destroying two beds of war with grenades – government and official – with minomets, destroying the dome of the Supreme Council and using machine guns to reach those who survive. We have irrefutable evidence. And that's why today, as Attorney General of Ukraine, I'm going to submit to the Supreme Council a motion to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of the national MP Saucenko. In addition, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to immediately support the draft law that you have long considered, that, after the submission of the Henprocurorate, diplomatic foreign passports of the national deputy are stopped in order for this figure to remain in Ukraine and answer to the Ukrainian court. I would ask you to do so without delay. Today’s Rules dictate five days in response to a national MP. I hope that next Wednesday we will hold a regulatory committee, and the next Thursday the Supreme Council will take a decision against the organizer of the planned terrorist act in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Answering the same question to the honourable deputy Shurma, I will tell you. Mr. Igor Shurma, I and many here are here, and a huge mass of society are protecting and protecting any of Moscow's prisons, and even Nadia Savchenko, all who are sitting in Moscow prisons, regardless of their political, national, religious and any sign, are our people, whom we and you, as a national MP, must protect. But even a freed hostage, even rewarded by a "hero", must obey the laws. The law in this country will be one for all! And for Hope Savchenko, too. But in closing, Mr. Shurma, talk about hundreds of people being killed on Maidan. Yanukovich shot them! They were shot by those in the party you were in! We didn't come for blood! You spilled blood, and we had to stop it when we came to power. Dear fellow Members of Parliament and Opposition, stop using the blood spilled by Yanukovic, Zacharychenk and Yakimenek. I'll let you know that as soon as the process is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u58	One minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u59	As soon as the trial for Januković's treason ends, and the judge recently defined mid-April as a day of debate, which means, by the end of April, the judge is planning to complete the trial, immediately the trial that we have worked hard on will begin, after who gave a criminal order to shoot civilians in Midan – Januković, Zaharchenko, Yakimenko and other people who served the Party of Regions where you had the misfortune. So please forget about this if you have repented and stop talking about someone coming to blood. The heroes of the Celestial 100 have shed blood so that you can today use democracy, the rule of law, justice in our country. As Attorney General, I guaranteed it when I took office, and I will work hard on it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u60	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. [[Noise Nodes]] Let me remind you that there should be three separate votes for each of the charges. Among them will be the granting of criminal responsibility, then the granting of detention consent, and the third vote will be the granting of consent to use precautionary measures in the form of custody. Every three questions I'm going to put to the vote. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. First. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Law on the Rules of Ukraine, I put to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. We'll support it. [[11:39:14]] For 274 Decision taken. Second ballot. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution, I am voting on the question of consent to the detention of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulin Eugen Mikolaiovich. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. I'll hold it. Vote. [[11:39:48]] For 252 Decision taken. And the last vote. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution, I am voting on the question of whether to give consent to the election of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Eugene Mikolaiovich as a precautionary measure in the form of custody. Please vote. Colleagues, please support. These are our commitments and our promises. The law is one for all. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:40:30.]] For 240 Decision taken. Welcome to the House, welcome to the National Deputies, we have demonstrated once again that the Ukrainian Parliament is firm and determined to fight corruption and integrity. And I am announcing to the Attorney General of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of all three submissions. Colleagues, please. So, colleagues, we have now. Attention! Stay where you are, fellows! I'm actually asked by all the factions to consider the 7547 bill that we passed. Colleagues, take your seats, please. I'll do it now. Colleagues, pay attention! There are two suggestions. One of these suggestions is that we now consider filing a committee on the exclusion of the national MP Saucenko from the committee. The second suggestion is that we consider the next issue of order of the day, 7547. Let's define by voting. I'll put in two ratings. First. Who wants us to move on to ruling 5543 on expulsion from the Savachenko Committee? Whoever's behind this, please vote. It's a rating vote. Stay where you are, colleagues. So we're voting, who's in? Please be supportive. And the next one is 7547. [[11:42:18]] For 239. And the next. Who wants us to move on to question 7547, which is next in line? Please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:46]] For 196 So the hall is defined. And I would like to inform you that I have been approached by the Security and Defence Committee on the proposal that they accepted at the committee meeting on the expulsion of Saucenco from the committee. Regulation 5543 was prepared for this purpose. And now I want to announce that I can ask this question without being included in the agenda of the session. It's a personnel issue, it's a question that doesn't need to be included. And I'm sure we can look at it quickly and effectively. So we're moving on to Project Regulation 5543. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:43:54]] For 209 Colleagues, if we work effectively, we'll be able to make it to 7547. Let's mobilize, we'll make it across. So I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! We started the review of Decree 5543, which was still signed and aimed at the consideration of our Parliament in the 16th year. It refers to the expulsion from the ranks of the Committee on National Security and Defence of the National MP Savechenko, who in a number of his actions, statements, conducts did not fully support the high status of the National Deputy and tried to legalize the terrorist groups "LNR", "DNR" with personal contacts, statements, the introduction of them into the information space as not committing serious and particularly serious crimes in the territory of our State. Her conduct was not intended to protect our country’s sovereignty and security. Unfortunately, we were dealing with consistent ideological support solely for the Kremlin, for which it was very well prepared. And as we remember, in the 14th year, her statement, the only conscious statement she made, in my opinion, was a request not to let her break. But then the successive position of the Kremlin's announcement, the destruction of society, led to the fact that the Committee on Safety and Defence had stopped taking a serious body that worked in a consolidated way to strengthen the security sector. I'm sure the behavior that is now being demonstrated by the National MP Saucenko strongly supports the position that we saw and insisted on in the 16th year, namely to exclude her from the ranks of our committee. No shame in making mistakes, no shame in correcting their consequences. And now it's time to correct that mistake. We must vote in favour of excluding Hope Savchenko from the benches of the committee and not allow her to be disgraced by the high rank of the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u62	20 seconds, complete. 20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u63	We have to stop the process that makes Nadia Savchenko a personal behavior and disgraces the high title of the national MP who works in the area of security. We have to vote in favour of excluding Hope Savchenko from the ranks of the National Security and Defence Committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I would like to consult you now because we have a very important bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving criminal justice. And that's the law that we're looking for, including the prosecution, so we don't stop investigating. Now. We may take this decision without discussion, but the representatives of the regulatory committee have just come forward. Dear Mr. John, John Krulko, I'm talking about your position. And the representatives of the regulatory committee say the following is that the committee is the seat of the deputy. So I cannot ask this question without discussion. Let's take one minute, if we can, exchange our thoughts and get to the vote so we can get to lunch. Yeah. Now. Yes, it is. We'll discuss it later. And so that we can still vote on this important bill for the improvement of criminal justice before the break. Two minutes, please, a representative of the regulatory committee, a regulatory committee, and then we'll exchange factions for, against, we'll make decisions. Please give Paul Pinzenic your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u65	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! On January 18, 2017, we discussed the draft of this Order amending the Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Head Responsibilities, Secretarys of the Committees, by the National Deputies, Marez Jurij Mikolajovich, Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich and others, under registration number 5543. The project proposes to exclude National Deputy Savchenko Nadia Viktorovna from the National Security and Defence Committee and to relieve her of her duties as a member of the committee. According to article 7, paragraph 2, of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the personal composition of the committee may be altered as a result of, inter alia, the resignation of a member of the committee. However, the grounds for the appeal of a member of the committee are not established by legislation; instead, there is the resignation of the head, the first deputy, the deputy head, the secretary of the committee for some reason, in connection with the lack of sufficient work, as a result of other circumstances that make it impossible for the committee to perform its duties. According to the above - mentioned subjects, who may raise questions about the withdrawal of a national MP from the respective position, there is a national deputy elected to the committee, a committee to which the national deputy is elected, and a head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider recalling the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko, from the National Security and Defence Committee on its own application or at the suggestion of the Committee or the Head of the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for registration number 5543. I'm informing you that the National Security and Defence Committee on January 18, 17th, also reviewed the draft decree and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of this draft decision to be taken as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, we have heard an explanation from the regulatory committee that states that such a rule and such a right in Parliament is about voting for a committee decision that was appropriate. Is there a need to discuss what has been heard? No, it's not. Yes. Yes, I heard. I'm asking. Please sign in. The only thing you won't mind is if we exchange our thoughts for a minute? You won't. Please register with factions, but in a minute, not two. Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u67	People's Front will vote in favour. I call on everyone, because once again I repeat, don't be ashamed to make mistakes, you have to learn to correct them. And even the political power that brought Nadia Savchenko into parliament was unable to tolerate the lie and the conduct of their colleague with whom they entered parliament. They could not just tolerate such a powerful competitor and beat her out of political power. So we have to make this choice and not let Hope Savechenko work with the Committee on Safety and Defence. And according to the statements and behavior she makes, she doesn't belong in the Ukrainian Parliament at all. Gradually, we need to correct all our mistakes. We vote "yes" and we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u68	Next performance, please from "self-help" Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u69	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, we obviously support this decision. But I would like to remind everyone that when the National Security and Defence Committee considered this issue, our colleague, Andriy Levus, was asked to add to this decision also the national MP, Ljovczyn, whose role is also evident in the events in Maidan, whose role is also evident in the events that we have today in the eastern part of our country. Therefore, we believe that such a national MP cannot be on a committee that deals with matters of national security and defence. Yesterday the committee reviewed this issue again, and Mr. Ljovczyn's last name was raised, and we insist that this last name is also in this decree, and that we consider them at the same time. Therefore, we suggest that we vote separately for the draft decree and then vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u70	Please give the next speech, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u72	Please, Santa's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I find it very surprising that such an important issue is again being dealt with with with by breaking the rules. I don't understand why I have to speak for a minute, not two. I also don't understand why you're expelling a member of the committee, Hero of Ukraine, to whom you spoke before the President to give her this important title. I do not understand why her important statements made today by Mrs. Savichenko regarding the actions that have been taken by senior officials in our country have not been considered in this room. I believe there is another attempt at political pressure today, as was now the case against our colleague Mr. Bakulin, you are now trying to do the same with Mrs. Sauchenko. It's a definite pressure on the opposition and violation of all the standards of work in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u74	I, the only one, would like to draw your attention to you, Mr. Skork, that I, as chairman, have turned to the faction, asked if you would mind. If you said no, I'll give you a minute, I didn't hear your "no." Please. But you will also accept, please, that there have been no violations of your rights. Please give me a minute. It didn't take more than a minute to say. Please, Mustafa Najem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! We're on the Supreme Council right now. Mr. Andrew, as Head of the Supreme Council, I am simply addressing you and all of our colleagues. Listen. We don't have the heads of the Committee on Ecology, Anti-Corruption Court, Education, Agrarian Policy, Euro-Integration, Banking and Privatization Commission in the Supreme Council right now, we haven't been able to look at these personnel issues for three years. Can we set it up? That's what everyone needs. I understand that Savechenko is now very important, but we can put these personnel issues of transition and appointment of our colleagues on the committee. The committees have been without heads for more than two years. If we're talking about personnel issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. Listen to me carefully, listen carefully to me, colleagues. I'll tell you, we can ask a lot of questions, but the answer to that question is whether there are voices in the room below. By this decree, the National Security and Defence Committee has been asking me, as Head of the Supreme Council, for about six months now, to ask this question. Yesterday the committee unanimously addressed me, and this decree has been in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for six months. There is no surprise, it is the position of a committee that is legally justified. And I don't think this question is important enough to take that much time. We have the next bill 7547, so I have a request to the entire room, so let's quickly vote and go into 7547. And that's going to be the right position. We ask those questions that have voices, those that may pass in the hall. And let's work effectively, and we'll be able to make more friends. So let's go to the vote. Please take up your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, First Deputys and Secretaries and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.5543), which is a requirement of a committee of profile, based on and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:57:32]] For 261 Decision taken. It's been decided. Now I have a call to the profile committee, or are we going to 7547? So we're going into the next draft of Law 7547. And, colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, we'll be able to look into it. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm going to put the vote first. Who is it that we are now going to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on criminal justice (7547). Everyone, please take your jobs. Please come into the hall. Did everyone understand the offer? Who's to say we're about to go over this bill? You got it, right? Do you understand the position? So I would like to support the proposal that we now move on to draft Law 7547. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:59:18]] For a hundred and I'll do it again. Colleagues, and once again, who's for us to now go to Bill 7547. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:59:46]] For-195 There are not enough votes. And, colleagues, now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. In 30 minutes. Not after. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, the Fatherland faction and the will of the people call for a statement to be read for recess. And that's why I'm giving the floor to the speech, and after the speech, I'm calling it a break. Please, 3 minutes Ivchenko. And then I'll call it a night. Please, Yvchenka. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u77	Thank you. We'll all wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, don't split up, please. Let us treat with respect our colleagues who want to make a statement. I beg of you, let us honor each other. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I apologize. You know, we went to this rostrum, there were almost all the factions of Parliament. You remember on December 7th we took changes to the Tax Code and this 180, which actually makes a zero VAT rate for oil crops, and especially the soy, which was crushed by the Self-Help faction, it was stretched out. This has been extended, and as a result, today eight areas are conducting their strikes, covering major agrarian highways, and this is just the beginning. I want to remind you that the approximate structure of these crops is almost 60 percent. I want to remind you that the contracts are ready. And I want to remind you that this is actually going to drop the price by 20 percent in traders, and of course that's going to drop the price in the farmer. I would like to remind you that the agrarian committee and the 22 deputies signed an appeal so that we can immediately adopt Law 7403-2, which effectively terminates for a year and a half the introduction of these rules, which were voted out in the Tax Code. I want to say that there are MPs here today who want to say that this is just the beginning. If on Tuesday, Andri Volodymyrovich, if you don't report to the Conciliation Council on Monday, and if we don't put Law 7403-2 to the vote, and each of you won't give an assessment of your vote, and I think that this should be a positive vote to cancel these changes to the Tax Code, we'll be more radical, including agrarians coming to Kiev, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we urge colleagues: (a) to support this bill. For those of you who want to know, we're ready for all the agrarian committees to explain. You see here both the head of the agrarian committee and the faction leaders and all those who touch the agrarian complex. We are willing to work with everyone to make a positive decision on Tuesday under Law 7403. Once again, in the Kirovograd region, Cherkaske, Hersonsky, Chernigovsky, Vinnitsky, Ravenski, Hmielnicki and Poltavski regions of agriculture, the main highways have been blocked. It's a warning action. The continuation of this action will take place on March 20th, and we will all be with you here insisting that this law be put into the order of the day and a positive vote. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u80	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm calling a break of 30 minutes, until 12:35. At 12:35, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, request to return to the meeting room from the towers. We'll resume our session in a few minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u82	Hence, respectable colleagues, the time taken for a break, is exhausted. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day. I'd like to remind you, colleagues, that we have a cluster of personnel issues under consideration today. I would also like to remind you that personnel issues do not need to be included in the agenda of the day session. I propose them as the Head of the Supreme Council in the order in which I consider it necessary. And that's why I'm announcing entry into the staff cluster in the following sequence: first, the National Bank, second, the Authorized, third, the Accounts Chamber. But in the meantime, my dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to support Law 7547 in the gap between personnel issues. And I'm going to ask that we vote after the National Bank for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the human resources issues are exhausted. And I'm going to put this vote right after the National Bank of Ukraine. Is it accepted? Understood, colleagues? It's a human question. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, we're moving on to the question of discharge from the position of Head of the National Bank. I want to remind you, there's a separate procedure, and according to this procedure, without violating any of the points, we're going to go. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, belong to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine at the time of submission of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine introduced a draft Decree (No. 7500) on the release of Valeria Alexiyivny Pottery from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. I want to tell you what procedure is provided for by law. First, a report by a representative of the President. Mrs. Irina, please prepare for the speech. The other one. Fellowship of the First Deputy Head of the Committee of Doubenk Mikhail Volodymirovich Please be prepared. Then there's the report of the Pottery Valeria. Then the factions, then the MPs, and then the decision to be able to go through all the personnel issues, I call on the people's deputies to be as concise as possible during the discussion, so that we can get through all the questions. And I invite you to the report of President Irina Stepanovna Lucenko of the Supreme Council. Mrs. Irina, within five minutes, but I'm asking you to be as concise as possible as a request. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the release of the Hontarev Valeria Aleksivni from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention. Mr. Head, I've been as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Shortness is the sister of talent. So thank you. And now we invite you to take the floor to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on financial policy and banking activities of Michael Dovbenko. Please, Mr. Michaela.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, held on February 5, 2018, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of the Hontarev Valeria Aleksyivny from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (registering 7500 from January 18, 2018), submitted by the President of Ukraine, was discussed. I want to say that, considering that at our committee meeting on October 5, 2016, we discussed the issue of systematic ignoring by the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Pottery Valeria, the Alexi-like invitation of the committee to participate in committee meetings and to discuss the legislative regulation of issues arising in the Ukrainian banking system, as well as on October 18, 2016, we discussed issues at the meeting of the committee on the evaluation of the activities of the Head of the National Bank, Ms. Gontarev. In the course of the discussion, Mrs. Hontareva's non-professional leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine led to the destabilization of Ukraine's financial system and the rapid devaluation of the national currency, the unjustified withdrawal of a large number of commercial banks from the market and a sharp reduction in the lending volume of the country's real economy. As a result, tens of thousands of bank employees have been deprived of jobs, large losses of savings by Ukrainian citizens, and financial resources from economic entities. Mrs. Hunter’s conduct regarding the Committee’s constant disregard was also condemned. On the basis of the Committee’s consideration of the matter, the Committee approved the decision to make a proposal to the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine to submit a submission to the Supreme Council for the discharge of the Head of the National Bank in connection with the loss of an impeccable business reputation. In view of all of this, there was no lengthy discussion at the committee meeting. It was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of article 18 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act and part two of article 207 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, to approve the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of the Hontarev Valeria Alexijivni from the post of head of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration 7,500), submitted by the President of Ukraine. According to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Bank."..
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u86	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u87	Before considering the above-mentioned issue at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, listen to the report of Valeria Gontareva on the results of the activities of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, we are now giving the floor to the report on the results of the activities of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Ms. Valeria Gontarev. I very much ask that we listen carefully to our colleague. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u89	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Finally, after 10 months of waiting, I have the opportunity to report to the Supreme Council on the results of my three-year job as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. From the beginning, I emphasized that I had come to the National Bank for Reform. So when all the reforms that the Ukrainian economy and the banking sector urgently needed were done, I considered my mission to be complete. And last April, I filed with the President a formal application for resignation at my own request. And since May 11, 2017, I don't work at the National Bank anymore. What was done. First, macro-financial stability is ensured, the country has moved to a flexible exchange rate and has launched a new monetary policy for inflation targeting. And successful cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and other international creditors has allowed the reserves to increase to $18.4 billion. Secondly, we cleared the banking system of insolvent banks and increased its resilience for the future. Banks are healthy, transparent, and ready to resume lending. Thirdly, we've made a complete transformation of the National Bank, redesigned all processes and transformed it into a powerful, modern European institution. And so I think my mission is completely accomplished because the reforms are done. I would like to point out that for the first time in the history of our nation, the resignation of the Head of the National Bank is not a political decision. More detail is now being given on the summary of the reforms that have been undertaken. We will recall the conditions under which the new National Bank team and I had to start reforming it. When I came to the National Bank in 2014, the state of the economy and the banking system was terrible. Large macroeconomic imbalances, severed exchange rates, substantial fiscal dominance, a sick banking system, virtually absent banking supervision, high levels of credit for connected persons, and opaque ownership structure, inefficient procedures to combat money - laundering, and so on. At the same time, there were three crises: macroeconomic, monetary, and banking. And worst of all, our country was in a state of war, along with part of the territory, we lost almost 20 percent of our GDP and 30 percent of our currency revenue, it was a really devastating storm. Our economy was caused by a collapse and Ukraine by a collapse. My centrifuge colleagues and the leading finances said the mission was not working. For me, however, there is no crisis — even such a powerful one — that there is no reason for me to give up reform. The National Bank team has assumed the responsibility to carry out reforms in difficult times, and today we have something to be proud of and what to report to you. All the decisions taken by the National Bank were aimed at stabilizing the Ukrainian financial system, stopping the lawlessness of the banking system and laying the foundations for its further development, as well as for sustained economic growth and the future welfare of Ukrainians. So what the National Bank managed to do over the years with my cadence. First of all, we've restored macro-financial stability in the state. Please listen, we've really restored the state's macrofinancial stability. To do so, we made the most difficult, painful, but long - mature and inevitable decision to move on to a flexible one. to flexible course mode. The desire of politicians for their own self-interest to maintain the course of the bracelets at all costs has had a negative impact on all our macroeconomic indicators. And we finally got rid of the anchor that pulled us down. Now moderate rates of fluctuation are no longer perceived as the end of the world, nor do they cause panic. You can see for yourself what was three years ago and what now, what was the situation in the currency market. Since 2015, the National Bank has been given a new mandate – the government's price stability mandate. To do this two years ago, we fully re-loaded and developed a new monetary policy, the policy of targeting inflation. I would like to point out that there is simply no other alternative for our country today. World experience shows that the regime we have chosen is most effective in ensuring low and stable inflation in our country. In my headship, the National Bank made its first commitment to achieving inflation goals, and in 2016, we achieved our first inflation target of 12 percent. But this is just the beginning. The national bank’s medium-term target is 5 percent. This is an acceptable level of inflation for developing countries. But I want to emphasize that all branches of government need to work continuously to reduce inflation by this year for the next two years. That's the first thing you do. Moreover, macroeconomic stability has allowed us to move on to the gradual liberalisation of monetary regulation. I came to the National Bank from the market, and I've always been a proponent of market relations in the economy. But unfortunately, economic risks, especially the war in our territory, not only prevented us from starting liberalisation earlier, but also forced the National Bank to impose unpopular administrative restrictions. We had to stop the panic and the non-productive flow of capital because of non-lethal currency transactions. By means of administrative restrictions, then, the National Bank stabilized foreign currency demand, ensured its rhythmic arrival in the interbank market, and restricted its unjustified flow from Ukraine. However, the situation has stabilized, and for the past two years, the National Bank has carefully removed these restrictions in such a way that they do not disrupt the country’s fragile financial stability. Moreover, the National Bank has taken on a rather ambitious goal: to completely rebuild the archaic model of monetary regulation. Ukraine is ready to move from the rules it has been working on since 1993 to the modern, European-based model of free movement of capital. In the new model, anything that is not prohibited will be allowed, all monetary regulations will be consolidated in a single framework law. And the requirements for currency transactions will become transparent, simple, and understandable to the population, business, and banks. Yet, on the other hand, this is a task that the National Bank cannot implement without the support of other state institutions. For the final transition to a liberal currency management model, a place of strict monetary regulation must take up effective tax regulation. It is tax regulation that is built on the world standards of economic cooperation and development, and not monetary restrictions that should prevent non-productive capital flows through low-tax jurisdictions. Secondly, I am proud that we have been able to implement a major reform in the banking sector that has become part of the world's best practices of cetrobanking. We started with a large-scale diagnostic of the banking system, which finally revealed the real state of affairs. The banking sector needed urgent recovery, and together with banks in 2015 we developed a recapitalization program to be implemented. Since the beginning of this program. This program was quite compromising. For four years, banks were assigned to recapitalization, three years to repay loans to connected persons. As part of these programs, the banks have now increased their capital by 230 billion dollars, a significant step towards their financial sustainability for the future, and then the restoration of trust in banks. At the same time, institutions that did not follow the program were found to be insolvent and withdrawn from the market. At the same time, the National Bank began to clean up the banking system from the many well-founded owners of schematic banks and wash banks, those who did not do the banking business at all. As a result, we have fundamentally changed the landscape of the banking system. Out of 180 banks at the beginning of the 14th year, 82 banks are currently operating in the market that are gradually restoring lending to support the economy, and for that, Ukrainian banks have financial resources to scale. for the start of full-scale lending to the economy. That's about 100 billion dollars and 4 billion dollars of free liquidity. So thanks to our efforts, the banking system is now 100 percent transparent and each investor can verify who trusts his own funds. The banking system is sufficiently capitalized and completely liquidated. The trend, which clearly shows how systemic problems are solved in the past, is to pay off banks' debt for refinancing loans. You remember how I was given an incredible amount of refund. I'm going to give you some numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u90	Please finish one minute. And then you'll have the opportunity to finally sum it up, Madam Valeria. Please, one minute -- finish, then let's get to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u91	So I'm going to give you some numbers about the refinancing that they're saying for themselves. At the beginning of my office at the National Bank in June 2014, the debt for the refinancing of banks amounted to 112 billion dollars. On May 10th, 17th, the payoff rate was 15.2 billion dollars, of which 14.4 was allocated to the state's PrivatBank, half a billion dollars to the state's Krukgazbank. The total debt of insolvent banks to the National Bank at the time was 45.2 billion dollars, the remaining 50 billion being repaid. Let's take a closer look at these unliquidated 45.2 billion dollars. Our country needs to know all of its so-called heroes in person, so I'm going to give you a list of insolvent banks, the biggest debtors of refinance loans and the names of their ex-owners, because they're very famous oligarchs in our country, and some of them even sit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u92	Dear Mrs. Valeria, I first. First, I want to thank the hall for the constructive atmosphere now. Mrs. Valeria, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's get this over with, okay. Okay. I wanted to say that I might sum it up. Mrs. Valeria, five more minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, yeah, five more minutes to name all the oligarchs' names. Please. Thank you, Mrs. Valeria. At the request of the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u93	I'm holding my slide again. I've told you this before. All my public communications you've seen, all these numbers, nothing's changed in more than two years. Nothing. Probably in three years. They didn't pay the National Bank a penny. As a result, $45.2 billion in outstanding loans to the National Bank over the past three years. The unconditional leader is Oleg Bahmatük. At the loan of its two banks, the Financial Initiative and the VAV Bank are 10.2 billion dollars. Bank Nadra. Dmitri Firtash owes the National Bank 9.8 billion dollars for his loans. Mikola Lagoon is responsible for the Delta Bank loan of 8 billion dollars. Constantine Zhevago and his Bank of Finance and Credit owe the National Bank 6.3 billion dollars. Leonid Klimov, who is still a national deputy and even joins the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. You have just heard the committee report. What a committee you can see who's sitting there. 3.4 billion. But all the rest is 7.5 billion dollars. And I would stress that bankruptcy doesn't mean that these poor owners are now completely free of their banks' debts, and government money has to be returned -- and a dot. This is why the National Bank has sent 12 allegations to law enforcement agencies that the shareholders of these banks have committed crimes. We also initiated 44 lawsuits. We should bear in mind that the nonrefundable loans to the National Bank have largely been granted to banks since 2008. They were given without a proper mortgage, namely, for insolvent assets, at an exorbitant cost. These banks are now being eliminated or in liquidation. That's why the National Bank team, since the middle of the 14th year, has raised its valuation requirements early in the year, has proposed the practice of providing personal guarantees to shareholders, and has included valuations of assets of independent international evaluators. The credits that were granted to the banks for my office were used only to compensate for the outflows of the individual’s expenses under the guaranteed amount of 200,000 dollars that the National Bank’s curator had investigated. That's why we can report for every bracelet of the issued refund in my time. But it would be impossible to completely clean up the banking system without solving the private bank problem. If you have time, I'll give you information, Private Bank. A comprehensive recapitalization program was developed as a result of a diagnostic study with PrivatBank. Former owners, such as Igor Kolomoyski, gave a personal guarantee of the program. But neither the management nor the shareholders of the bank ever did. By the end of 2016, the bank’s capital deficit had reached 146 billion dollars. Moreover, after nationalization, Ernst & Young’s bank indicated the need for additional capitalization of 38.6 billion dollars. The direct fiscal cost of private bank recapitalisation has reached 7 percent of GDP! 7 percent of GDP, from our GDP, is the private bank nationalization that cost the country. And at the beginning of this year, the International Company Kroll, which conducted the forensic audit of Private Bank, confirmed and documented the biggest financial affair of the 21st century. These were large-scale coordinated fraudulent actions by shareholders and bank management that cost the state at least $5.5 billion. When I tell my colleagues from other central banks this amount is 5.5 billion dollars, and what is it? But when I tell them that this is 33 percent of our population's deposits, that's 40 percent, think about it, 40 percent of our country's monetary base, it's no surprise, it's even scary. In front of such a systemically important one. The transfer of such a systemically important bank, which served more than 20 million Ukrainian citizens, was the only right decision under the control of the state. Thanks to the timely and coordinated activities of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Guarantee Fund, all of them have saved their money and continue to receive bank financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, there will be factions from the factions now, and then there will be speeches from the national MPs. I remind you once again that we have very limited time, and so I ask that we be as concise as possible during the discussion. And now I'm asking the factions and groups to record the performance. All factions and groups, no questions, no colleagues. Please record statements from factions and groups. Mrs. Valeria, thank you. You can take your place in the bed. And you'll still be able to say the closing word. From the Self-Help faction to the word is invited. Danchenko passes the word to Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u95	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the venerable Ukrainian citizens! Of course, Self-Help will vote in favour of Mrs. Potter's resignation. But let's be honest with the Ukrainian citizens, that perhaps the most important national regulator in the banking sector remains without a leader for about nine months, only the President of Ukraine is responsible. It is the President who is responsible for all the decisions of the National Bank during this period. But before Mrs. Gottaareva retired, when I heard the report of the Head of the National Bank, I never heard the answer to the following questions. I think Ukrainian citizens have a right to know, and I'll ask you these questions. First. Dear Mrs. Gotarev, why didn't you go to your place of work for nine months? I remind you that this Parliament is elected by the incredible struggle of the people, that these national MPs have elected you to this office and no one has relieved you of your obligations. Next. Whose scheme was the liquidation of nearly 90 banks? Yes, some of them have signs of fraud. But even the names of the individual owners of the banks that you now call random. Why? Today you're talking about the feat, the Nationalization of Private Bank. But why did you, as head of the National Bank of Ukraine, know the problems of Private Bank, keep your mouth shut for 2-3 years? It was your office that directed billions of dollars of Ukrainian taxpayers' taxes to the private bank. You knew about those holes in Private Bank and kept quiet. And maybe for the last time. What concerns Ukrainian citizens. That's what. The size of the national currency has certainly been influenced by not only the National Bank of Ukraine. But, I think, and I want to ask you, why, when inflation and the devaluation of the bracelets were galloping, didn't you just stand there every day at the briefing, explaining to Ukrainian citizens what you were doing, using the Ukrainian government to stop the devaluation of the bracelets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u96	Thank you. Longenkov Alexander Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Now we're looking at the core personnel issue of the discharge of a person who actually did his job, the function of devaluation of a national currency. And she did very well with that function. The statistics are quite stubborn, because when Mrs. Gotarev was in office in 2014, the dollar was 15 dollars per U.S. dollar. Now it's $26 in the U.S. dollar. Why did this happen? Some interested persons who controlled the activities of the designated official may have benefited from this but from what and by whom. On account of the national economy, and on account of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. There was talk about why she did not report for her activities. How can we report decisions aimed at cancelling free foreign exchange auctions that have actually allowed banking institutions to set their third course, which was different from the dark market and different from the official exchange rate of the NBA? How can we explain the need to eliminate a number of viable banking institutions that have actually created the problem of the existence of a large number of fraudulent investors? The relevant activities of the National Bank of NBA are, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, to ensure stability with the national currency of Ukraine. As a result of the report that was announced in this room, Mrs. Gottaareva has already told us that they failed to perform this function. Will there be any change in the policies of the National Bank with the person assigned when the next question is considered? Probably not. Since the conditions created by a valid authority regarding the provision of a floating exchange rate will not allow the situation to be reversed. There'll be no dollar by 8, unfortunately, 5 by 10, because that's probably not conveniently valid. Since these profits resulting from the reported crime against Ukrainian citizens of politics have produced results and results. It's an uncontrollable refinancing. This is the cancellation of input exchange rates, etc. It should be noted that the activities of the National Bank have actually led to the absence and credit. In fact, the real sector of the economy is not being credited. Lack of credit is a prerequisite for economic growth. We see that all the conditions for economic stagnation are created, the plan for the devaluation of the bracelet. That is why the National Bank of Ukraine must have managed this task. But in whose interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Sorry, colleagues, I won't give you 30 seconds, because we're just not going to be able to look into it by lunch. I'm giving you 10 seconds, and I'm not going to let the speakers go on. Since I wasn't warned, please, 10 seconds. Ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u99	Sadly, this institution has done its job. Is there a task set by the Constitution? Whether it is in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, we see it in reality already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u100	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm warning you, I'm not going to add time to the next speech, because we're just not going to be able to make it to lunch. And I'll give you the next word for the speech. From the People's Front, Masorin Helen, please. He's handing Polack over from the rostrum. And I'm asking you as concisely as possible. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What I'm trying to say is about the release of Hunter. There's a statement, we have to satisfy it, put a dot, but we have to think about tomorrow. And the main requirement, and the People's Front vote, from the future leadership of the Head of the National Bank is, first, the National Bank's development strategy, it's the stability of the national currency, it's a small and medium-sized business support program. It is these key things, Jacob Vasilovich, that we will ask that if you are elected by Parliament, you should do, and then there will be no problems that exist in the financial and banking system today. It's the stability, the predictability of the job. That's why the People's Front will support Smolija Jakov Vasilovich. And I hope that when we change leadership, we will experience real change. And most of all, they're being felt by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u102	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, please, Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. And also, please, in a concise way, because you know the importance of time constraints. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u103	Colleagues can no doubt be given a different assessment of the members of the committee that works for us, as stated on the rostrum. But I think the members of the committee have been chosen by the people and they're going to give a job evaluation to the members of the committee. I just want to say that actually the committee didn't fit in with many positions that were produced by the mega-regulator, which is the National Bank. And, first of all, we couldn't sit back and watch that banking system that was going on in our country. What I'm trying to say is that we're being set up by the result of this program. Because if we had a problem in the banking system at 7.7 percent on 01.01.2014, it was 13.5 percent in a year. On 01.01.2016, 22.5. Today, on 01.01.2018, 57 percent already. What, then, is it to clean up the banking system when the drinking weight of the problem debt increases? And it hurts. And I think it also hurts that today is actually a funded fund to guarantee the investments of individuals. Because today 64 billion, of which 60 billion are the Ministry of Finance, and in fact the budget, are with you. It's also here that we have different points of view, and we can't deal with it. So I think the problems remain, but with new leadership, we're going to look for new ways to reduce this negative pressure on the banking system, the guarantee fund, the business. And we're going to be ways to boost lending to the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Lysko Oleg Valeriyovich of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u105	Dear Mrs. Gontareva! All Ukrainians have the opportunity to make sure that in 10 months of vacation you look great, which I welcome. Unfortunately, it does not look as good as the bracelet, for which you have had the privilege of not being able to handle it. I want to remind you, unfortunately, that you have never read article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine for your term of office, the main function of the National Bank is to ensure the stability of the monetary unit. That's your primary function. Have you coped with it? At the time of your appointment on June 19, 2014, the dollar bill was 11.8, less than 12 dollars. Today, when you report your progress, the course is 26 bucks. And there were times when there were 30 and a hook. So your constitutional duty and your task -- the stability of the money unit -- you failed, you failed. You say you didn't do it because politicians insisted on the stability of the course of the bracelet, and said it was very harmful. No, it's your constitutional duty, once. And the second is the demand of millions of Ukrainians. Because, unlike you, people get cash wages and pensions. And when policies run by the National Bank in millions of working Ukrainians depreciate wages, pensions, savings, small incomes, that's what people are most concerned about. It's not what you look like or whether you work or relax, it's whether their savings are saved that they've worked hard all their lives. Whether their monetary wages and pensions are depreciated. That's what you should go out and tell people. Millions of Ukrainians, if you'll excuse me, because of my policy, you've four times lost your job savings. You've lost your wages and your pensions, and I haven't fulfilled what I promised you when I was assigned here. I, by the way, was the only deputy who did not vote in favour of Mrs. Gonnaareva's appointment on June 19, 2014. That's why the National Bank is conducting a policy that has led to the national economy, the national business to develop, the savings of Ukrainian citizens to increase, our team of the Radical Party has proposed changes to the Constitution, where it is incumbent on the National Bank to promote monetary policy instruments for economic growth, employment for Ukrainians. So that millions of people don't go abroad looking for work. To ensure that the national business has affordable loans so that Ukrainian salaries and pensions are not underestimated, and to make sure they are stable, we demand that the National Bank do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u106	From Fatherland, Lucenko gives the floor to Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The offer of our faction is very simple. You will now vote in favour of satisfying Mrs. Potter's request to resign at your own request. Is that what the hall and the citizens of Ukraine are waiting for? I think we should do a good tradition when the report of such persons starts with the report of the NABU and the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. True, in this case, we still have to call the Kyiv City Police Department, because the case that the NABU opened and led by the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office was strange. This is a situation that needs to be reached in the country in order for a matter relating to the illegality of refinancing, the embezzlement of funds, the negotiations of Mrs. Hontarevý Rozkova after the merger of Ukrainian banks with Russian banks into the police department of Kiev. That's not what I'm talking about. If this hall or those who voted knew what three letters were not the NBU, the AICU was the company headed by Mrs. Gontareva, who, in the rulings of the courts that the Attorney General had announced today from this rostrum, clearly contributed, because 1.5 billion U.S. dollars that had been stolen, according to the prosecutor, and what there is already a decision of the courts, were put out in six offshore jurisdictions with the help of a company, co-owner and manager of which Mrs. Gontereva is, I think the decision of Parliament would have been different. This should be the key principle of the investigation. Because in all organizations that respect themselves, there is a principle that applies to the key question, when should you answer both to yourself and to society: Is there no conflict of interest in the appointment of a position? And it's obvious, because one and a half billion dollars that ICU produced, and we're told that some ICU broker, Yanukovich's money and others have been exposed to offshore jurisdiction because of this company. So I don't think the wording can be, at your own request. Do you think otherwise, honourable national MPs? The wording should be consistent with the transfer of all materials, not to Kyiv’s police department, but back to the NABU and to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office. Our faction is forced to vote for it because we know that the hall of another formulation is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u108	Thank you. And from the faction, the closing act, one minute from Rebirth, Valery Pisarenko. And then nine minutes from the people's deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. I'm very short, we're really going to be, we're going to be doing the first year of the National Bank's work under this direction, and we've already passed the Order on the release of Nazbank's leadership in November. And I want to talk more about responsibility. Because, unfortunately, we have no responsibility for anything. Four. For three years, Nazbanka’s manager was in charge, and he was in charge for another year. The bracelet fell three times, but there were no responsibilities. And that includes the responsibility of this Hall, which was not voted out of our Order, which was registered in November of 14, to release this Head of the National Bank. Hopefully, today we will not make such a mistake, and we will continue to think of responsibility. Because this is very expensive for the Ukrainians, who are then deprived of their purses and stolen money from banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, three performances by national deputies. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please record. And after that vote, colleagues, we don't have much time. So I ask everyone to be as concise as possible during the discussion. So three national deputies, and I give my word. The first is the fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. And Kirichenko. Both Fishing and Kirichenko -- first and third -- pass on the word to Halasyuk. Then there'll be Rizanenko. And then we go to the vote, colleagues. Please, instead of Fishing and Kirichenko, Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u111	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Just now, Mrs. Gonnaareva was here reporting on her so - called successes. She says the mission is complete. What was her mission really about? Only your main gains are the destruction of billions of simple savings in those banks that you've cleaned up, which you have eliminated in a completely artificial way, half the banking system. This is the loss of businesses in the real economy, about 80 billion dollars of circulation costs, is a quarter of all the circulation costs that these enterprises have. Is that what you're doing? Or is it your achievement of what you have openly, officially opposed the creation in Ukraine of the Export Credit Agency, which was adopted by this Parliament as a law? Moreover, a week after this statement, you have adopted a regulatory act of the NBA, which has contributed to foreign export credit agencies in Ukraine. What does that mean? That you were deliberately clearing the market for foreign goods in Ukraine. And today, through Ukreximbank, the Ukrainian banking system stimulates the import of foreign goods into Ukraine instead of supporting Ukrainian producers, instead of helping them conquer foreign markets and bringing currency into the country. These are the results of your policy. You've actually turned Ukraine into a financial desert by covering up the fight against inflation. If the loan/GDP ratio was more than 80 percent a few years ago, today you have reduced this figure to 40 percent. This means that the real sector doesn't even have the ability to finance the current activity normally, I'm not talking about development and modernization anymore. I don't think you know that, but in developed successful developing countries, including in Asian countries, this ratio is over 100-120 percent. In Ukraine, 40 percent. The banking system today because of your policy does not function as a basis for lending the real sector of the economy, crediting the real producers that produce and sell it in Ukraine and abroad for dollars, for the euro. With your politics, you create a artificial deficit in the trade balance that has been preserved for more than 10 years! And you leave it as it is. Moreover, your policy of spending, the thoughtless absolute increase in the bill, you have artificially created an affair with so-called deposit certificates, which has cost tens of billions of dollars from the banking system and enabled banks to make huge percentages of money not to lend to the economy! Just think, every taxpayer in Ukraine pays thousands of dollars a year for having an affair with deposit certificates. So the banks are paid to keep the banks from lending the economy! And that's NBU policy. Moreover, after meeting the Radical Party faction, at which we spent an hour and a half, to put it mildly, discussion with Mr. Smolius, the National Bank halted the affair. I hope that it will never be restored. Nazbank has to make sure that commercial banks have the funds to borrow the real sector, buy development bonds, not deposit certificates, and wash out funds from the economy and industry. You have pursued a policy that has led to an increase in Ukraine's financial dependence on foreign loans and the financing of the International Monetary Fund. So in whose interests is this policy?Oh, my God! You're saying you're struggling with inflation. But everyone can see what the results of your fight against inflation are in their pocket and at prices in stores and at prices in gas stations. Why, because inflation cannot be overcome by expensive policies. Inflation in Ukraine is not caused by the fact that people have too much money, that people make a lot of money, and that they buy a lot. No, the savings rate in the economy today is less than 1 percent, and you know it. Inflation in Ukraine has a different nature: it's an administrative increase in municipal tariffs -- once and for all, it's the import of the Ukrainian economy -- two. I think you should know as the head of the central bank that in Ukraine the economy is more than 55 percent dependent. In the United States and Japan, that's less than 20 percent. Clearly, when we buy even what is produced in Ukraine for dollars, for the euro, and so on, there is a constant lack of currency in the country. And this currency has to be taken from foreign creditors and paid off for it and signed these IMF memorandums that essentially restrict Ukraine's sovereignty in national economic policy. That's what you've done to promote this kind of policy. So our team of the Radical Party is in favour of a radical change in the monetary policy of the country. We, along with 170 fellow members of the National Deputies, have introduced a draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine to set up the Nitzbank for tasks such as the Federal Reserve System of the United States. Four tasks: currency stability, available credit, economic growth, and unemployment. Your policy cannot or will not destroy the Ukrainian economy. Finance has to work for the real sector, the economy works for every citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u112	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. And I would like to point out to you that we are not in time to consider the appointment order, and so after the vote, I'm going to ask you to continue the morning session until the end of the consideration of the National Bank's issues. And I ask everyone to continue to be as concise as possible. Now it's a closing statement from the deputies. Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich. And then we go to the vote. So two minutes to vote. And I ask all the heads of factions, national deputies to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Paul Alexanderovich, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u113	Good afternoon. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Rizanenko Paul, 97th District, and a member of the Financial Policy Committee, banking, and head of the Securities Committee, the Stock Market. I'd like to, you know, evaluate the management of the National Bank, the head who resigns at will. As you know, there are two functions in the National Bank that support macroeconomic stability through monetary policy and banking supervision. And in fact, experts, including our international partners, acknowledge that in terms of maintaining macroeconomic stability, they give a positive assessment to the National Bank in general. But, you know, the same experts say that under the conditions that Ukraine was in, depending on, including, the support of the outside, there was probably no other choice, and no one would have any other policy. As far as banking supervision is concerned, this is, you know, a slightly different situation. On the one hand, experts and Nepopoulists also support and I think it's also the right decision to clean up the banking sector. That's why there's a plus. But the way it was done, it's a giant minus. Banks had to be put out immediately without giving owners, shareholders, management what was called spending them. In our eyes, Private Bank, I'm only speaking out of 90 cases of self-resonant and self-inflicted, you know, which impressed us all with their insolence. This is Private Bank, this is Bank Mikhailovsky, this is Bank Platinum, when the National Bank, in fact, is inaction, intentional or inconceivable (this is already the function of law enforcement agencies to establish), has given shareholders and management to completely consume these institutions. For this we will all be paid, tax payers through the state budget. And of course, the National Bank didn't have any confidence in all the scandals that had to do with the company Investment Capital of Ukraine, where the head of government was the owner, the shareholder and so on. And that's the question of profit from the kid's Eurobonds, thanks to Rotterdam Plus, and we all understand that it's about some information about the introduction of this form and the possibility of collecting these papers at reduced prices. And the same thing that's less talked about here, but the fact that one of ICU's co-owners is the management of the Russian World Bank of State. And in the market in Russia, everybody knows, and in Europe, what ICU does, it's insideric. trade in insider information on debt deals made by the World Bank. So ICU is going to be fronting "WTB" in these markets. So it really blew up the trust in management. to the Head of Government of the National Bank. You know, we have to do our duty and just grant our wish to be freed at the request of our own head of government. I urge everyone to vote for this. And hopefully that allows us to open a new page.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, we are now moving on to making a decision. But as soon as I make a decision, I'll make an offer. Listen carefully so that you do not question or scream. I'm going to propose that we continue the morning session of the Supreme Council for consideration of the Order appointing the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and for consideration of draft Law 7547, as well as the proposal to continue the evening session for consideration by the Commissioner and the Accounting Commission as one proposal. Agreed? Do you understand the position? Got it. So now we're going to move on to this decision, and then we're going to move on to the National Bank. And, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote for adoption the entire draft Decree 7500 on the release of Valeria Alexiyivni Hontareva from her post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:43:14]] For 342 It's been decided. And colleagues, pay attention! Since the next decision is 40 minutes, I propose it: to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as the draft Law 7547, and to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the issue of the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Court of Auditors is considered. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, we have limited time to make it. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[13:44:14]] For-191 The factions. Colleagues, as you offer to work without lunch. No, right? So I'm showing the factions again. 108 – "Block of Petra Poshenko", "National Front" – 65, "Samomach" – 5, Radical Party Láška – 1, "Patakščina" – 0, "Will of the People" – 4, "Rebirth Party – 1". Colleagues, we will not be able to address important personnel issues. All right, then, colleagues, pay attention! I'm betting, I'm formulating, I'm paying attention! The morning session before the completion of the questions of the National Bank, and the evening until the conclusion of the examination of the Authorized and Accountable Chamber. Right. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Morning to the National Bank to continue, evening to the Court of Auditors. You got it, right? No, no, no. To the head, to the election of the head of Valery Paccan's House of Accounts. Is it accepted? Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:45:50.]] For 196 I said no, no, no. Colleagues, well, then I ask the question as follows. Prior to completion of the consideration of personnel matters. Attention, colleagues! We must now make important decisions. We have a chance today to consider the question of Natzbank, the Authorized, the Accounting Chamber. It seems to me that the whole Parliament is interested in this, and I think that not only the Chief of the Supreme Council, but the entire Parliament, is interested in the matter of personnel. We've been going to them for too long, and we've been working on it for too long. I know you're interested in all the factions to be considered and accounted for, to be considered and authorized, so let's support this proposal, colleagues. So, colleagues, are they supported? Supported. Ivan! So, colleagues, pay attention. I'm re-composing, listen carefully, so there's no discussion. The morning proposal before the conclusion of the National Bank continues, evening before the completion of the two personnel matters of the authorized and the Court of Auditors. Let me put it in a step first, the extension of the morning to the National Bank. It's supported, isn't it? I'll break it in two. So, attention, the continuation of the morning's consideration of the National Bank. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice, I beg your pardon. Please support the morning until the end of the National Bank, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. [[13:48:49]] For 222 Two votes. Now, one more time, one more time. So the continuation of the morning before the review of the National Bank. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote on the extension of the morning session to the National Bank. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:49:20]] For 219 Once again, colleagues, I'll put in the third time, colleagues, I'll put in the third time. The next one will be. I know I'll put him on the nightstand, I'll offer him at the evening. Again, colleagues, six votes, four votes. I'll ask you two separate questions. Okay. Attention, attention, colleagues! Please be careful, I'll make another offer. Morning session for the consideration of the National Bank and 7547. Morning to the National Bank and 7547. It's okay, isn't it? And the evening is until the end of the Ombudsman and the Accountant. Is that how you do it, colleagues? Colleagues, listen up, I'm eating. It's happening. Is it supported? No, why? Why? It's a compromise general position. Colleagues, why? Why, explain to me. Let me put it up, colleagues. So the morning is to the National Bank and 7547, and the evening is to the conclusion of the Commissioner and the Accountant. Compromising overall position. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, let's support it, colleagues. This is a great opportunity for Parliament. We'll support 7547, too. Yes, please back up, please back up, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[13:51:20]] For 205 Colleagues, what's the matter? Can you explain what this is about, colleagues? Heads of factions come to me. Heads of factions come to me. Arthur, Oleg, come to me. Berezuk, please come. So, colleagues, I did a consultation, I'm asking everyone to take jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So the proposal that I think will unite the hall, I ask you to listen carefully, since it is then said that you have not heard what the proposal is. I now ask the heads of factions to listen carefully to me. Ready to hear it, huh, me? The proposal sounds like this. Attention, attention! You're ready, aren't you? Proposal: To continue the morning session until the completion of the question of the National Bank of Ukraine and to consider draft Law 7547. [[Noise Nodes]] We can't break up the bank. We can't break up the bank. The next is to continue the evening session until the conclusion of the hearing. plus, plus. [[Noise Nodes]] Then we'll lose there, two votes we'll lose there, one thing we'll get together, colleagues. Let's try it, I've made a proposal. Did she understand? Got it. [[Noise Nodes]] This proposal gives us a chance to choose the National Bank, accept the KPC, accept the Accountant, this proposal gives us a chance to answer the question. Not voting takes that chance away, not voting robs us of that chance. Who wants to drag each other out, I'll tell you, if two votes go down, we're gonna lose there and we're gonna lose here. By one vote, we can unite everything. And that's why. Yes, so discard the ultimatums, please discard the ultimatums and support my offer. Because as a result, we're going to balance the hall and we're not going to take anything. Who's gonna win? Will Ukraine win, or will Parliament win? He won't win. So I ask you to unite all around my proposal. Morning – to the National Bank and KPC, evening – to the Commissioner and the Accountant, please vote and please support. Drop your ambitions, hear me, that's a good offer. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. To the account, yes, to the account. Please support, vote, vote. [[13:56:02]] For-195 I want to tell you, we've now put the election of the Head of the National Bank at risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now we're going to put the KPC at risk because we've put human resources at risk. Arthur! Come to me, Arthur. Arthur, come to me. Gerasimov! Colleagues, please. Attention, colleagues. I'm asking you to listen carefully. I'm asking you to hear me. Because if you can't hear me, we don't have a dialogue. Sergey Sobolev, Oleg Berezuk! Okay. Colleagues, now I'm making an offer, we've got three minutes left, and I'll put it in. Attention! First offer. Morning meeting, extension to the National Bank of Question End. The evening is until the completion of the questions of the Authorized and the Accountant. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just got out of KPC, and you didn't vote, guys. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm making this proposal. Yes, in the morning, until the end of the National Bank. Evening is until the end of the Authorized. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I just got off the phone with KPC. Now I'm betting without KPC. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, who wants the morning to continue until the National Bank is completed and the evening to continue to the conclusion of the Commissioner and the Accountant? Please be supportive. Please vote. Yes, please vote, please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[13:58:39]] For 230 And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. About the appointment of the Head of the National Bank. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Jacob Vasilovich is a native of Western Ukraine, born and raised in Ternopilish. The level of his education clearly allows effective management of the Central Bank of Ukraine. He received a full higher education at the University of Lviv, Frank, and he also has a degree in economics. Jakov Vasilovich has been working in the banking system of Ukraine since its formation for more than 25 years. He worked both in the National Bank of Ukraine and began his journey to the Ternopil district office of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as in private banking institutions, particularly the Aval Shareholder Postal Bank. During his work at the listed institutions, Jacob Vasilovich has proven himself to be a leading expert, who undoubtedly uses high authority in the banking environment and in business circles, and in business associations. Thus, the candidate proposed by the head of State fully meets the requirements set out in the Ukrainian National Bank Act. Moreover, it is not subject to the limitations provided for in the law. He has no representative mandate. He is not a member of the political party, nor does he own shares or parts of legal persons. In view of the proven practical experience, Jacob Smoliya's high professionalism, as well as his impeccable business reputation, the President of Ukraine asks the Parliament to support his proposed position as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Financial Policy and Banking on February 5, 2018, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Smolija Jakov Vasilovic as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration 7501), submitted by the President of Ukraine, was considered. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted the appointment of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich as Head of the National Bank, which was considered by the Committee in accordance with article 207 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. First of all, members of the committee confirmed that Mr. Smoliya’s candidacy was in line with the requirements set out in article 18 of Part Three and Fourth of the National Bank Act. During the examination of the candidate’s appointment as Head of the National Bank, the candidate’s report on the strategic vision of Nazbank’s activities was heard and numerous questions raised by committee members were answered. In doing so, I should point out that we had a constructive professional discussion. And since Mr. Smolius was actually the Head of the National Bank for almost a year, he was able to communicate with him as head of the central bank. For example, during the last period of Valeria Gontareva's tenure as head of Nutzbank until April 2017, unfortunately, as a parliamentary committee, we felt increasingly difficult to communicate with the regulator and to lose the normal constructive contact necessary for joint legislative activity. So I should point out that with Mr. Smolius as Head of the Nutzbank, this cooperation is currently being established and the deputies, members of the committee, have constant communication, which, in particular, has a positive impact on the promotion of financial bills in the session room. At the committee meeting, we were looking for ways to support banks with Ukrainian capital and the excessive demands on their statutory funds, how to boost lending to the real economy. We also considered positive estimates of Smolija's candidate as representatives of the banking market, of public experts, of consumers. The National Bank’s activities for the period and members of the National Bank’s Board were commended as the head of the North Bank’s macroeconomic body. The committee then decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment of Jacob Smoliya as Head of the National Bank, in accordance with part one of article 18 of the National Bank Act and part two of article 207 of the Supreme Council Regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform everyone that, according to the Rules, there should be a candidate's statement now, and then statements from MP factions and groups. It'll take us about half an hour, 25 minutes. So about 2:30 p.m., we'll move on to making a decision. So I ask everyone to take the lead, the time of the vote, the maximum orientation of the national MPs, so that at 2:30 everyone will be in the room ready to vote for the decision. I now invite you to speak on behalf of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Smolija Jakov Vasilovich. Jakov Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u119	Good afternoon, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the public, media! Thank you for your confidence. It's a great honor and responsibility to take the National Bank under the leadership. I fully support the reform course. Our target is unchangeable. First. Maintaining price stability, promoting economic growth, integrating the Ukrainian financial system into Europe. Over the past three years, the National Bank has managed to stabilize the macroeconomic situation, to rehabilitate the banking sector, to introduce important innovations such as inflation targeting and floating exchange rates. The National Bank team will continue to build a modern and open central bank of a country that has trust in society. And I thank the President, the government, the parliamentary corps, the National Bank Board, the banking community, for supporting our reforms. The preservation and deepening of cooperation with our international partners is also very important. The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Union, governments and central banks in Europe, as well as around the world, testify to the progress of reforms in the financial sector. And we are grateful for their support without which this progress would be impossible. Dear National Deputies! I'm sure the role of the National Bank in raising our country and economic growth is one of the defining. My undeniable priority is to continue to build a modern, stable and transparent banking system that can effectively contribute to sustained economic development. To achieve this ambitious goal, I have a clear vision and a plan. This plan contains both long-term strategic projects and concrete steps that will be implemented soon. First of all, we need to restore credit to the real economy as soon as possible. Right now, the banking system has enough funds to start full-scale lending. In general, over 80 billion dollars can be used to restore the country’s economy. At the same time, we have a few problematic issues: this is a critical amount of non-working loans in banks' portfolios and weak protection of creditors' rights. Their solutions are only possible by changing legislation. I call on you, honourable national MPs, to support draft laws that will help fill the economy with credit. These are draft loan recovery laws for debt management activities. If these changes are approved, we will be able to start an economy and full credit will be possible by next year. Then came the time of fundamental monetary liberalisation. For too long, Ukraine has lived in conditions of archaic and inefficient monetary regulation. The currency bill that we have proposed is already supported by the National Reform Council. I am convinced that here in Parliament a qualitatively new model of monetary regulation will be supported because broad monetary liberalisation and free movement of capital allow Ukraine to become an equal participant in the global economy. Above all, however, the National Bank must remain independent of political trends. Political independence will enable the National Bank to carry out its mandate effectively, to ensure price and financial stability. This way we have such strategic goals. The first goal. The National Bank will continue to work on low and stable inflation rates over a 5 year period of 5 plus minus 1 percent. At the same time, we continue to make efforts to make the financial system even more resilient to external shocks, to protect its stability from political influences, to promote the interests of the market. I would stress that we will not allow a return to the dominance of fiscal policy over the monetary price of Ukrainian purchasing power. The other one. A healthy, balanced competitive banking system will demonstrate increased profitability and long-term deposits, increased cash-free operations, new technology standards. I would also like to stress that in the medium term the Ukrainian financial system should be integrated into the European system. This means that we have to fully implement European directives and norms in accordance with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union as soon as possible. The third goal is, as I have already stressed, the restoration of credit. An effective model of financial sector regulation. The fifth target is monetary liberalisation. In the end, the sixth is the financial inclusion, that is, the availability and security of banking services. So I assure you that our knowledge and efforts will serve exclusively for the benefit of the people and the State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u120	Thank you for your statement, Your Honor. You can sit in your seat right now. Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the discussion, for the faction statement of the factions as we now discuss the candidate for Head of Nutzbank. Please sign up. Only factions, groups will be. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko of the Radical Party faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u121	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. I give the floor to the leader of the faction Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I remind you that we don't have Lazko running for the head of Nazbank; he's only now representing the faction's position. Please, Mr. Oleg, your performance, please, there is always a chance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u123	Madam Vice Speaker, it's a pity that the Lachka team today has the opportunity to run the country, but your team, who you are, and the Gontarov team, whose team you are. Because as a result of the actions of today’s authorities, every Ukrainian can feel in his pocket. When she is as bright as the U.S. dollar, Mrs. Hontareva goes out to the rostrum and reports on her success, every Ukrainian person who gets up and sleeps in the morning and thinks where to earn money, how to feed his family, how to heal, how to pay for a communautaire, every Ukrainian person has a dissonance, because you really feel like you've come from space and you don't feel what the working people are doing. And as a result of your policy, it's job cuts, it's emigration when young people go abroad, because there's no job, it's stagnation for economic development, it's turning Ukraine into a cheap labour and raw materials trade. And that's the responsibility, including the National Bank. Because you don't give cheap credit to businesses, you take people's jobs, you're artificially destroying banks, you're taking away hundreds of billions of dollars from the government budget for what's called refinancing, instead of directing them into the real economy, for young people's housing, for building roads, for infrastructure to support national business. Dear Jacob Smolius, who was nominated by President Prašenko for the presidency of Nazbank, was on our faction a few weeks ago. As a result of this discussion, we have seen that Mr. Smolius is the same Potter only in his pants. Because they're the key -- they're not going to change Nazbank's politics. Without the National Bank, without concerted action by the government, the National Bank and Parliament, economic growth is impossible. And if you don't change this policy, if you continue to put the interests of President Dustenk and your own instead of putting first the interests of the national business, the jobs of our people, the economic development, if you don't change politics, the country with you has no future. Therefore, the Radical Party team proposes a different policy: lowering interest rates on loans, investing in national business, promoting economic growth and coping with Ukrainian unemployment. Such policies alone will lead to victory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u124	Please give the next speech as the national deputy of Gusak. Please. It's from the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u125	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the honorable presiding officer! Finally, we awaited the Supreme Council's consideration of the governance of the National Bank. It has been 10 months since Mrs. Gotarev stated that she is no longer the National Bank of Ukraine and does not want to rule. And it's been going on all this time, I don't even know what to call it, or negotiations, or auctions, but one way or another, the question hasn't been considered. And what confidence in the National Bank can we talk about in general? And by the way, I just don't understand the calls of Parliament's leadership to be as concise as possible in their speeches. The meetings began 20 minutes later, 15 minutes were lost in order to continue the meetings, and at the same time the deputies are given enough time to express what people think about this National Bank and its authority. Whatever the case, we listened very carefully to Mrs. Potter’s report. For example, she stressed that a flexible exchange rate had been reached. That's what she calls devaluation of bracelets 2.5 times, which made Ukrainians 2.5 times poorer, and now Ukraine's per capita GDP rating 131st out of 187 countries, losing dozens of positions in recent years. And Mrs. Gontareva said, even twice, twice, that macroeconomic stability had been achieved by repeating this. So if macroeconomic stability is achieved, this stability is very similar to that of a closed cemetery, because in Ukraine there is no real-economy lending, and if there is, at interest rates of 20-30 percent that are impossible to talk about real-economy production. And at this stable cemetery, Ukrainian companies are dying, Ukrainian manufacturers are dying. Because in the same three years of the reign of Mrs. Hontareva in Ukraine, industrial production fell by 15 percent, and the National Bank’s management contributed significantly to this decline. Once again, the position of the Head of the National Bank has become a hostage, I can't even call it political but cynical trades, where no one cares about the stability of the national monetary unit, or the provision of credit to the real economy. And in such circumstances, we cannot vote in favour of the Head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it's not about names, it's about principle. Whatever the name of the head of the National Bank, the National Bank as an institution and structure, and this person sitting or sitting there, is dependent on the oligarchy system of government in the state. And everything that's happened over the last 10 years, not for the benefit of a Ukrainian person, has happened in favor of the oligarchs. And these pseudo-activities, pseudo-reforms, unfortunately, have not benefited the Ukrainian man. Someone has to be responsible for this. In the country, it is the responsibility of the President of Ukraine and the coalition that supports him. The self-help faction has decided not to support the appointment of the head of Nazbank. It is only because of these things that the oligarchy majority has taken responsibility for what has happened in the country over the past four years and what will happen. And this is real politics, and this is our contribution to people knowing who's responsible for the course of the bracelets in this country, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u128	Please make your last speech. National MP Demczak. Please. Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction at its meeting supported Jacob Vasilovich Smolija's candidacy as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. He presented the development strategy programme of the banking sector and the overall strategy of the National Bank of Ukraine by 2020. And I want to say that Jacob Vasilovich has the perfect biography for the Head of the National Bank. He's a mathematician himself. He passed. He has the experience of working in a commercial bank in various positions, from the bottom down to the deputy head of the government of the Bank of Avalon. He also worked at the branch office of the National Bank in the Ternopil region. Moreover, he came and, attention, came because many here complain that it was one team, he came to the National Bank and he was appointed deputy head of the National Bank to Valeria Alexiyivny Pottery, until her appointment as Head, ex-head of the National Bank. He has high communication competences, he managed to work with our Committee of Financial Policy and Banking. You heard today that it was difficult for us to work with the National Bank at a time when it was headed by the Pottery Valery of Alexyevna. And so many of the suggestions that were made by our committee were not heard during that period. I can honestly say that in the last 10 months, our committee has been doing a really fruitful job with the National Bank, with its legal bloc. And we're preparing a series of bills that are very important for Ukraine, which will enable us to just restore lending to the Ukrainian economy, allow us to lower the stakes for our borrowers, protect our borrowers, improve lending accordingly. This work is being done and it is the foundation of Jacob Vasilovich Smolius. That's why, after having held many meetings with public organizations and the market, I want to inform you that the market supports Smolia's candidacy as Head of the National Bank. It is also supported by public financial sector organizations, supported by international financial organizations. And finally, there's been a lot of statements today that we don't have the Head of the National Bank for 10 months. This destabilizes the country’s financial system. So I ask you to be responsible today and to support Jacob Vasilovich Smoliya at the head of the National Bank of Ukraine in order to stabilize this. That's the direction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u130	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u131	And the stability of our banking system was guaranteed by the Head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u132	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I want to remind you that in about seven minutes, there will be a vote. So I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of the people's deputies into the Hall and to invite all the deputies into the Hall. Now I'm inviting you to speak from the "Fatherland" faction Sergey Sobolev. Please. I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, is James Smolius a fine expert? Yes, there is. I think it's one of the best bankers in Ukraine. But that's what changes it. Please tell me, if you put the best expert under a system that has worked for the last three years, how will this system end? Yes, perhaps it is even better than his predecessor would have done — think of it, not the healing, but the cleansing of the banking system. If this is a policy that continues, is it necessary to clean up the banking system even by the best professional? The second question. This is a constant insistence that as a country may be without the Head of the National Bank. And it turns out we're a unique country in the world, we haven't had the Head of the National Bank for 10 months, and we've seen what's been going on in the country. And now, it turns out, the world came together with a wedge. So that we don't listen to the full program of whoever goes to the Head of the National Bank, but it turns out it's crucial to vote on it. Our faction expected a high-quality and high-quality specialist, Smolius, from a clear program of recovery from the banking crisis that would allow even under conditions of war, as it is in many other countries of the world, to maintain a stable course, to develop an economy. Sadly, we did not hear that. And I don't think it's up to him. This depends on what direction and assignment is given. That is why our faction will not vote for Jacob’s appointment as Head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u134	Thank you, colleagues. The statements from the factions and groups are over. And 9 minutes - 3 speeches from the national MPs. Please hold the recording, 3 speeches by the national MPs. Please sign up. So, Tetjana Ostrikav. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, when you and I listened to Mrs. Potter's speech, she said in her speech that fighting capital outflows requires tax methods, not administrative-currency restrictions. But in fact, during its leadership by the National Bank of Ukraine, we did not see any initiatives from the National Bank to repeal the Post-Radians Decree on monetary regulation and control, nor did we see any legislative initiatives aimed at monetary liberalisation. What did we see? We've actually seen hard administrative currency constraints that are somehow justified by war. The bill on controlled foreign companies, which will allow tax methods to make it impossible for offshore and low-tax jurisdictions to be withdrawn by the authorities, unfortunately, so far has not been submitted to Parliament. As I'm going to say again, it's a bill on monetary liberalisation. Instead, even during the last few years, 15-16 years, there have been the fact that funds have been disbursed in offshore jurisdictions. According to the 2016 DFS, 65 billion dollars were recovered in interest paid to related nonresidents under a low - tax capital scheme that violates the rules of fine capitalization. According to international experts, $9 billion a year is being transferred from Ukraine to offshore low-tax jurisdictions. In January 2018, this is already the data of the NBA, a net outflow of private sector operations, along with mistakes and assumptions, amounted to $456 million. I would now like to ask the candidate for the position of Head of the National Bank to explain these figures. If you claim to have fought and fought to get the capital out of the offshore. If you claim to be in favor of monetary liberalisation with simultaneously tight tax control, under controlled residents of Ukraine by foreign companies, and at the expense of such companies, taxes in Ukraine. So where are the appropriate legislative initiatives? Why are they still not in Parliament? Why haven't we seen you repeal the post-Radians decree on monetary regulation and control? And I would also like to ask the candidate for the position of Head of the National Bank on the course. Because now we see that before his appointment, he's holding the course very tightly. Will he maintain such a course without the International Monetary Fund’s tranche? We see that the bills required by the International Monetary Fund, in particular on the Anti-Corruption Court, are not being adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u136	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Fishing Sergius. Please, Mr. Sergei. And, colleagues, five to seven minutes to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it's been 10 months since we finally decided today and released Valery Alexyevna from the Head of the National Bank. I see a few problems here. Well, first of all, according to the Constitution, the President is applying for release and for the appointment of the Head of the National Bank. And Oleg Lazko and his colleagues, of almost all factions, have registered and even passed laws through the committee so as not to violate the President's constitutional rights. We had a clear deadline. If a person got tired, he found another job, or he didn't want to work, or he left, for example, abroad, he was due for two weeks, and after two weeks, Parliament approached and took responsibility for the release of the Head of the National Bank from office. The second question. I would very much like to have a change in the National Bank Act. And on the committee over the years, we've developed a strategy for the development of the financial and banking sector for the next five to seven years. We have made the National Bank Act, with clear criteria, for which we can release the head of government and government in general, and for what we are rewarded. Because today we don't have these criteria in the law, and neither does the Supreme Council, and only society, by binding, I say, its own pocket, can say whether or not the National Bank policies are in place today. But there are no legal mechanisms. We have a bunch of bills on this committee today, both about state banks and about the National Bank and about the Deposit Guarantee Fund. But they are now in the Supreme Council without consideration. Why? Because the National Bank, when in a country of crisis, when in a country of devaluation, I think it should work daily with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, during the work of Valérie Aleksyivne, we have not seen such cooperation with the committee or such cooperation with Parliament. I very much hope that today's decision to appoint the Head of Mr. Smoliya's National Bank will be made, whether it will be the Head of the National Bank or not, but whether it will be the Head of the National Bank, it will be fruitfully working with our committee and with Parliament to ensure that the laws that it is today are approved. And one more thing. I would very much like to hear from the candidate for this position, and what strategy does he have today, in general, to see the development of the financial and banking sector, to strengthen the bracelet, to stop the bankruptcy, which today is to do with confidence in the banking sector. So our faction, unfortunately, is not going to support Mr. Smolius for this position today. But I would very much like, no matter what decision I make, to have the new Head of the National Bank work with Parliament and remember that Parliament is adopting the laws that society today needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u138	Thank you. And the closing statement is Rizanenko. Fursin tells Rizanenko. And, colleagues, in three minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs, and I'm asking everyone to prepare for the decision. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u139	Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich, a professional committee of financial policy and banking. You know, we're looking at a candidate for the Head of the National Bank, and if you look at a biography, it's not standard for Ukraine, but in a positive sense it's not standard, in a biography you'll see quality mathematical education, and a career in the National Bank without scandals, and a successful job in the private sector, and one of the most successful contracts in the banking market is selling a private bank to a foreign investor and continuing to work again in the private sector, and returning to the National Bank. So once again, I'm going to repeat everything without scandals, and we see that a person is financially independent and independent of oligarchs, which is very strange and rare for our country. I would like to point out that since Mr. Smolius became the head of the administration, we have resumed our dialogue with the National Bank, which was lost before, and this is also a positive factor. We have a positive experience of working with the National Bank and the committee chaired by Mr. Smolius himself. As for wishes and what we will see in the future. Of course, any economy comes through the cycles, after moments of crisis, the groves are twisted, administratively limited are introduced, everything is regulated. I think we've been through this period. Today, it is more relevant for the National Bank in monetary terms, in terms of its policies, to weaken and boost lending. Of course, this should be done in coordination with the government, including the budget deficit that causes inflation that is not affected by the National Bank. Separately, I'd like to make a statement about the desire to liberalize the currency. But it's a complex job, it's not just the adoption of the currency law, it's also the signing of the international BEPS, SRS, OECD agreements, and it's also a voluntary declaration, or a zero declaration, that's the same thing. So I would like to highlight these very points, focus on the new future leadership, hopefully. And I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of a professional, responsible candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u140	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now. I know it's hard to work when we're planning some meetings for a break. Now I'm asking everyone to make a convincing entrance to the hall, and I ask everyone to leave the beds and the government and the guest of the national deputies, and to move directly to their jobs, colleagues. It's a difficult but very responsible decision, and we need full mobilization, I stress, full mobilization. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Now, the head of the committee, Doubenko, one minute, give us a word of advice, one minute. After a minute of voting, look who's not around, call me, invite me to the hall in a minute. Please, Doubenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we have had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Smolly quite seriously about the perspective of those issues that the National Bank and our profile committee can share. We've talked to him quite seriously about what legislative initiatives and in what aspect we can prepare together to move towards the liberalisation of monetary regulation, so that we can enable business, enable entrepreneurs, industry, and the banking sector to see the prospect of growing and investing important projects for our country, and increase the extent of lending to the real economy. I think it's difficult questions, they can't be solved for, of course, a month or two, but it's important to us that with Mr. Smolius there's a charge on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u142	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u143	There's a load on this whole team, a team that produces interesting ideas. And I think that's what's going to give us a good perspective. So I would ask my colleague to support this proposal, which was voted on by the committee, and to vote for Mr. Smolius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m0.u144	Thank you. My colleagues, you remember, we have very few votes, so I'd like to ask you to see who's not here, and invite you to the hall. I would like to emphasise, knowing what are the political debates that are political about this denial, but the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine is a huge signal to the Ukrainian society, to the stability of the Ukrainian national currency. This is a big signal of the stability and development of the Ukrainian banking system. And this, colleagues, is a very important signal for our Western partners, who are waiting for it, especially the ambassadors of the Great Seven countries, like all the countries of the Great Seven, who want to see that in Ukraine, the stability of the national currency and the stability of the banking system. So I ask, colleagues, convincingly, despite political differences, to support this decision. Please take your seats and vote. Please come into the hall. You ask me 10 seconds, I'll give you 10 seconds. And once again, everyone who hesitates now, let's think about how important this is for the state as a whole, how important it is for the stability of the entire system, the functioning of the banking system. And perhaps during the vote he will give his vote for the Head of the National Bank. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Order (registration number 7501) on the appointment of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Stop, stop! I'll wait. I'll wait. I'll wait, okay. I'll wait for those 10 seconds, we can't put the question at risk. Forget the card, they'll give you a new card. All of it. You're ready, aren't you? The entire Supreme Council of Ukraine is waiting for you. Ready? Yes, colleagues, please. Colleagues, please, ask for a card because. And you make sure no one gets out of the hall right now. Because someone just got out of your faction. So, colleagues, we'll wait 30 seconds for the card to be written. In the meantime, I urge everyone to reconsider the matter and decide on a positive vote. Because we can now give a negative signal to both society and partners, or vice versa, to demonstrate that the country's interests are more important than the political differences that may be between our factions and the people's deputies. So I'm asking everyone else to see who's not in the hall, invite MPs into the hall, and take jobs. And I see there's already a level of readiness. Yeah, we already got the card, right? Okay, plus. And I'm putting to the vote the Bill (Registration No.7501) on the appointment of Smolija Jakov Vasilovich as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support, please vote in agreement and in confidence. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Please vote, vote, please support carefully. [[14:42:26]] For 247 Decision taken. Congratulations, Jacob Vasilovich, wish you success! And know that you will always find support in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I wish you success and fruitful work. With your election! Colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. We will continue with the matter of the Authorized One. But if there's room will, after considering the Commissioner's question, I'll re-examine the KPC issue. And if there's room will, we'll have a chance and an opportunity to consider today the question of the Criminal Procedure Code. At 16 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you. I'll see you later.
