ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u1	Good morning! With the first day of spring! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please. So, are you ready to register? Please take part in the registration. Please register. [[10:05:08]] 333 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled that the Act on Principles of State Language Policy, adopted on July 3, 12th, is unconstitutional. I warmly welcome all the Ukrainians with this just decision of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court. Because of this shameful act, the Russian agency under the masks of Ukrainian politicians tried to split Ukraine apart. We recall the time when we were in the hall fighting for the nonadmission of this law. I would like to point out that the basic law that defines the principles of national language policy in Ukraine was and is the Constitution of Ukraine. And article 10 of the Constitution clearly states that Ukrainian is a national language. The decision of the Constitutional Court gives us an opportunity to consider and approve the new Language Law. And I'm asking the political factions to consult on the laws that are registered in Parliament so that we can discuss and come to a positive decision by the Ukrainian Parliament. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that tomorrow the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by the Head of Parliament, will participate in the Inter-Parliamentary Security Conference "Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine: Eastern Partnership and Current Security Challenges". Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova, as no one else, are aware of security threats. Our countries have experienced what Russian aggression is. But in addition, we go together on the path of European integration. This unites our countries. And tomorrow, with our foreign colleagues, we're going to discuss a common security strategy, we're going to test our clocks on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. It's supposed to be eight speakers in the Balto Black Sea region. And this will be a very important meeting, the initiator of which included Ukraine. Now for the day's work, colleagues. So, as in the weekly agenda, the first two questions are information policy issues, which are extremely important. I think we'll look at them in detail. And then we'll be able, colleagues, to go to the first reading of the Anti-Corruption Court today. The commission of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was carried out, and the committee gave a positive decision. And today we have a great chance and, I'm sure, Parliament has this opportunity to implement the Anti-Corruption Court Act in the first reading, a dual issue for the country, for society, for our international commitments. And I hope and I am confident that we can concentrate on this issue. Then there are laws that are very important for our commitments to the EU – laws that are important for Euro-integration, this road map, which was jointly approved by the government and Parliament yesterday. Consultations continue with the National Bank. And I'm convinced that today we can have a fruitful working day, and I urge everyone to work actively in the hall. Now, before we go into the agenda, I'm going to read two statements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first statement from two political factions is "The People's Front" and "Peter Prashenko's Block." And they're ready to switch the break for the performance. The second is from the Radical Party and Self-Help. And they're ready to replace it. And I'm just going to invite you in step by step. The first is to speak to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbaku. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u2	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Yesterday we received a wonderful news from Stockholm: the second positive decision for Ukraine in the arbitration process that was initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk in 2014 against Russia's Gazprom. Stockholm arbitration has met Naftogazu's requirements for compensation of more than 4 billion for the lack of Gazprom gas for transit. Arbitral rejected Russian gas monopolist's demand for fines for allegedly illegal naftogaz seized the volume of transit gas. It's the Kremlin's next defeat. This is another defeat of the aggressor country. From the People's Front faction, I welcome the Naftogazu team and all of Ukraine with this victory. Last year, Ukraine won a 56 billion - dollar victory over Russia. So many Ukrainian people and each of us should pay the aggressor country for the cable formula "take or pay." Arbitration also closed the question of the payment of the Kremlin’s gas to its terrorists in temporarily occupied territories. I would like to stress once again that the Gazprom lawsuit is the decision of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk in 2014. At that time, everyone was silent, unbelieved, and someone was enjoying himself again, not to say that by 2014, no one and a finger had hit their finger to get out of the gas storm. It's been good for all of us. On February 27, four years later, Arsenius Yatzenuk’s first government was appointed. I had the privilege of working in it. Nobody believed in us at the time, we were called the Kamikaze government. Because everyone understood that in order to win that situation, it was necessary to make unpopular, sometimes very difficult, but responsible government decisions. And we did it. We weren't worried about our ratings, we were worried about the country's fate. And we did it. We were a strong team for difficult times. Then we stand and stand now. Because now the People's Front faction is the support of this Parliament. All the decisions that started in the 14th year by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk are now winning and winning for the whole country. Dear people of Ukraine, hear this figure: Thanks to two victories in Stockholm arbitration, we have saved over $60 billion. There was no such winning in the aggressor countries in the world. This is 75 percent of gross domestic product. If it wasn't for a responsible government decision to sue the aggressor country, I'm sure that military action in the 15th year would have been completed because they would have blocked our gas valve. So I think it's a historic victory. We should welcome both the Naftogazu team and everyone, the entire Ukrainian people, so that we can win the countries of the aggressor. This is another victory. And I'm sure there's a big victory ahead of us. And finally. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u3	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u4	By the way, the present decision of Stockholm Arbitration is an excellent signal of ideas that our European colleagues, who are irresponsibly responsible to Russia in the construction of North Stream-2. For Russia, gas is blackmail and weapons. Dear European colleagues, don't go into Russia's gas storm and repeat the history of Ukraine that began to break free from it in the 14th year. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u5	Thank you. And from the Radical Party faction and Self-Help to the performance, Oleg Lazko is invited. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today is 75 years old from the day of the Korukow tragedy. The world is aware of the tragedy of Belarusian Hatin, Czech Lidice, French Oradur, but even in Soviet textbooks, Koryukiv was silenced. On March 1, 1943, Hungarian and Fascist invaders burned the village of Koryukowka and all its people. Nearly 7,000 people were shot, killed, burned in three days in a local church. This is the greatest tragedy of World War II, during which nearly a thousand children, hundreds of men, and women died. Why was this tragedy silenced in Soviet times? Because when the Hungarians and the German fascists killed our people, partisan groups under the leadership of Alexia Fedorov, ten times as many as the Fascists, did not come to the aid of the people killed by the Germans along with the Madyans. And, unfortunately, this tragedy has happened. In my native Montenegrin, the Germans burned more than 60 villages along with the people who lived there. By and large, fascist invaders destroyed more than half a thousand villages with tens of thousands of Ukrainians who fought against the German occupation. It is vital that we remember these sacrifices. It is vital that we never again give Nazism, that fascism take the mountain again, occupy Europe, occupy our home land. Ukrainians have given more than 10 million lives to free Ukrainian land from the German-Fashite invasion. And it is very important to remember the feats of our grandfathers, for today’s heroes, who protect the Ukrainian land from the Russian invasion, are in fact heirs to the heroes of World War II, who liberated our native Ukrainian land from the German invasion. I ask, Mr. Head, a moment of silence to honor the memory of the victims of the Korukow tragedy and the memory of all the victims of World War II, for which the Ukrainians gave tens of millions of lives. It is vital to pursue such a policy so that Ukrainians will never again bleed to death on Ukrainian soil.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u7	Everyone please rise and honor the moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. We have an exhibition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third floor, which is actually dedicated to this tragedy. Colleagues, so let's move on to the agenda of the day session. The first law is 2702 and also "1" and "d". So this is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine (to improve legislation in the field of external advertising). And, colleagues, some people have thought about maybe going through a full procedure, but I think we should do it in a nutshell. And I think I should. And I'm going to give the word to all who will have the faction act under this law, all factions will be able to get their word and their position. And I ask, colleagues, to take up jobs and to support the consideration of the reduced procedure of these bills. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of draft Law 2702 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:18:28]] For 112 Once again, colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. I want to remind you that the main intrigue is that after those two laws, the Anti-Corruption Court Act may be something that someone wants to delay. The Anti-Corruption Court is a task both for the Ukrainian Parliament and for the Ukrainian society, not for coalitions or opposition. Therefore, I ask you to support and vote. Colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote and please support. Vote. [[10:19:34]] For-126 Colleagues, I'll put it back up again, if there are no votes, we'll go in full. Only I ask everyone to understand the logic of the vote. And once again, we actually have after those two bills, we're going to the anti-corruption court, and I think you should get into the trial before 12 o'clock. And I think it's going to be the right thing to do, and I'm sure all of them support this idea. So, colleagues, once again, I'm asking you to focus, and I'm asking you to support me. Please take your seats, please show me the voting factions. So we can go to the vote? Please take up jobs. And I'm voting once again to consider draft Law 2702 on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:21:01]] For 134 Let's move on to the full procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three times I put to the vote, the same for everyone. Yes! Okay! I'm going to put two factions on the table again. Please take up jobs. Take your seats, get ready for the vote. I am voting on a proposal for draft Law 2702 to be considered under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:21:54]] For 133 I told you it didn't make sense. So I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Opanasenko Alexandr Valeriyovich. Please. I'm the only one who's asking the reporters not to use it all the time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have the honour to present a bill that was already registered almost three years ago – in April 2015, literally called "To Change Certain Ukrainian Laws (to Improve the Legislative Regulations in the Field of External Advertising)". Along with me are Leonid Jemec, Vitaly Stasuk, and Olena Matuzko, and Victor Halasyuk. This was a quintession of changes that had long matured and matured in market regulation, namely the Law on Allowance Procedure and much more. But in three years he hasn't lost his relevance yet, but there was a lot of discussion, and, in principle, I'd like to put a dot at this point after the presentation of 2702, because this report was written two years ago, and the situation has changed a little bit. A year ago, early in 2017, under the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, a large working group was formed, to which almost all of the steakholders of the process and representatives of local authorities and central authorities, and public organizations, associations, and businesses, and the deputy corps. And in a year, there were dozens of meetings and hundreds of hours of working groups. And I think that as a result of these working groups, I want to thank everyone -- this is the USAID LEV, and Max Nephrodova, who ran and moderated this process, and Alexia Reznikov, who was also involved in this process. We've done a more conscious and more qualitative bill, which was registered at the end of last year -- 2702-d. I'm asking you, I hope that everyone, regardless of the first day of spring, will find a way and find a way to come and be present here, join this reform that has matured and matured. It seems to me that by adopting this law, we will first lay the foundations of transparent and honest procedures in the process of regulating and allowing the development of the external advertising market, and most importantly, we will remove our streets and change the faces of our streets for the better and change, clean up many illegal and constructions, and advertising structures that pollute and pollute our cities. I ask you all to unite and support the 2702-d committee bill, which is finalized and it goes to the third in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u9	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Novak Natalija Vasilovna. Excuse me, yes, three minutes, questions. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. You're arguing. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u10	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, Peter Dust Block. I'd like, well, of course, to support the bill, but I think we should give a report on whether there are only one requirements in this bill that apply to advertising so that everyone is in the same conditions. Because I can see that someone might be here. There's always someone who's got the upper hand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u11	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u12	One of the tasks was to build transparent rules on this market: that all market participants should be in equal conditions; that there should be no preference for certain structures. And most importantly, he was betting, and he's trying to clean up extra permits and stuff. Not the advantage, but the limits established by local authority. According to the law at the Kabmin level, standard rules are made -- they're like canvasses, rules of play -- and every city will be determined exactly how much construction there is, etc., and what they have to be, looks like, so that cities have their own brightness. Well, their faces were direct, so they were different from each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u13	Thank you. Wait a minute. The next one is Solovy Yuri Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u14	Please. Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Dmitri Biloczerkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u15	Thank you. The request does not support this bill. There's no decentralization. There are restrictions on the authority of cities, restrictions on competitive powers, and further work is needed. And what was speculation about, for example, Alexy Yuriovich Reznikov supporting this bill is not true. Indeed, some of the standards that our faction has also proposed have been supported. But there is a very large number of uncompetitive norms and restrictions on city authority. Therefore, the request is not to support this bill, to bring it back to the committee and then to draft a joint bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u16	Well, I'll comment directly. Perhaps our colleague Dmitri did not fully read the bill. But when I spoke and mentioned Mr. Reznikov, I said he was present and participated in most of the working groups. The KMDA have taken the same approach in most cases. 80 percent of the demands and recommendations that came from KMDA were implemented in the final bill. You don't have to twist it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u17	And the last question is, "The Jurassic." Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u18	Mr. Head, please pass on the word of Natalia Vasilovna Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u19	Mr. Alexander, please tell me, is it normal at a time when we're fighting on a level playing field in any market, including advertising that this law favors large companies that are already working in the market? Wouldn't it make the market a closed and anticompetitive market?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u20	I agree with that point. Because, in principle, if you look at it, certain markets are completely competitive, yes, where there can be a lot of provider services. But I'm not sure this could be related to the markets of external advertising. I'm not sure that cities will be interested when they have a thousand providers that each will have in one design. Still, this market is oligopolistic to some degree, right? There's, there's a number of participants, there's 10-20. This is standard European practice. There aren't hundreds of participants in the same place. But I want to say that there are many things in the bill that guarantee a level playing field and a level playing field. By the way, in the amended bill, there are things written about which, Mrs. Natalia, you reminded yourself of the direct conduct of the competition. Cities are allowed to conduct two procedures: a permit and a competitive access procedure. I think that's a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Thank you for asking. And I now invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Novak Natalija Vasilevna. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u22	Dear Head, honourable deputies! This law, the amendment of the Advertising Act, has long been awaited by communities around the world, and so do business representatives who work in advertising. Two projects were first prepared. In addition, they were prepared on the basis of the same project. But the project's authors did not agree that the project that Opanasenko, which is now being drafted by the committee, has left all the corruption standards that this bill is making there, let's say it's inappropriate for the advertising market to be fair, transparent and open. First of all, there's a lot of rules in the law that have an indefinite nature. Here's an example. In order for the advertising market to be open and transparent, we required that advertising schemes be developed and that placement competitions be held. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We know that the number of such places in cities is limited. But it says it's a city. That they can design schemes and they can run competitions. When they can and may not conduct, it already opens up a loophole for corruption, to apply this law. In addition, companies that have already entered this market have extended the standard that they have preferences because they have worked in this market before. So this law makes the market closed, monopolized. And by the way, the advertising market is very, let's say it's growing so fast, and so it would still be desirable to make it equal for everyone. There is no balance between the interests of advertisers, advertisers, businesses and the interests of local communities. Because, for example, when schemes are developed, preferences are given to public organizations that represent advertisers. And just the public organizations that represent the city's interests, its design, its architecture, its aesthetics, they don't participate at all. Preferentials are given to some charitable organizations in the field of social advertising. But social advertising can be provided not only by charitable organizations but also by public organizations, such as those who fight tobacco, alcoholism, and drug addiction. Thus a very narrow list of those organs that can participate in developed schemes. In addition, there is such a standard. By the way, licenses are issued for 10 years, which also prevents new players from entering the advertising market. For a dynamic advertising market, it's a very big term. It should also be said that such a norm, such as silent consent, is also corrupt because it completely removes responsibility from the official. An official, for example, doesn't give permission, so the term has already expired. Thus, advertisers and businessmen will be given the opportunity to have access to places where they wanted to advertise. So, despite the fact that there are good standards for terminology in this law, the law as a whole is corrupt, it has a lot of corrupt norms. And I don't think that's the way to vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u23	Stay, please. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for Mrs. Novak's question. Yuri Solovay, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u24	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Well, clearly, the issue that we're considering today needs a legislative settlement, because the situation that we're seeing today with the outside structures and with the advertising that's on them in many cities, today, well, it's extremely dangerous. If we compare a nice European city with a city in Ukraine, we see that if in Europe, first of all, we look at the architecture of those cities and generally at the inner atmosphere, in Ukraine it's mostly cities with advertising structures. Therefore, the issue needs a clear legislative settlement, but I have a more important question. Please tell me, what are the main differences between your bill, Your Honor, Natalie Vasilovna, and the bill that the previous reporter reported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u25	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u26	What I'm trying to say is that my project clears those corrupt standards. I have a mandatory billing scheme in my project, and anyone can know where the advertising facilities are legally located, anywhere else. There are competitions for places of advertising. My project also gives permission for five years, not 10 years. So the advertising market will be competitive, live, active. Moreover, I have no norm for the silent agreement that gives corruption. And there's also, let's say, a balance of community interests and a balance of business interests. And for business, it's convenient, because it's open and convenient for the city, because the city dictates its terms and conditions for advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, the next question is from Semenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u28	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear Mrs. Novak, I have two questions for you. First. How does the concept of your bill, let's say, have an exaggerated effect on the mess that exists today on the market for external commercials on highways? That's the first question. And the second question. Your draft law provides for a substantial mandate to address these issues to local authorities. On the one hand, that makes sense, yes, about decentralization and other transfer processes. On the one hand, you're talking about the only rules for all market participants without exception. You know very well what corruption is today because of unnatural competition and in many, many cities. So what if we're talking about creating equal conditions and at the same time giving maximum authority to local governments? What, then, is the logic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u29	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u30	How will this affect you? The thing is, there's a separation of powers. There are roads of state importance. Where public places and lands are state - owned, the matter is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers or by appropriate ministries that know where advertising is located. As far as decentralization is concerned, I fully agree with you, but there is a law that requires that there be a pattern of placement. In developing the scheme, my law provides for active participation by the community, and there is an obligation to conduct advertising competitions. Also, five years is a term that allows, let's say, to feel free to be in business, but not to preserve the advertising market and allow new players to enter. In addition, where there is a strong community and where they will enforce the Law on the Obligation of Schemes and Competitions, there are, in fact, open and transparent rules of the game.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Natalia! You can go. There's no more questions, you can go there. Please give the speech for the report to the head of the Freedom of the Word Committee, the author of the alternative bill 2702-d. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's very sad that under the snow, and in fact, for political reasons, we're looking at these bills in a long way. Although, in fact, the situation is simple enough with these bills. Everyone agrees that there is a need for order in the field of external advertising. Everyone agrees that today in this area, apart from corruption, we see just what's called a banal mess. Because if you look at the streets of our cities, especially the big cities, you'll see just a vacchanal of various external structures and outside advertising. The firms that get, yeah, close to the mayors, yeah, all of this in the shadow sector happens, yeah, then all of this is used for different purposes. And no one understands who's responsible for the commercial that's on the outside media. That's why we've taken this matter seriously in the committee and because we've had two bills, the difference between which is, in fact, the key difference. The question was: What difference does it make? We've heard a lot of words, but it's really simple. One bill envisioned more possibilities for the Cabinet of Ministers, which sets the only rules, another bill suggested leaving everything to be considered by local governments. Apparently, someone's closer to the mayor's position, someone closer to the position of general unification. We've actually taken the committees as the basis for these two bills, better examples of them. And them. Worked on them with experts from the Ministry of Economic Policy, as well as with various social organizations, adopted international standards -- and made a committee generalized version, which is the most complete and complex to address the issue of external advertising in Ukraine. So this bill provides for very specific four types of external structures and distances between them. This bill foresees that external advertising can only be established on the basis of maps approved by local authorities. This bill foresees that external advertising operators are subjects of entrepreneurial activity that are identified in open competitions. Yes, there's a ten-year deadline, because it was an insistence of the External Advertising Association, but it's the first reading, I emphasize, and that means that we can fix this situation if the political will of most factions is to do so. And we've discussed these terms that they probably can't be 10 years old and they have to be a little bit smaller, we're going to be discussing, five, seven years. Why are there preferences for operators already operating in this market? Because they already have some experience. But once again, the rules of entry can and will have to be discussed in the second reading. It is envisaged that external advertising sites, transparent electronic registers, will be maintained, and it will be clear to us which ship, which plane to which one belongs, who is the operator of this external advertising, who places this advertisement, and for what amount? An orderly dismantling system is much worked out in the security context, since many structures are in an emergency today. I want to say right now that we can discuss a lot here, but I don't know what the secretary of the land was saying, agreeing on what options I didn't agree with. But I would now be distracted from the lobbyist stuff and try to put myself in the position of Ukrainian lobbyists who are tired of this mess on their streets and who deserve to be more orderly in this area. If we're saying that Ukraine is a European state, we need European norms and European regulation in the field of external advertising, because it's a card, a card for actually our cities. And if today Parliament is able to start this reform, this is certainly a reform that will lead to substantial and tangible results, the results that will be seen on the streets of our cities. I would very much like to mobilise and support a comprehensive committee bill to continue to discuss changes to the second reading. And I'm sure if we want to compromise, we'll find them. And I'm asking a lot of questions today, and we're going to hear Kiev in this regard, because most cities have basically agreed to the approaches proposed in the committee's version of the external advertising bill. And we consulted many mayors, from many cities, and the Cabinet of Ministers supported this approach, and the Ministry of Economic Policy, and a whole bunch of public organizations. I'm asking you very much today to start this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u33	Can I ask you a question for Mrs. Victoria? I'm asking you to sign up for a question. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Podujak, Irina Podujak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u34	First of all, I really thank Victoria, the committee, and that's a good, really, bill that's worth looking at and supporting in the first reading, no doubt. All I'm saying is that he's got a copy of my bill that's about memory and security zones and monuments. But I have a question, to my conviction, this amount of fines in this bill for the unsanctioned placement of advertising is meagre. And to the second reading, we have to look at it. Because, in fact, what did you do to motivate such a minimum amount of fines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for your support. In fact, another money in this bill is the language of external advertising, Ukrainian and it's also very important, because we're like we can't adopt a general framework law on Ukrainian language, even though we're trying so hard to move in the information field. As far as the amount is concerned, I completely agree with you. I'm sure we're going to raise it, because all the numbers we've been putting on this was a very compromising option, but they're obviously going to be viewed. We were aware of that, and we immediately said that. Perhaps the issue of distances will be discussed, the issue of licensing time, and the issue of fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, DmitriBilocerkovec, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u37	I want to thank Mrs. Victoria for her work, for the committee's work. But I also want to point out that there are a very large number of conflicting norms, restrictions on the authority of cities. And in general, at the Association of Ukrainian Cities, for example, the bill was not even discussed. When you talk about what cities support, you should at least bring this bill to the association. Then you would hear the cities referring to the limitations of authority. And first of all, it has to be noted that those norms, they're very contradictory from a competitive point of view. Therefore, it is also a request not to support this bill but to draft a bill and then to discuss it at the Association of Cities of Ukraine with City Leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u38	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u39	The answer is actually very simple. So I understand there's a suggestion that we don't change anything, leave the shadow sphere, leave the sphere, when -- give me that -- the city secretaries themselves are in charge, they get those firms themselves, and no one knows. Well, everybody knows who's behind them, it's just not public. We suggest we start changing and start cleaning up this story anyway. I don't quite understand where the narrowing of the city's powers is, because, as the maps confirm, both the city's and the city's approvals are valid. The Minister's office approves the default rules? Well, if you'll excuse me, we have to have order and the only way to get outside advertising around the country is normal! Everything else is the authority of the cities and organs of local self - government. So I'm asking you to put aside some of your personal interests, and I'm asking you to think about the interests of Ukrainian citizens who have the right to live in cities that look like Europeans, and not -- forgive me! – in Shanghai, although I treat Chinese cities very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u40	Thank you. There are no further questions, and I ask you to return to your seat, Madam Victoria. Colleagues, we're moving on to the faction bill discussion. And I'm asking the MPs to sign up for the performance. Please, Alexandra Kugel. Olena Condratjuk, please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, you know, this is a long-standing question: how do we put the order in the field of external advertising in place, and it's also that for 10 years, we can't afford a complex law that just needs urgent work. Now we're actually looking at three bills, two of them that were written in 2015, and one is an integrated committee. And I want to point out that without work in 2015, this comprehensive bill would be too empty, which was worked both by public organizations and by Mert, and also by all the leaders of advertising structures, as well as by MPs. We support the amended bill 2702, which actually gives local self-government authorities the right to develop and implement external advertising schemes for cities and villages. Now, one of the leading roles is going to be the Kabmin, which introduces the standard rules as to how to regulate external advertising, but local communities will have more influence on the placement of advertisers within the territory. Transparency procedures are also being introduced, which are essential for the real regulation of external advertising. And the law will allow the question of illegal or arbitrary structures to be resolved by determining the order and conditions of dismantling them. I'm going to point out that the situation today is real, that more than 40 percent of the constructions in the cities are illegal, and that can even be said of 70 percent on the routes. And the problem of illegal structures never loses its relevance, because as soon as we have a real change in political elites, as soon as elections in cities or new measures are made, we'll see how these illegal structures just happen again in these same places with a pretty significant number. Of course we should talk about. note some comments that need further discussion. First of all, it is certainly necessary to further introduce and further develop the positions that apply to the placement of advertisements in the historical part of our cities, because we need to preserve the real face of our cities. This is especially true of the taste of order: where they should be, the exact size and so forth. There is also a need for further discussion of the minimally acceptable distances between structures, both within and outside the locations. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill, which has been co-worked by the committee. We ask for his support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u42	Thank you very much for the faction's position. And now, please, from the Self-Help faction of Irina Podowak. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank Alexandra Opanasenka and Mrs. Novak for these bills that have actually initiated the committee's work. Once again, I want to thank, on behalf of the Self-Help faction of the committee, that he took into account both the bills and the other norms that are in the bills that have not yet been in the room and worked on it. Separately, I want to stop at the part that relates to historic cities that relates to the protection and monument, because you know what this year is. declared "a year of memory protection," and there's a huge crisis in our country that has to do with memory protection. And, of course, the Self-Help faction will support the first reading of the amended committee bill. As far as this bill is concerned. There are several positions that, to our conviction, should be introduced to the second reading in the part that regulates the use of advertising on national monuments. First of all, this bill stipulates that the Ministry of Culture agrees to place external advertising within the area of the protection of national monuments. We find this unacceptable, and we consider it another very large corrupt source. We know that the Ministry of Culture is now working to stop them from agreeing at all in the ministry, for example, in historical areas, because we know about it and it's not a secret that huge corruption and corruption threats are already present in these processes. We are therefore convinced that the Ministry of Culture should develop an order of use and use of advertising on national monuments at the level of the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but we do not agree at all. Moreover, we are convinced that fines of between three hundred and forty and a thousand three hundred and sixty dollars or eight hundred fifty and a thousand seven hundred dollars are unacceptable. Because the revenue from advertising is more orderly. In addition, it is important in this bill to add that cultural posters can be placed on national monuments if a cultural institution is present. For example, if the Kyiv Opera Theatre is in a national monument, there should be a poster of this facility, but according to the approved passport, the facade should be arranged. And this will help to make all our memories national.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u44	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u45	did not become cakes bound with, as it were, various ribbons. And, of course, the bill has to remove, fortunately, the rule that refers to the law of Kivalova-Keleščenka, which was annulled yesterday by the Constitutional Court, with which I welcome you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for the faction's position. Colleagues did not sign up from other factions for discussion. I understand that during the presentations of the project authors, we actually heard the support of this bill from all the factions. There are no more wantons of factions to express their position. I now grant the people's deputies of Ukraine the right to sign up for the discussion and then we move on to the vote. Please sign up. Please, Yuri Solovay, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u47	Yuri Solovay. Please pass on the word of Natalia Novak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u48	Please, Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed all three laws. But what is the main purpose of the law? The main purpose of the law is to arrange advertising in cities, along roads, and so forth. And the thing is, aside from the underlying points about, let's say, terms, certain rules, there should still be clear rules about doing business and clear rules for communities. In this case, when I was on a committee meeting, there were a lot of representatives of advertising, lobbyists, and no one represented the interests of the communities. And if we want to put our cities in order, to clean up unnecessary, unnecessary advertising in order to be clear, transparent rules, we cannot vote for this law today. Because you know perfectly well when we're putting on confirmation of an amendment, all the changes that don't work today, they're going to go away, and the changes that were needed for the communities, they're not going to be present in this law either. So actually, considering. When Mrs. Victoria reported it, she said that the only rules for everyone here were completely different. The only rule is when all cities should have a layout, when the layout should include zoning, including the historical part of the city. The only rules for everyone when they're all going to the competition, not as prescribed, that there might be a competition for each other, but you can't have a competition. It's not the only approach, it's the different approach. It's 10 years, as I said, it's represervation of the market, when the same people will be working in the market for years, and the new players, the new business, maybe the more advanced one won't be able to enter this market. So once again, I urge you not to support this law, but to prepare such a law with communities that would suit people's interests and that would honestly set clear rules for the game in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u50	Thank you. Please give the next speech by the national deputy Sevrukov. Please, Mr. Sevrukov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm still speaking, and I'm asking for the support of bill 2702d, a bill that will be worked on by the committee, which is exactly what all the remarks that are being made today in the hall have been trying to compromise, to create compromise, and as far as I'm concerned, the bill is completely considered, and it's addressing all the issues that the previous speaker was talking about. If there are moments, they can be reconciled peacefully between the first and the second readings. Because if the bill isn't adopted in the first reading, we're putting it off for years again. This process has been going on for two years now. We were in a kind of chaos today, and we had to put order in the centers of historic cities like Lviv, Chernivci, Kiev. We need to put an order in advertising outside of the population, which today is not in every regulation at all, and, there, just piracy is present today. Here. That's why we need to adopt a bill, work on it, if there's any comment and support the committee compromise bill 2702d, I urge everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, I now invite Mr. Litvin Vladimir Mikhailovich to the final address, the last in this discussion. And I ask everyone to return to their jobs. As we understand from the discussion, there is a full understanding of the need for a legislative solution to this issue and there is an understanding that from first to second reading, the necessary amendments can be made to the bills under discussion. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u53	My dear colleagues, I understand that this bill is one of the best that awaits the Ukrainian society, especially the people in cold homes now, who have been brought up in the snow, waiting for us to adopt this law. It says very loudly that order is needed. Thus, there will be no need to create disorder or order. That's the first one. I think there's enough reason and opportunity not to do what's going on right now. But I'm going to talk about advertising in a different way. We are all happy now that the Ukrainian side won the International Arbitration Court and Ukraine received $2 billion,560 million. It's a question. If Naftogaz had been promised before, heads of state, heads of government, that if there was a positive arbitral decision, we would definitely make a decision to lower the tariffs on utilities, then, obviously, looking forward to that, they would have to say that this promise, which is extremely objective, urgent and necessary, would be fulfilled. And we're doing what our famous poet Boris Ilchi once said: "Half in the mouth, end in the mouth." So, dear colleagues, I think the Supreme Council should also take an appropriate decision right away, oblige the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take this into account, forget about the requirement of the International Monetary Fund to raise municipal tariffs, the price of gas. And I think that would show that these devices, these agreements that are signed between the factions of cooperation and one column march, will have a lot of support from the Ukrainian society. Unfortunately, in other words, all of this will be a reminder of people being deceived. And I think that would be the visual best commercial for Ukrainian society. An advertisement that shows that power is heard understands people. Too bad you can't say it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. I'm asking the factions to maximize themselves. In a minute, we're moving on to the reception, so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Now, the closing statement is that of Victoria Sumar, chairman of the committee. Please. Turn on Victoria Sumar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head! This is actually a replica, since I was mentioned in the reply. What I want to tell you. Is this an urgent question? Well, if it hasn't been resolved for over 10 years and if we have what we have on the streets of our cities, it's obviously urgent that the previous speakers don't speak here. Next. Next. What are the interests of the community, colleagues? I think it's the interests, first of all, of ordinary Ukrainians who walk the streets and who see the mess that is on the streets of Ukrainian cities today. But I have great respect for the organs of local self - government that represent people’s interests. And I'm convinced that we're on the committee, for second reading, we're going to find a compromise, both between market participants and local governments and between the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And today we just need to start this reform. Then we'll look for consensus and we'll find it. And the clear rules in this market will be, and the order there should be. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u56	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. Please come into the hall. During the discussion, we had a thorough discussion, and I'm sure we should support the bill, and it only votes as a basis. And we're going to be able to do all the conflicting points that are in the bill to discuss and accept for the second reading. And that's why I'm asking, colleagues, now it's agreed to support this bill that the committee is offering us to accept as a basis. So please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws (to improve the legislative regulation in the field of external advertising) (No. 2702-d) on the basis of a committee proposal. Based on the base. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, carefully every vote, vote, please support. [[11:06:19]] For 176 Do you support the committee again? Yeah, I'll put the next two. 2702 on the ground. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:06:52]] For-161 2702-d on the ground, please vote. Please vote, vote. [[11:07:24]] For-157. Most of all, he did get the bill proposed by the committee. Now I'm going to put him back to voting on the ground. If it doesn't, I'll at least ask you to return to the committee. I ask you to concentrate, most of all during the vote, I have drafted a bill that supports the committee, 2702-d. I ask you to support me, to return to his consideration, to vote for the basis, for the return. Please support, please vote, vote, please support. Return. [[11:08:08]] For 190 So, here's the proposition: to the committee for re-reading. Will it be supported? Why? You just want to destroy the bill, my friends? You can work with the committee. Let's all go back to the committee for work. I'm saying, all three of you on the committee for work, do you support? Colleagues, I'm making the next offer and I'm asking everyone to support it. All three bills are returned to the committee for re-reading, okay? Agreed, colleagues? We vote, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine 2702-1 and "d" (all three) on the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll support you, colleagues, carefully to save the bill, back up. [[11:09:27]] For 214 214. Again. Please concentrate, colleagues. By factions, please show by factions. My colleagues, once again, I'm stressing this is a completely compromising position on the committee for work. I'm asking you to support the committee for further work. Colleagues, I'm asking you once more to back everyone up. I put to the vote not to lose the bill, send all three, all three bills to the committee for preparation, for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, please support, vote. Colleagues, stand by. [[11:10:27]] For 218. And the final offer: the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. So, colleagues, I'm proposing that all three bills be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. Colleagues, don't let the bill get rejected, support this proposal. All three are subject to a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:11:08]] For 218. Colleagues, I will once again propose that all three bills be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote, please support! We only needed a few votes. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:12:06]] For 201 Draft laws 2702, 2702-1 and 2702-d were rejected. And we are moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Community Printed Media on Improving the Mechanism for Reforming Printed Media (6,560). And, colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to support this proposal. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:12:56]] For 148 I didn't get it. I would like to support the consideration of the reduced procedure of 6560. Please vote, please support. Please support the abbreviated. Please be supportive. [[11:13:35]] For-154 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Sumar Victoria Petrovna, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u57	Dear colleagues and the Ukrainian people, today it is a shame to observe such voting in the hall, apparently, and to try to delay consideration, because the Anti-Corruption Court is ahead, and it has just been an open lobby vote, when many experts' years of work have been completely disillusioned by people who have direct interests in the field of external advertising. And we're going to call these people, and we're going to invite investigative journalists to show which of the real interests of the factions have now been most lobbying here. I think it's not over, because we have order in this area. With regard to the following bill, he organizes issues related to the reform of printed media. As of January 1, 2019, the reform is to be completed. Beyond that, there's an unregulated array of issues, especially when the authorities don't actually let the groups sail on their own, when they're deprived of their ability to have a room, to have equipment. The bill was also prepared with the participation of experts, with the participation of editors of printed editions. And it actually provides for a solution to a whole series of problems that arise. And in particular, the fact that the local government actually translates these newspapers, doesn't release them, doesn't make them self-published editions, they translate them into different communal structures that exist in local governments. It's a bill that's supposed to clean up. And please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u58	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich is from the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u59	The Self-Help Group will support this important initiative. And once again, I want to point out that what happened to the bill that we were just looking at is a disgrace to those people who lobby for their personal interests in the same city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u60	From the People's Front faction, Princely Nikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u61	Thank you. The People's Front faction will support this bill because we believe that it is unacceptable to exert political influence through manual media. At the same time, we stress the need to preserve those cultural and cultural media that were, in particular, in the sphere of the Ministry of Culture's administration, these are the magazines that relate to the theatre, the newspaper Ukrainian Culture, and we will do everything we can to preserve them, and so that the newly created Institute of Books will be able to continue publishing these newspapers. The bill itself is supported, we call for a vote in favour of, I support colleague Sumar, and I condemn those people who have actually collapsed the previous bills that regulate the placement of external advertising and order in our cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u62	Thank you. And now, colleagues, attention, messages! Now there's going to be a closing statement on this bill, and then there's going to be a vote on this bill, and after this vote, I'm going to immediately propose, as it's scheduled for the daytime, that we vote in favour of including in today's review a draft decree on the recognition of illegal elections in Crimea and an anti-corruption court. So, colleagues, minutes from 5 to 7 in this room, there's going to be a vote on the inclusion in today's order of the anti-corruption court, and then immediately to its consideration. I'm making this announcement so that no one can say that they didn't know, they didn't know, they weren't in the hall. I report that in five to seven minutes, there will be a vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the inclusion of the day-to-day anti-corruption court and for its consideration. Call your friends, call those who sit next to you so that everyone knows. This vote will be followed by the whole of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u63	Absolutely! And I'm very much asking the factions to maximize their MPs so that we can get a positive vote. I've made a very clear message, and I'm asking everyone now in 5-7 minutes to do the preparatory work for the vote. I now give the floor to the representative of the Opposition Block, Igor Mikhailovich Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Bill 6560 provides for complementary ways of reforming printed media. Thus, reforming, as a legal person, by making an exception from editing members of its labour force into a business subject with a name, purpose, language, and so on and so forth. But it is important to emphasize that such an appointment involves the creation of a new legal person, but the legal person who is being appointed does not stop his activity. We're going to create a confusion and instead of democratic principles, we're going to have a fight for information space. This is our point of view, and we believe that this bill cannot be supported. But I want to go back to the last 2702 bill on amending some of Ukraine's laws on external advertising. It was very sad that the bill had three authors, and it did not take effect. But he does testify to another matter. Look, there are not only representatives of the opposition bloc, but also representatives of the so-called coalition. Yes. You can't even uphold your laws today. You're creating all the conditions today for someone to claim that today's Parliament is ineffective. You're creating a reason to say you don't have a coalition today. And in this situation, I am addressing the chairman of the Supreme Council. Andrew Volodymyrovich, remember what was the reason why the MP’s in touch with Long? Not for financial abuse, but for breaking the Rules. I urge you to comply strictly with the rules. Because today, the so-called taccompanion has come up with a coalition that will turn you in tomorrow and violate the criminal case for violating the Ukrainian Rules Act. So stick to the Rules, do not go tens of times. Stand up and be on the side of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u65	Thank you. The discussion is over. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Community Printed Media on Improving the Mechanism for Reforming Printed Media (No. 6560) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote and please support. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:22:48]] For 199 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Dustenka's Block 81. 63. Colleagues, do you support the committee for re-reading? I want to ask the factions that didn't vote: do you support the committee first? Will it be supported? I'm putting forward the next proposal, which is foreseen by the regulations, and I ask everyone to support it, please maximize the possibility that draft Law 6560 should be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize your mobility and vote. Please encourage me to re-read the committee's first reading. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. I'm asking you all to support me. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:24:03]] For 201 The next proposal is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I ask everyone to support this proposal. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:24:35]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Draft Law 6560 has been rejected. And, colleagues, we are now moving on to the agenda of the day session so that we can look at them today. The first is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international co-operation in connection with the illegal preparation of the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied part of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. Our statement is extremely important, the committee has worked on it, and it is fully in line with all the factions. And the position of the Ukrainian Parliament is extremely important, and today we have to vote on it. And I ask, colleagues, to support the inclusion in the agenda of today's plenary session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:25:51]] For 233 233-yes. Decision taken. Next. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign nations and parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the political repression of the Russian Federation against Ukrainian citizens as a result of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the release of political prisoners. An extremely important decision that we too today have to make, prepared by all factions, prepared and agreed upon by the committee. And I'm asking her to support and remind me, after that, the Anti-Corruption Court. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I'm putting the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (8064) to vote on the proposal to include in today's agenda a decision. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[11:27:09]] For 239. 239 — yes. Decision taken. And now, colleagues, we are going to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary and the decision of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. This is the most important issue not only today, it is a great challenge for the Ukrainian Parliament. And I am confident that the Ukrainian Parliament, which has voted all the anti-corruption laws that have been in place for us on the day-to-day, will now support this law, which has been passed by the President of Ukraine, as well as alternative laws. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in today's agenda a draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court: 7440, 7440-1, -2, -3, -4. And please vote and please support, colleagues. Please all take up jobs and please maintain a focused and coordinated approach, colleagues. Please take the job. Mr. Spivakowski, I'll wait. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:28:53]] For 259. 259, yes. And we're moving on to the draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Colleagues, I suggest we have a mobilization by 12:00, with a reduced procedure to consider. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. We vote yes. So that by 12 o'clock, while there's concentration, there's force, we can look at it. [[11:29:27]] For-140. I'll put her back up again. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm asking you to mobilize. Please support the review of the reduced procedure 7,440 and the alternative procedure. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Keep it up, fellows. Please be supportive. [[11:30:07]] For 148 Two votes. Not everyone was. Guys, I'll put it back on. My colleagues, I'll tell you very simply, we'll lose our votes in an hour of deliberation. [[Noise Nodes]] Don't be silly! We need a trial! We need a trial, not your political games! We need an anti-corruption court. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. Don't do any intrigue here. Let's vote, colleagues. Voice to voice. Vote. [[11:30:49]] For 155 Decision taken. And I'm starting to invite one reporter, four of them. And I ask you to work together, to work together, to work together, and to make decisions. First report by Deputy Chief of Administration, President of Ukraine, Philatov Aleksija Valeriyovich. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u66	Good afternoon, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine has brought to your attention the draft law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. The creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court as the Supreme Special Court in the system, in the sole system of the judiciary, is provided for by the Judicial Act and the status of judges, which the Supreme Council approved on 2 June 2016 and which took effect simultaneously with the amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the judiciary on 30 September 2016. In accordance with the Judicial Act, the activities of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should be governed by a separate law, which is now proposed for your consideration, which is now proposed for your consideration. The bill proposes that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court be established as a permanent court of higher specialized jurisdiction in the system of the judiciary. Its task is to exercise justice in order to protect individuals, societies and states from corruption and related crimes, as well as to control the judicial investigation of such crimes. As a result of these tasks, corruption crimes that are defined by effective legislation, namely article 45 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which in turn refers to articles 191, 262, 308, 312, 313, 323, 357, 410 in the case of acts provided for by these articles, committed by abuse of office, as well as articles 210, 354, 364, 364; 365-2, 368 and 369. The bill is intended to extend the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court throughout Ukraine. This court will consider matters related to his knowledge as the trial of the first and the appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u67	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u68	The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will consider the case referred to it as a court of first and appeal. The judges of the court are assigned to the competition. It is proposed that the Board of International Experts from seven members be established with the WCC on the basis of proposals from international organisations with which Ukraine cooperates in preventing and combating corruption. The bill foresees a requirement to ensure transparency of competition procedures and, inter alia, video and audio-fixing and real-time broadcasting of all CCS meetings and relevant councils. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u69	Thank you very much. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, a respected society, it is a pity that we have found the racers a complete procedure for discussion, but for an anti-corruption court we cannot find. So I want to propose my presentation, it's shortened, but I want to ask you to let me finish it. Dear colleagues, respected journalists, honourable chairman, while the whole world is fighting corruption, Ukraine is leading all top ratings on corruption issues. Today, we hold first place in the world at the level of bribery and corruption in business. We are still in the tail of an authoritative international rating for the perception of corruption, just a few points round Kyrgyzstan and Honduras. And our position in these important world ratings from business to happiness is already a direct result of corruption. If you were looking at the latest statistic, you saw that today 44 percent of Ukrainians consider corruption the most serious problem in the country. In addition, the vast majority of the population, 80 percent, consider the fight against corruption to be unsuccessful and 46 percent a total failure. Recent studies have also shown that about a quarter of those surveyed have been bribed personally or involved in corruption in their family. Of those who gave bribes, one in three did so in hospitals. Sadly, one of the most corrupt organs is called the court. And importantly, almost half of the Ukrainians see no institution actively fighting corruption in Ukraine. And the formation of an anticorruption court is open to citizens to trust only representatives of anticorruption social organizations and experts from Western countries. So, honourable colleagues, in general, when we talk about fighting corruption in Ukraine, we need anti-corruption reform first and foremost for ourselves. And the problem is not that one of us requires the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, the issue is that Ukraine has the image of a deeply corrupt country. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u71	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u72	So today’s fight around an anticorruption court means much more than fighting corruption. This is a struggle for the principle of a new Ukrainian court that was trusted by at least 9 out of 10 Ukrainians, not the way it is now. Now let's do a model on. The anti-corruption court we're proposing. This, first, will be the Supreme Special Court, not an extraordinary one, as recommended by the Venice Commission. A higher-ranking anti-corruption court will execute justice as a court of first instance. The decision of the court will be appealed to the Anti-Corruption Chamber of the Criminal Court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u73	Ten seconds, just say goodbye. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u74	We can discuss how to create an Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine. So it turns into a farce, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u75	Thank you. I gave him only words to say two finals. The next is the Ukrainian national deputy, Captain Olena Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u76	Thank you very much. Colleagues, in fact, today every Ukrainian has to understand that corruption takes at least 10-15 percent of the real salary every year, it's thousands of dollars that every Ukrainian receives because corruption prevails in Ukraine. We've heard many times that it's a deadly disease in society, we've heard that it's an endless horror, we've heard that it's a mentality, that it's a historical consequence. Many causes of corruption have been negotiated and debated by various experts and society in these times. But in fact, corruption is the only reason that today's criminal group is living and flourishing, a large criminal group that's being used at the expense of a budget that's being used to exploit the resources of the state. That is why today is a historic day. I'm not saying that the Anti-Corruption Court will beat all corruption in the country, no, but the Anti-Corruption Court can break the chain of senior officials who for 27 years robbed the state and Ukrainians and prevented them from living a better life. We have passed this bill and it is fully in line with the structure of the President's bill, but it's prescribed in such a way that it takes into account all the requirements of the Venice Commission. This symbol, this sign, we wanted to show the President that he couldn't fool society, that he wouldn't fool people. A bill can be drafted in such a way that the Anti-Corruption Court is independent, that judges can be selected by independent international experts and there is no reason to refer here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u77	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u78	Thank you. And there is no reason to refer to a violation of sovereignty or other reasons. There is a possibility to write a bill in this way that it will fully comply with the Constitution and we will get that anti-corruption court that will finally break the circular message in the higher echelons of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u79	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Lucenko Igor Viktorovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! We have an unprecedented opportunity in Ukraine's history to experiment, to try to create a real, real court of Ukraine, the first in history! And I want this chance not to be lost with you. Several alternative bills have been put in place for this purpose. Because, of course, the president's bill is just a perfect opportunity. We'll never have an independent court if we go the way the President proposes. Ukraine has, unfortunately, been a feudal structure that has its main significance for all these years -- the influence of the monarch, the president of the courts. There was always a telephone law, there was always Mr. Portnov at Yanukovich, now his name is Philatew, there were always calls and court management. And we finally have a chance today to stop this shameful practice that makes us not a European country, but an Asian country. Therefore, we need an independent competition commission composed of experts in the fight against corruption, in the field of the law of theory, in the field of law of practice, in the field of legal activity, who can objectively assess those candidates in those judges who want to be judges of this most important court. This court has to judge the corrupters who are also in this hall, who are on the road to the Bank’s. This will be the most important court in the country. And certainly this competition commission will determine the fate of our country for years. So independence, independence and once again independence of choice! They must be representatives of the public, they must be representatives of qualified communities that select competitive judges, not under the supervision of the President of the High Council of Justice! That's why I'm asking you to support my bill. Let's finally start this discussion, and in this discussion, we'll very quickly come up with an understanding of who is who. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u81	Thank you. The drafters completed the presentations. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to the report. Mr. Ruslan! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll find out. While you're at it, Ruslan, I'll find out. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, Caplin. Turn on the microphone for two minutes. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u82	Sergei Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Here, all of us, the multimillion-dollar community of viewers, our fellow countrymen have seen how they wanted to hide our left Anti-Corruption Court Act, the most progressive and one that would really protect the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is an anticorruption court? Along with the NAB, my dear compatriots, this is the sickle and hammer that we can put away the head of Ukrainian corruption. But the nonsensence of this process of court-making is that the most corrupt body in the country of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is creating a private Anti-Corruption Court, but our team will vote for all, without exception, bills. We see the need to start this process of modernizing current legislation in the fight against corruption. We're going to have a powerful faction in the next call, and we're going to modernize the law that I'm sure will be passed today, and it's really going to work to combat corruption in our country. I would like to state separately that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau plus the Anti-Corruption Court are new pensions, new salaries, new roads, new hospitals. It's a new country. This is an alternative to the International Monetary Fund and its requirements, absolutely oligarchic requirements. Today, by creating such an organ, by recruiting normal judges, we can actually create an alternative to borrowing cabal loans from the International Monetary Fund. We can start building a new country, a country that the Ukrainians had dreamed of for 27 years. I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of this innovation, to vote in favour of the Anti-Corruption Court, to support the NAB and to plant corrupters, in particular, to clear the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this disgraceful phenomenon, particularly political corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u83	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee, Ruslan Knyazevich, is invited to speak. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, yesterday at my meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was approved by the relevant decision of yesterday, I held a meeting where I reviewed a series of bills on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court with similar names, alternative bills. The Bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, number 7440, was introduced by the President of Ukraine and four other alternative bills were introduced by other entities of the legislative initiative, such as the People’s Deputies Pisarenko, Kaplin, the People’s Deputy Sotnik, Vojtsicka and other colleagues, as well as the National Deputy Igor Lucenk. As we considered the bill, our committee came up with the following. The creation and operation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court was provided for in accordance with the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, which was adopted in June 2016, if we recall. And after that, there were two bills in the Supreme Council that proposed their vision of the creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to implement this rule of the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. Let me remind you, these are the Bills of Registration of 6011 and 6529. Since the Committee on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, expressed its warning about the subject's ownership of the bill, and considered it appropriate to return the bill as submitted by an improper subject. Our committee took note of the appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the appropriateness of the appeal to the Venice Commission, requesting that it be properly seen as to the appropriate subject of the bill for the status of such a court and the proposal for its formation and activity. In its conclusion, the Venice Commission confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u85	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u86	Confirmed the position. [[B in m in s a l in]] She confirmed the proposal that the bill should be withdrawn, such as that of an improper subject of the right of the legislative initiative. And she recommended, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, that the right vested in the Constitution of another subject of the right of the President’s legislative initiative be exercised, recognizing that this is the only subject that is fit and able to submit an appropriate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u87	Thank you. So, colleagues, now it's a recording: two in, two in, against. Please participate, and please record for the performances. Colleagues, we have 12 minutes left, so please be brief. From the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Well, to my profound conviction, first of all, a huge disgrace to this Parliament is how this law is adopted by a reduced procedure, without any discussion, in fact without any discussion, without a thorough professional analysis. The disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament is that Prashenko has sent an absolutely obvious corrupter to present this bill in this Parliament. This is a humiliation to the Ukrainian Parliament, we must not allow it. As far as the substance of the bill relates to the requirements. "Paternality" has introduced an alternative bill, this is the bill of our colleague Igor Lucenka, which we will support with our faction, because we believe that the first requirement to stand before an anti-corruption court is its independence. Lucenka's bill ensures such independence. Unfortunately, the basic bill that Peter Poroshenko passed does not guarantee the independence of the Anti-Corruption Court, but makes such a smoke of the curtain showing to society that this court is, in fact, an appropriate one on the right of the High Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice, will assign the people loyal to it in order that this court does not notice corruption at the highest level. Because today the country’s corruptionist No. 1 is Peter Poroshenko. And there's his closest environment to corruption. And what this law wants to do, first of all, to protect itself from responsibility. It doesn't want to fight corruption, it wants to create some kind of wide, some kind of look, some other post-Tamkin village to be able to say, well, look, the court is like fighting corruption is, but there's no results, corruption in the city. So we will demand that if the bill of our colleague Igor Lucenka is not supported, we will ask or demand that the first reading be included in all the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u89	30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u90	Thank you. In order to be included in all the drafts during the first reading of the requirements of the Venice Commission, as expressed in this bill. We need to clean up double morals from the Ukrainian Parliament. If we are saying that the Venice Commission is an important, expert institution, then we should respect all the conclusions of the Venice Commission on all the bills, whether we like them or not. Because it looks different to us. If necessary, we are told, look, the Venice Commission is not a step to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u91	Thank you for your position. Please, Oleg Lazko, leader of the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The first is how anti-corruption laws are being considered, demonstrating in this country that it is a simulation of the fight against corruption, not a real fight against corruption. The other one. The consideration of this bill in the Supreme Council proves the right position of the Radical Party when we did not vote in favour of any of the laws passed by the President of Ukraine on judicial reform, because it is actually the same imitation of judicial reform as what is being done here today. Because you're all over the country, your esteemed colleagues, and you're demonstrating that three years of discussion about judicial reform was a fraud against Ukrainians. Because there has been no real judicial reform, there is no justice in the courts, either. And there is an awareness of the so-called judicial reform, a new composition of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, where the authorities have extended a large part of the judges of the Supreme Court. A clear example: Bogdan Lvov, a mare corrupter with no place to put samples, today a reformed judge who seems to be judging in a new way, only bribes take the old one. Now for the real fight against corruption. A real fight against corruption is a change in the electoral system, the elimination of a corrupt marauder. The real fight against corruption is the adoption of the Law on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine. The real fight against corruption is the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions of the Supreme Council, as a parliamentary instrument for monitoring executive power, according to the President of Ukraine. And finally, the main foundation and nutrients for corruption are poverty. There is no country in the world that can overcome corruption by being poor. Therefore, the only way to overcome corruption is to raise the income of Ukrainians, overcome poverty, develop the national economy and create jobs for people to earn in their own country, not abroad. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u93	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u94	This will be a real fight against corruption. Therefore, the Radical Party team is proposing a real judicial reform – the release of all judges and prosecutors, the election of new ones in transparent competitions, the adoption of the Law on the impeachment of the President of Ukraine, the interim investigators of the Supreme Council and the anti-crisis economic recovery plan, which will give Ukrainians a job and a decent salary. This will be a real fight against corruption, not one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Valery Pisarenko, who will be speaking from Rebirth Group. I'd like to introduce you to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u96	I want to finish my speech, which I started. Of course, it's a very big problem that we're not discussing, and what is the Anti-Corruption Court? Unfortunately, I don't think there's so many people here who understand what they're going to vote for right now, what's this trial, what's it made up of, and why is this fight for this trial? Because if you've heard my colleagues speaking, they're only talking about those who will control this court, not what this court will do. I want to show you that there are a few fundamental issues that our Western partners are talking about today and that we are talking about all the experts who will then observe the establishment of this anti-corruption court. Who will be the judge of the anticorruption court, who will qualify for it, and who will appoint him and then release him? Who's going to control it, so Ukrainian, let's say? So if we don't have this discussion with you and we're going to talk for two or three minutes about how badly we want to fight corruption, we're going to have the same world ratings, we're going to be between Honduras and Papua New Guinea. So for today, I do propose to return to the professional discussion, and it wasn't even on the committee, where we moved very quickly to get to the hall today. But we took this step to discuss here, what is an anti-corruption court? We wanted to show who might be the judge of the anti-corruption court, and we wanted to show what our projects could do, and what could our Western partners and the donor countries of Ukraine do? If today is the language that they want to control these judges, let us see the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is written, and who is the judge who can exercise justice in Ukraine? So there's a lot of questions and unfortunately there's no time to discuss them, everything else is not going to be a professional discussion, as we've asked you today to reform electoral legislation, and we've also had a closed and non-professional discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, please welcome the leader of the Party, the leader of the People's Front faction, for two minutes as well. I'm sorry, then you, I'm sorry, have already announced. Please, please. And we're going to continue the session for 15 minutes because we're not getting involved in the discussion. Then the Opposition Block, of course. Okay. It's my fault, because I've been distracted here, Mr. Burbak, and now on our record list goes "The Opposition Block," I just announced earlier. Please, Mr. Storm, you're two minutes away. And then the ones who didn't sign up. I'm sorry, this isn't the opposition block there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues! IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Who in this room has doubts that Ukraine, as it was said, is a deeply corrupt country? Who has doubts that the ratings that state that we are in the last place to fight corruption are false? Is it true? Really. Now, please tell me, in which country in the world, even in the same Honduras, might the fight against corruption in the form of the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act have been reduced? What is a reduced procedure? In two minutes, we need to explain the essence of the law. This is the same thing that four bills were discussed on the committee in a quick order yesterday. Who works on the committee knows what a bill is, and it's an anti-corruption court. People look forward to fighting corruption and have great hope for this court, so what quality can this court be, which will be governed by such law? The answer to the obvious is that in two minutes you want to adopt a quality law, I'll tell you, you're not learning anything, you know, you're a coalition, like a double at school, you've adopted medical reform in a reduced procedure with falsification. What do you have with her? I'd like each of the 240s to go and say I voted for medical reform. You'll have the same thing with an anti-corruption court. This is a disgrace, even a disgrace to Ukraine! If you want to make Ukraine a laughingstock, continue in that spirit. And I'll tell you, Peter Alexiyovich, I'm going to turn to you, don't you see that this Parliament has exhausted itself, exhausted itself in everything: intellectually, professionally, organizationally. And think very well about whether you want to lead a state where Parliament is a laughingstock in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u99	So now there's three shows left -- this is the faction Front, the block of Peter Dustenka and Self-Help. 12:00! Colleagues, I'm asking you, so we don't lose our voices in the hall. Please! I'm going to give the word "front," then "self-help" and final, "Peter Poshenko's Block." Please, Mr. Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I appeal to all the responsible deputies in this session room for us to now vote in favour of the bill on the establishment of an anti-corruption court. We're starting to discuss it on a field, a professional training committee site. And the People's Front faction will support Bill 7440, and I think, and I'm confident that between the first and second readings, we will take all the proposals of the Venice Commission into account, namely that we need to allow our international experts and our international donors to participate in the public council to participate in the discussion of future candidates. We need to take down the qualifications for future judges, which is 5 years of internship, because society now doesn't fully trust the courts. We need to make this court work effectively and withdraw the proposal for two-thirds of the judges' election in order for it to work. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to delay time because we should all vote together and start creating an anti-corruption court like all the other anti-corruption bodies in the higher echelons of power that were initiated by the Yatsenuk government. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Self-help, please. Who's gonna be self-help? Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u102	Self-help will vote in favour of the President's draft in the first reading. We are confident that before the second reading before final approval it is necessary for the court to focus only on top-corruption cases, and it is imperative that when judges are selected, the veto is in our international partners, because the Supreme Council of Justice cannot say "no" to corrupt judges. But it's a decision that's very important to make. For this decision, people have been in Parliament for more than four months. For this decision, many of our international partners are ready to help Ukraine. [[Applause]] And finally this decision will give society what it doesn't see -- justice. Yes, I know, there are a lot of people here who are afraid to become defendants in an anti-corruption court, but for Ukraine's sake, it's worth making this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, and the final intro is the head of the Peter Dusty Block. And in two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Invite all the deputies into the hall. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, I urge all to unite and support the presidential bill on the establishment of the Anticorruption Court. I want to remind you once again that it was from the President's initiative that both the NAB and the NAZK were created, and this reform to combat corruption began, although very many people now want to adopt it. And the faction of Peter Prashenko has always voted the most in favour of all the bills that dealt with the fight against corruption. As for the authors of alternative bills, I urge them now, after they support the Presidential Bill, to come to the committee and cooperate fruitfully in order for the bill to be further developed. And two more little comments. You know, we've heard a lot from this rostrum about the fact that we don't have to vote for judicial reform. And I've always wondered, so these people wanted to leave this cemented judicial system of Yanukovich-Portnov? After that there were a lot of waves: let's not get into the agenda – they included, there will be no committee discussion – discussed. You don't have to spread fairy tales. And the next. When we talk about tents under the Supreme Council, you know, I'd like to look carefully at all the votes that apply to the Anti-Corruption Court, one that has already happened today regarding the inclusion of this bill for this consideration. Whether these people took part in this vote is a big question. Thank you. And I urge everyone to unite and support Presidential Bill 7440 on an anticorruption court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u105	Thank you, colleagues. And we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs, come into the hall. Colleagues, I also call for a vote of 7,440 in the first reading. All discussions can be held between the first and the second readings. All the recommendations of the Venice Commission that we've sent out, which we've received, we'll be able to discuss between the first and the second readings. Now it's important for us to take an extremely important, extremely decisive step in the fight against corruption in our country, and I urge everyone to take up jobs and to support the committee's proposal that we adopt Bill 7440 as a basis. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. It's just people coming along. Colleagues, let us show the determination of the Ukrainian Parliament to fight corruption. I'm voting on the draft law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (7440) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Each voice has meaning. Vote. [[12:06:39]] For 282 Decision taken. Congratulations, my friends. (Noise in the hall) Factions, factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 101, People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 2, Self-Help – 22, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 19, Will of the People – 8, Rebirth Party – 15, colleagues. It was a joint, coordinated decision of the entire parliament. Comrades, welcome! This is another great victory. Now more quickly, I'm sure the committee will be able to look at all the proceedings, and we will be able to move to a total vote for the Anti-Corruption Court in the near future. Congratulations, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u106	And according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Let me remind you that in 30 minutes we're going to move on to the Crimea and the Ukrainian hostages that we've included in today's agenda. So I ask everyone to come to the hall with discipline. At 12:40, we'll continue our work. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u107	So the colleagues, the time spent for the break, is over. And we're moving on to the decision-making process. First Order on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to International Co-operation in connection with the illegal preparation of the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied part of Ukraine in Crimea and Sevastopol. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:43:23]] For-69 66-yes. So let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Let me remind you, after that, we will move on to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges (7441). Now, let's make a decision. And, MaximBurbak, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! On March 18, 2014, in the Kremlin, a group of criminals led by President Putin attempted illegal annexation of part of Ukrainian territory. Simply put, they gathered to steal Crimea and Sevastopol in Ukraine and try to secure it with illegal endorsements. Just four years later, President Putin decided to appoint his fake election on this very day. For Putin, this day is a symbol of rematch. To him, this date is a more vivid example of the greatest theft of his life. By assigning his own election to that day, President Putin shows to the world that he despises the present world system and the civilized rules of international coexistence. He despises Western democracies and guarantees of security. He challenges the world because he believes in his own impunity. We have no right to observe silently this cynical and presumptuous behavior that poses a direct threat to Ukraine and Europe and to the whole world. That's why the People's Front faction of Arsenius Yatsenuk initiated a parliamentary review of an appeal to international society to warn and warn of the danger of illegal elections by the President of the Russian Federation in temporarily occupied Ukrainian territories. The main idea of our document is that the election of the President of Russia in Crimea and Sevastopol is illegal and will have no legitimacy. They are worthless in legal, political, and human sense. We urge the world not to acknowledge the results of such a vote. Our faction also highlights the fundamental principle of law. The law cannot be derived from wrongdoing. This means that the illegal election of the President of Russia to Crimea will have a major impact on the outcome of such elections in general and make them illegal in general. The People's Front faction urges the Supreme Council to support the draft of our appeal. We are also initiating the preparation of a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 18, this year in Crimea and Sevastopol to assess immediately the activities of the Russian occupation authorities. We expect our position to receive the widest possible support among international partners. I would like to remind you that this is the subject of recent negotiations by the leader of our political power, Arsenius Yatzenuk, in Washington. We also want to draw the attention of our Western colleagues to the need to strengthen cooperation to protect human rights in the occupied Crimea and Donbas. The urgent need to protect rights and freedoms is the only denominator for both themes of Russian aggression against Ukraine, Crimea, and Donbas. Our faction calls upon all colleagues in the Supreme Council to join forces to initiate to our partners the idea of establishing an international field to discuss the state of human rights in Crimea and on Donbas. To our conviction, this year’s headship of our great friend and partner, Canada, in the Great Family, creates an enabling context. We demand the mobilization of all the foreign political forces of Ukraine to step up international cooperation to support our people, who are currently temporarily under occupation and repression by the Russians. Please have your support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u109	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Please record the question. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u110	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, I don't think anyone here has a big secret that we have in 2014, taking advantage of the fact that the President is a fugitive and the country of abandonment has gone rogue at this time, Russia has gone rogue and, let's just put it this way, has gone softly to the Crimea. So they did it in a rather common way for themselves to introduce the so - called hybrid war and so forth. I think we all need to unite, and yet all of us need to push against the aggressor to get the Crimea back as soon as possible. One of our demands and the way we press is to vote in favour of the above-mentioned bill, in favour of the decree. So I urge everyone to stop going to the cafe, call their colleagues to come to the hall and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u112	Dear colleague, Mr. Igor, I thank you for your stately, patriotic position. And once again, I urge all deputies, please come to the hall and confirm with your personal vote that we are against the aggression of Russia and we are against the people of Ukraine, who are now temporarily in occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u113	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u114	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear reporter, don't you think, of course, this is all right and well, it's already at some point, but, you know, when we talk to our international partners, we hear a lot of reprimand from them, "Why haven't you broken the friendship agreement with Russia yet?".. How, then, do you think, is it possible that if we wanted and demanded an international response, it would be wrong and more consistent to break such an agreement with the Russian Federation? And the debate about the border is actually, and the sick is relevant because the border issue is defined by another law. And would it be more consistent and more honest in front of their own citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u116	Thank you for asking. And I also have a question. Why is Alfa Jazz Festival still going on in Lviv, which is taking the initiative of an aggressor country bank? [[Applause]] I also have many questions. Do not put an obstacle to the adoption of an important decision that will make elections illegal. Either you want to deliberately delay your time, or you want to be a pianist on this subject. You either support, or you don't support, it's your personal right. I believe that every deputy and citizen of Ukraine must join this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u117	Your Honor, you have been asked a question that you have not answered. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Shkrum. Please, Boris Tarasyuk. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u118	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to thank my colleague Maxim Burbak for the initiative and the introduction of this draft regulation and appeal. This is an extremely important subject. At the same time, I want justice in order to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs held two meetings, which took account of the changes and adjustments that eventually led to the final text. This decision and appeal to the international community are extremely important especially on the eve of the illegal election of the President of the Russian Federation in the occupied area of Crimea. And we condemn this act. We hope that this decision will reach governments and international organizations, as a result they find it illegal to elect the President of the Russian Federation in an area occupied and illegally annexed by the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Please. Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u120	Well, I have to answer that question. Mr. Secretary, I am very grateful to you and to your faction for having joined in the drafting of this decree; for having made so many rights, taking into account your experience in international institutions. Mr. Minister, I'm grateful. And we made a compromise decision. And for that, I'm ready, and I've also made concessions to vote as many deputies as possible for what might be a constitutional majority. Because it's not just the People's Front, it's a problem all over the country, and we need to be the only front to defend our territorial integrity. And that's why this decree will also show our citizens, who are now temporarily in occupied Crimea territory, that we're with them, that we're not forgetting them, that we're finally going to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Please invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the People's Deputy, Hanna Gopko. Please. Thank you, reporter. You can sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! This is an extremely important initiative, and I hope today in the session room you will support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs. That is, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the above-mentioned draft Decree on the basis and generally approve the text of the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with all the amendments and additions proposed by the members of the Committee. The draft decision proposes to express the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on illegal voting in the planned elections of the President of the Russian Federation on 18 March 2018 in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Also call on the Security Council and the UN General Assembly, the OSCE, the EU and NATO, other international organisations, parliamentary assemblies, foreign parliaments and governments to take appropriate action in this regard. So I very much hope that today we will be able to adopt this determination. And we also address and ask all of our foreign partners, parliaments and governments to take all possible measures to prevent the authorities of the Russian Federation and the occupying administration from holding elections of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. We also ask for additional sanctions against the Russian Federation, as well as personal restrictions on those involved in the organization of illegal voting in the temporarily occupied area of Crimea and Sevastopol during the elections to the State word of the Russian Federation in 2016 and to the President of the Russian Federation in 2018. We also ask that sanctions be imposed against those individuals who are committing systematic human rights violations in Crimea and Sevastopol. And to step up joint efforts to force the Russian Federation to comply fully with the UN International Court of Justice order of April 19, 2017 in the Ukraine vs. RS case, as part of the proper human rights protection in temporarily occupied areas. And it is also important for us to consolidate the pressure on the Russian Federation for the start of a permanent and direct international monitoring of the situation in Crimea by the United Nations institutional and convention bodies of the Council of Europe, the OSCE and international organizations, and to monitor Russia's compliance with its responsibilities as an occupying authority, in accordance with International Humanitarian Law. I wanted to thank the faction of the People's Front, Mr. Maxim Burbak, as well as the members of the Committee, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also the representative of the President in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for preparing and finalizing the text of this decree, this appeal, to thank all representatives, our parliamentarians in various assemblies, who are actively working on all the sites to create a platform for the depopulation of Crimea. And it's really a very good initiative to call on Canada, which heads the Great Seven, to devote a single block to humanitarian issues that has been initiated and proposed, particularly by Mr. Daniel Lubkowski. So, colleagues, I think that only by working together can we make an effort to increase the pressure on Russia and that in the matter of liberation, particularly Ukrainian citizens, this will be our next decision. That's why I wanted us to vote now, because there's still this decision. And given one important ratification with Moldova, there will be an important meeting tomorrow so that we can do it today. And I welcome everyone to the Anti-Corruption Court on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u123	Thank you. Let us move on to a discussion from political factions and groups. Please prepare to participate in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Svetlanu Zalitschuk. Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I would also like to start by thanking my colleague Maxim Burbak for such an initiative as well as for the leadership and members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There was actually a working group, there were jobs, I thank you for having been accepted and for some of my suggestions. But I would like to highlight another proposal that was made in writing, but in the discussion. She's not yet counted, I'd like to ask her to put her to an extra vote before she approves the entire application. It's about calling on our partners, generally governments, parliaments, presidents of countries to specifically refer to the President of Russia, who will be elected as a result of illegal elections and in the Crimea. So I would now like to announce the points that I will ask for to be put to the vote. First. Avoid the exercise by the President of Russia of elections that have been illegally expanded in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, which is part of Ukraine's sovereign territory in its internationally recognized borders, state and labour visits to UN member countries. The President, the Government and Parliament of the United Nations Member States do not accept invitations or make official and official visits to the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, literally the day before yesterday I and Ahtem Chigos, took action at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva. And we've been talking about that no country can get to know the President who's been elected as a result of the illegal extension of these elections to the territory of another sovereign state. And we asked these ambassadors, would they go to recognize such elections if this were to happen in their countries? I want to say that we need to be gradually determined. Indeed, our partners look forward to such action. So I'm going to ask for a vote on our call for countries to avoid visiting their territory of the illegally elected President of Russia and, for their part, they would not accept an invitation or make a visit to Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u125	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u126	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. This is not the first decision that our political power is initiating in this room that relates to illegal illegal elections in the occupied Crimea. We had previously raised questions, and colleagues in Parliament supported us on the illegality of holding elections to the so-called State Duma of the Russian Federation. This decision was appreciated in the countries of our allies, and they clearly saw the position of Ukraine regarding the occupied territories. Russia is Ukraine's original enemy. Russia has repeatedly threatened Ukraine’s territorial integrity, and I am convinced that it will continue to threaten. The occupation of Crimea, the occupation of Donbas is only part of the Russian plan to destroy the Ukrainian state and eventually to destroy the Ukrainian nation. Those politicians who are now to come after us should remember that the first task of our foreign and domestic policies is to return occupied territories, as well as to destroy our original aggressor, who is preparing for the destruction of our nation. And I'm backing up this thesis again, and this decision needs to unite us, because this is our common national interest based on the existence of the Ukrainian State, which will protect us from the territory where the Ukrainian nation lives and ultimately the honour of the Ukrainian nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u127	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies. People's deputy Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction condemns the holding in Crimea, the Ukrainian Crimea of the illegal election of the President of the Russian Federation and any authority, the occupying power in our Crimea. The Radical Party faction demands that the international community strongly oppose Russian aggression against the Ukrainian State. Because the next after Ukraine, as in 2008, was consumed by aggression against Georgia and allowed Russian warships to exit the Black Sea Crimean ports to shoot Georgia, and then a Russian aggressor went to Ukraine. If today the international community for trade with Russia, for its own wealth, gives up an annex to Crimea, gives up a portion of Donbas, the following countries, then don't give up why the Russian boot is playing the next countries -- the Baltics, Poland, Moldova and as far as they're concerned, to La Mansh. That's why we condemn the election in Crimea. We demand an international response. And we require the signing participants of the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding to fulfil their obligations to Ukraine. In 94, Ukraine was the only country in the world that voluntarily surrendered its nuclear potential, the third nuclear potential in the world. Together, Britain, France, China did not have as many nuclear warheads as Ukraine had. We have demonstrated our desire for peace, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the interests of people throughout the world, and we have given up our nuclear potential. Under the guarantees of integrity, under the guarantees of respect for sovereignty, to the borders of our state! Today these guarantees are severely violated, and we are forced to ask our partners or Javelins, or to help someone else instead of asking them what Ukraine needs to do to repel aggression. We want Russia to have such a price that Russia just can't bear and have to return Crimea and Donbas to Ukraine. Finally, about the sanctions. My distinguished colleague, Hanna Hopko, calls for sanctions against those who organize elections in Crimea. I want to tell you about the threat to national security that's inside the country. We ask that others impose sanctions, instead of allowing the Russian oligarchs to earn money in Ukraine. On March 6, a 4G - frequency tender was scheduled for sale by the National Liaison Commission. All three bidders are affiliated with Russian oligarchs, and that means the full monopoly of Russian companies and Russian oligarchs on telecommunications.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u129	Thank you. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u130	This means the full monopoly of Russian companies and Russian oligarchs on Ukraine’s telecommunication space. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNBO Turkinov, the head of the Grissak Bureau to stop a tender that threatens the national interests of Ukraine, the life of military personnel that threatens Ukraine's national security. Stop those tenders that give you the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u131	Thank you. The replica. People's MP Gopko. 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone, please. People's MP HannaGopco.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u132	Thank you very much for having taken note of my call to increase the pressure of sanctions on the Russian Federation and on those involved in the aggression in Ukraine near Putin. But what I'm saying is that your colleague, the national deputy, first of all, does not attend the Yes Pinchuk Forum, your colleague is not participating in the Alpha Jazz Festival, which is funded by one of the Russian oligarchs! Your colleague calls for such oligarchs as Ahmethov, who under Putin's protection would make Donetsk, such as Ephraim, Medvedchuk, according to all our laws, to sit in prison behind bars. And that's why I'm not only calling for Russian oligarchs, but for Ukrainian oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u133	Thank you. It was supposed to be a replica, not a performance. Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u134	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. First of all, I want to say that the Fatherland faction supports the adoption of this important appeal addressed to the UN Security Council, the UN General Assembly, the OSCE and other international organizations, as well as the governments of the world. We think it's very important that this address focuses on the criminal signing by the President of Russia of the annexation act of the Ukrainian Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This crime is actually the date on which the election is planned cynically, the presidential election in the Ukrainian Crimea on March 18th. We condemn these intentions and believe that the elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the President of the Russian Federation will have no legal effect and the international community will not take account of their results. We thank the Bureau of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights for their position not to take part in the investigation of these elections in Ukrainian territory. We would also like to point out that those organizers of these elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should be subject to additional restrictions and sanctions. And I'm paying attention to these Ukrainian citizens in the occupied area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who, in the event of their participation in election committees, will face criminal responsibility under Ukrainian legislation. The elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea cannot go through, they are illegal, and we condemn their conduct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u135	Thank you. There'll be factions. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u136	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the self-help faction will vote in favour of this decree. But I think so. And once again, I would like to stress that Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, has to carry out its own task. Here's the first question that I want to rhetorically announce again in this session hall: why hasn't most of the Supreme Council broken an active friendship agreement with the Russian Federation? We can go to the international community dozens of times, but very often they say, if you're demanding some kind of reaction from us, an increase in sanctions, why haven't you broken your friendship agreement with the Russian Federation? So you're going to say you're fighting or you're not going to fight? I support my colleague Chubarov, who says that we need to turn to the high-ranking, respectable people of the civilized world not to associate with Putin. So let us also appeal to Ukrainian officials, politicians, the President of Ukraine, so that he too does not communicate with Putin. So what will we look like: we demand one from the international community, and our first officials communicate with Putin. I think Ukraine needs to do its job. To finally determine the policy of Crimea, the policy of those Ukrainians, the Crimean Tatar people that remained in Crimea as a result of the occupation. Because today, these statements, I'm sorry, make too little sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u137	Thank you. The replica. Please, Rephat Chubarov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u138	But it doesn't work? Does it work? Dear colleagues, look, I want you to be very considerate of my offer. Avoid, avoid, avoid making Putin's country visits to government and work visits, and do not make work and government visits on their own. This is quite different from any contact or other form of communication. And so I'm just going to ask you to support this. And we have world powers that are actually doing this, these are the Baltic countries, these are some European countries, they don't want to see Putin, they don't make work visits to Russia and they don't take it. Why we cannot urge the nations of the world to follow such an example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u139	Thank you. We're done talking about factions. Please, let's move on to the discussion from the National Deputies. Please hold the recording. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Moseschuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u140	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. This is an extremely important decision that determines the attitude of the Ukrainian State towards the aggressor country that occupied Ukrainian territory. But without the rights offered by the honourable colleague of Chubarov, it's ineffective, it's essentially impractical, it's just like to say, just to say and to say the fact. We know Putin's statement that he's coming to vote in Crimea. In doing so, he wants to legalize the occupied territory for his own benefit. It is therefore absolutely logical that, after his vote in the occupied territory, Ukraine should address all the leading countries, all the civilized countries, that the hand of the murderer, the hand of the invader, cannot be served, and any diplomatic encounters cannot be negotiated. Moreover, Crimea is now used as a base in a hybrid war against Ukraine as a base of terrorists. That's what I'm saying. And I'm also saying this because one of the terrorists who attacked me and terrorized me under Espreso is hiding in the occupied Crimea. So we have to figure that out. And the decision has to be as hard as it is. Because if we do not put these questions on the order of the day, why should the world itself do so? That's what we need. We need to isolate Putin. We need to isolate the aggressor country. Not the Americans, not the Germans, not the Chinese, but the Ukrainians. So we have to take it out and put it on the order of the day in the world. So I fully support the proposal and I also ask that it be put to the vote for inclusion in the resolution, so that it is not easy to say and forget tomorrow, and that it is an effective document that our international delegations, our foreign representatives and Ukraine in general could appeal to. The world must realize that Putin is a murderer and a terrorist. Russia is an aggressor country and a terrorist country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u141	Please, Yuri Bereza. Yuri Bereza, then Mr. Kirichenko the last speaker. Yeah, it's fine. All of it. You'll be the last speaker in this block. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back to the session room, because it would be rude if we didn't find the first time we could support this decision with a large number of votes. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u142	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Good afternoon, Ukrainians. What is important and important to us now? Now we're looking at more than just a ruling on the fair elections that Mordor is trying to organize in the Ukrainian Crimea. We are now primarily considering the attitude of the people's deputies to this issue. Because voting for this issue, especially on the left side of the hall, is on a gallery called the Fifth Column, which, despite all the inactions that Russia is making with Ukrainian Tatars in Crimea, despite the direct aggression and occupation that is taking place on Donbas. If you request the Foreign Service and see who was in the occupied Crimea last year, for example. And as these so-called "tourists" will vote, including from the Supreme Council Hall, it's pretty important. This is quite important not only for Ukrainian citizens who are in Ukraine. This is very important for those citizens who are now in the occupation of Russian. How to look at these dirtbags who are coming to the Crimea, they are spoiling Ukraine. And I'm going to be wondering how many so-called pro-Ukrainian "Occupy Block" will vote for that. How many votes will the Supreme Council vote for? Because it's our job, as national advocates, that we scream from every rostrum day and night, not just from the Supreme Council's rostrum, from all the international sites that Crimea has occupied, that we have stolen Russia, and the theft must bear responsibility for it. And that's why I support this decision. The People's Front will vote in favour of this decree. And I urge all the deputies to return to the Supreme Council Hall now and to carry out their direct constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, the last performance in this block, remain. O’Kay, last performance, O’Kay, last performance by Mr. Linko. But in four minutes of voting, I am very much asking you to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u144	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The Radical Party is voting in favour of this decree as well as all the laws and regulations that are aimed at fighting the aggressor country. We have adopted a bill of recognition at the level of Russian law by an aggressor country. By the way, at this time some politicians in this law were photographed with Russian ambassadors instead of voting for the bill. And these meetings, by the way, on an international level with Russian ambassadors, with Russian politicians, and so on, they're going to Moscow, and they're legalizing Russian occupation here, and Russian aggression. It's a disgrace to Ukrainian politicians to have any meetings and contacts with Russian politicians. Moreover, we propose and demand that the Supreme Council approve a bill that prohibits the entry into Moscow or Russian territory of Ukrainian politicians and senior officials. I don't know how I can go or my colleague Oleg Lazko, or Igor Musiyczuk, or can Andrew Lozov go to Moscow? Because we're going to be planted there because we're criminals, because we're fighting Russia, and some of us are free to go, deal, charters fly there. What can be arranged in Russia’s territory? Of course, about betrayal, about national betrayal. What can be arranged with Russian oligarchs abroad? Of course, how on blood, how to destroy Ukraine, to come to power, and then, together with Putin, to rule here. So we call for a vote in favour of this decree, we call for a vote in favour of bills that prohibit Ukrainian politicians from going to Russia. Keep going. We've adopted an important law on the reintegration of Donbas, but its main part should be the dissolution of diplomatic relations. Because all of our declarations and appeals to the international community, they are declarative. Because society is watching, but how is Ukraine acting? Every country in history, when war starts and even before war starts, breaks diplomatic relations, is a signal to all other countries that can't have diplomatic relations with that country. That you can't talk to her because she's an aggressor, and she started a war. So we need to complete all necessary actions, what we can do, as national MPs, to adopt all the relevant bills and to carry out the mission to the Ukrainians, to protect Ukrainian interests and to win the war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u145	Dear lady, head! Dear fellow national MPs! Russia not only violates international obligations and laws but also violates Ukraine’s laws by holding so - called elections of the President of the Russian Federation in Crimea. And to ignore that fact, we have no right as parliamentarians who are chosen by the Ukrainian people. And by this appeal that we are about to vote for the international community, we are now calling attention to the fact that the Kremlin's feudal and pear junta regime, which has taken power in the Kremlin, is now reassigning itself through so-called presidential elections. They do not only ignore international law but try to make it legitimate. For that to happen, not only does all have the Ukrainian Parliament, but all international organizations are determined to condemn these elections, not to recognize them in the territory that belongs to Ukraine. And do everything possible to make sure that the entire Putin regime, which is fuelling military aggression against Ukraine, is toxic to them. They must be unrecognizable in every civilized country. And by voting for this appeal, we have to make it impossible to hold the 2018 election of President Putin in Ukraine. I call on every national MP to come to the hall right now and vote in favour of the decree initiated by the People's Front. This is a duty to our country, to our Ukrainian people, and we must do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u146	Thank you, colleagues. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, ask the factions to invite deputies into the hall, we're moving on to a decision. Please, take up your jobs. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. So I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to an international society in connection with the illegal preparation of the election of the President of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied part of the territory of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the amendments that the People's Deputy Chubarov has made to the transcript. On the basis of the Committee’s proposal and in general, taking into account the Committee’s proposals (7546). Please vote, please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I already said it under the transcript. Well, just be careful, I just said. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. With the repairs of Chubarov. [[13:25:56]] For 255 It's been decided. [[Applause]] By factions, please turn it on. And, colleagues, now: of those that we include in the agenda we have yet another decree, but there is another draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (7441 and 7441-1). I'm conducting a rating vote on the willingness to consider it in the hall. I'm putting a 7441 rating vote, which we've included in the agenda, which is important for the conduct of anti-corruption law and court. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:26:57]] For the 220. Colleagues, let us pass quickly, and then immediately the prisoners. We'll be right there. Colleagues, this law is important to us. That's how it's supposed to be. Knyazevich, come in, head of the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] Head of the committee. Please, one minute, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, this is a law that allows us to implement the basic law that we voted on as the basis for No.7440. This is 7441, which is actually implemented and provides for a series of legislative changes to different procedural codes and other legislation, such as the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. So I would very much like to consider it and accept it as a basis, as it is necessary to prepare them for the second reading in the complex. Without this bill, the basic bill will not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u148	Colleagues, we've got half an hour before recess, we're completely overtaken by both bills. So let's go into 7,441. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We'll be able to get through the short-term procedure. Please support 7441, reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:28:53]] For-183 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to represent the Deputy Chief of Staff of the President. Somebody call him. Ruslan, call Filatov. He's, he's waiting, he's just waiting here, now I'm inviting him into the hall. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Philatov Aleksija Valeriyovich. Let's get through it quickly and efficiently, colleagues, that's it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u149	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, you have been presented with a bill to amend the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges for the purpose of a comprehensive and irrefutable settlement of matters of the organization and activities of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, as well as guarantees of the activities of its judges. This project proposes to amend the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges, in particular to detail the regulation of the activities of the Chambers of the Higher Specialized Courts in order to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission on the institutional autonomy of the Appeals Chamber, and proposes to establish that the Appeals Chamber of the High Court is acting on the basis of institutional, organizational, human and financial autonomy, and that it has a separate competition for the appointment of judges, the availability of a separate budget programme for the financing of its activities, and the presence in the apparatus of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of a specialized unit which also has a separate structural autonomy. They rely on the head of the Appeals Chamber in addition to credentials. Predicted to the ordinary secretary of the Trial Chamber, also the authorization from the House of Appeal to the authorities of the State, local authorities, and others. In addition, it is proposed to identify the higher specialized courts as principal managers of the State budget of Ukraine, as well as to define a separate line of expenditure for the administration of the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Specialists in the State Budget of Ukraine. It is also proposed to settle a number of others involved in the proposed changes in procedural matters. The bill is submitted separately in view of the requirements of the Judicial and Judicial Status Act, which requires amendments to the Act only by a separate law. Thank you for your attention and please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Captain Olena Sergiyevna. Colleagues, this is actually a technical bill. Let us quickly pass it so that we can go to the prisoners. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u151	Thank you very much. It's technical, but it's inextricably linked to the previous bill on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, and I'm still going to take this opportunity because there wasn't a proper discussion of the bill, and I understand that we were in a great hurry to get the votes, but to talk about creating a key in the anti-corruption court system. People need to be made clear that today, on the first reading of the bill, there are still four key points that are set out against the recommendations of the Venice Commission. First. This is the absence of independent experts who would provide us with transparency of choice, which would exclude the possibility of leading the selection of judges during the formation of an anti-corruption court. The other one. The president proposes that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court actually deal with, excuse me, cases of three stakes, or minor corruption cases. We will insist that the cases of high-top corruption that are being investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau should refer solely to the specialization of this anti-corruption court. Third. It's a clear-cut question. Because, as the President's bill is now prescribed, he won't be working, sorry, not in a year, not in two, not in three. We understand that the President has a strategic task of delaying this to the next election, both presidential and parliamentary, but better that it never happens. But we will strive and demand that clear terms, once the Anti-Corruption Court is in place, be laid down in the Anti-Corruption Court Act. And the fourth. This bill is not currently being considered. But for some reason, when the President passed the bill, he forgot about the changes to the Budget Code, which was guaranteed the independence of the financing of the Anti-Corruption Court. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u152	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u153	I insist that the Bill under our authority 7483, which provides for amendments to the Budget Code for the Independent Financing of the Anti-Corruption Court, should also be considered in the vote for the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Otherwise, it'll be a fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u154	Thank you. And the co-reporter is the head of the Knyazevich Ruslan Committee. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I'll try very quickly. The point is that when we adopt changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the judiciary, we have foreseen the ideology that was implemented in the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, particularly in its fourth article on any change to that law that is fundamental to the functioning of the judicial system, can only be made by the introduction of a special law amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges and cannot be part of any other law. That is what prompted the subject of the President's legislative initiative to provide for amendments to the Judicial and Judicial Status Act by a separate law, which is essential in view of the introduction of a new judicial institution, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Therefore, and given what we voted today at the meeting and the committee recommended that the draft Law, introduced by the President at the registration number 7440 on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, be taken as the basis for the other Presidential Bill 7441, provides for the changes that come out of this law that we have taken on the basis of, logically, and the committee recommends, and this presidential bill is to be taken as a basis for passing it on to the committee and we could have two bills prepared comprehensively for the second reading. I ask you very much to support it on a basis and to refer it to the committee for further work on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u156	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Markevich, please. He's handing Sidorovich over. Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u157	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! Lawyers have this phrase: The devil is in detail. It is the devil who is hiding in another bill that has been corrected in our version. In the process of creating the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, there are no trifles. Each nuance determines whether it will be a real anti-corruption court to fight against top-corruptioners, or whether it will be a cefay, a building on which the word "anti-corruption court" will hang, but where there will be no real fight against top-corruptioners. But I want to pay attention to the moment that my colleague, Olena Sotnik, was talking about, reporting on the bill. Without the financial independence of an anti-corruption court, it will never be able to become independent. We need to make it clear that those people who come to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will actually put their lives in danger. Their financial independence, their personal security, must be essential elements and ensure the effectiveness and independence of this court. Without all these elements, all the other things are just meaningless. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support our alternative bill 7441-1, as well as when considering the bill on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court to include the issue of amending the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u158	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u159	Vitaly Kurilo, 113th constituency, faction of Peter Prashenko. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" will support this bill, and it will support Bill 7441. These are generally sufficiently technical changes that are made to the Courtship Law and do not contain any critical changes, comments. But these changes have to do with what we have adopted in the first reading of the Law on the Establishment of an Anticorruption Court today. In spite of all the shouting that power against the Anti-Corruption Court, its creation, this bill was adopted today in the first reading by the votes of the majority, the votes of the coalition. And I would like to point out that the bill proposes to identify the higher specialized courts as the main directors of the state budget of Ukraine and to provide a separate line of expenditure for the maintenance of the High Court of Appeal. Thus, the adoption of the bill will provide a comprehensive definition of the legislative principles for the functioning of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. In view of the above, please support Bill 7441. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u160	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich, please. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. I reiterate that in a way that is in principle very important for the State to decide on the creation of an anti-corruption court, it is absolutely shameful for this Parliament, it is absolutely shameful that the corruptionist Prashenko sent the corrupter Philatov to present the Anti-Corruption Act. It's just a humiliation for the Ukrainian Parliament. By the way, I'd like to respond to what I've just been told here by a representative of the so-called coalition. I looked at the results of the vote: "BPP" is 101 and "The People's Front" is 67. A total of 168. So, what kind of voices do you have here? Nothing here is accepted by your voices. This is accepted by the voices of the people who want an anti-corruption court for Ukraine. Who really want to fight corruption, not create fairy tales. Today’s consideration of this bill shows that no fight against corruption is involved. Have any of you carefully read the name of this law? Has anyone read the name of this law? It sounds like a bill amending the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, and then paying attention! - in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. Did you pass the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act? No, we didn't. What do you think this Supreme Council is doing? Does the committee know what the text of the Anti-Corruption Court Act will be, and will this bill be put into motion? Should have been done by law and by law. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, not taking the matter to heart without a decision of the Supreme Council, but still having a broad professional discussion, professional, I emphasize, rather than political, and solving those issues that are necessary for the creation of an independent one, I stress this key word, an independent anti-corruption court, which would be able to pass honest, fair judgments on top cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u162	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u163	To make honest, fair and legal judgments about top-corruption, and not to tell us stories that appear to be true, the President's law does not have to take into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and this law needs to be adopted because there are appropriate decisions of the Venice Commission. So, guys, as the Ukrainian saying goes, "You either take the cross off or act differently." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u164	And the closing act is Anointed. Yeah, okay. Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u165	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to tell everyone that this law is definitely not technical. Since this bill is necessary for adoption in order for that draft law that we adopted on the first reading today to be implemented and to work in a normal way, we must adopt this law. Why do we do this on breaks? I don't get it. Because we had to vote this law as a basis right after the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act was voted on. Moreover, we cannot, we cannot, more precisely, as legislators adopt these legislative changes at the same time as this bill. Since amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges require a distinct procedure. That's why we're adopting this law today, it's not technical. But as for the Law on the Establishment of a High Anti-Corruption Court, there are also a number of observations and questions before this bill. Today, I think it was a mistake to include the position that we are planning such a legislative act to eliminate all the territorial administrations of the State Judicial Administration. I think it's a wrong decision. Since the head of the Government’s judicial administration is still thinking that this could lead to a de facto collapse of the judicial system. In particular, local general courts, which are now fully funded and provided by the local authorities of the State Court. Therefore, dear fellows! Now these Bills 7,441 and 1, they're almost identical so let's base it on 7,441. And to the second reading, we will remove all inaccuracies, both in Law 7440 and in Law 7441. We're voting on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u166	Thank you, colleagues. This is going to be a base vote, it's going to take place in two minutes. I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies to the Hall. I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. For two minutes now, the Radical Party has not had a word and a vote, please. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the real fight against corruption is, first of all, overcoming poverty. The Radical Party team demands the power to raise Ukrainians' salaries and pensions so that people do not go abroad and look for opportunities to earn money, but rather to earn money in their own country. One element of overcoming poverty is reducing the price of gas. If the government has told us so far that there is no such possibility, after yesterday's Stockholm Arbitration decision, where Ukraine has won and received $2.6 billion from Russia's Gazprom, we offer to the government where to direct these funds. First of all, to energy-efficientize to account for government budget costs, because people don't have money, to run massive replacement programs for boilers, windows, doors, repairs for heat, boilers and, as a result, reduce energy efficiency, and as a result, to double the cost of utility tariffs so that people don't pay the last time they pay for the utility. In addition, we demand that the government cancel its own decision regarding the price of domestic gas associated with the price of import parity. And so the cost of own gas is 2,000 dollars, and the Ukrainians are paying 8, 10,000 dollars. We demand from the government after the Stockholm Arbitration decision yesterday that there is no reason to increase the price of gas for citizens, to give up this shameful idea and not to raise the price of gas. In addition, in this year’s budget, 70 billion dollars are spent on energy-generating and less than 1 billion dollars, 70 billion dollars on subsidies, and less than 1 billion dollars on energy-generating. The costs that we're going to get from Stockholm's arbitration must be directed towards energy-generating, increasing the production of our own gas, as a result, to lower the price of gas for citizens and lower tariffs. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u168	Let's move on to making a decision. Once again, this is a law that is accompanied by the Anti-Corruption Court Act, which is only accepted as a basis. And actually, the head of the committee made it clear, so I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. One minute, finally, the head of the Knyazevich Committee. And please come into the hall, take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Head! First of all, let me turn to you and ask you to make comments to those who speak out of the rostrum, who allow themselves to be accused by a voice, of the right of legislative initiative, and of their representatives. And frankly, this is contrary to the Rules, in which case we simply have to deprive them of their words. I'd very much like to talk to you about that. For charges against the committee. With regard to the charges against the committee, I would like to tell you that you can read the conclusion of the Venice Commission, but the basic requirement of the Venice Commission, in black and white, is that such a bill should be tabled by the President. You can't use alternative bills to refer to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, it's cynicism of a higher degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u170	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support only on a basic basis. Colleagues, it's a technical, accompanying bill to the Anti-Corruption Court, it's just as important, it's also a sign. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to support me. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. Barna, please return to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, proposed by the Committee (7441) as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote and please support as a basis, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:49:15.]] For 203 If I do, colleagues, pay attention! The committee. I'll bet the next one is 7441-1. I'll bet the next one is 7441-1. Please. The next one is 7441-1. [[13:49:52]] For-123 So, colleagues, 7441 got more support. Now I'm going to offer to go back to him. I'm asking you to focus. So I'm voting now to go back to voting for Bill 7441, and he's got more votes. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to focus and support. So, colleagues, please concentrate, please return to 7441, who has gained more votes. Colleagues, back up! I'm asking everyone. Who voted for the Anti-Corruption Court, back up, colleagues! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[13:50:55]] For-200 Colleagues, we can't lose him. Let's go to the pre-work committee. This will be fair for the committee to work on. Colleagues, supported? To the committee for re-reading, so it won't be rejected. (Noise in the hall) Colleagues, to the committee for processing. Is it supported? (Noise in the hall) I can't hear you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, I ask you all to support Bill 7441's draft as a committee for re-reading. Do you support this proposal, Sergei? You'll support it, won't you? Guys, you can't screw up! Colleagues, the committee for further work. Please vote, please support the committee for re-reading. Please be supportive. [[13:52:11]] For 201 We have the last option, the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Can you hold it? Will you support the author? Can you hold it? I'm talking to you, will you support -- the author, the subject of the legislative initiative for further work? President, President, President. Support me, Oleg, support me, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, we can't lose the bill, I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm voting on Bill 7441, the author of the legislative initiative on pre-operation, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. Let's make a positive vote show that we don't allow the court to collapse. Please support, vote, support. Let's vote, colleagues, carefully each voice. [[13:53:16]] For 226 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I'm announcing that I'm continuing my work for 15 minutes. And now the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and parliamentary assemblies of international organizations condemning the political repression of the Russian Federation against Ukrainian citizens as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression (No.8064). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:53:59]] For 207 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised to hear your cries now that it is necessary to vote without discussion at a time when the families of the hostages are waiting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we are here from this rostrum to call the names of those Ukrainians who are the political prisoners of the Kremlin. And so it's very important to say what this decision is about. In fact, I want to thank Parliament that we have really received a lot of documents, will turn to the parliaments of the world, to international organizations demanding to put pressure on Putin, in which are the keys to all Kremlin prisons and prisons in the occupied territory, and to release the Kremlin’s political prisoners. And it was absolutely fair for the President of Ukraine at his press conference yesterday to say that the only person that depends on when Ukrainian rivals are in Ukraine is Putin. Thus, the process of freeing the hostages is so difficult. But this is the first time that Parliament is now adopting a decree in which both Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars are named after each other in the prisons of the occupied Crimea, in Lefortovo, in other prisons of the Russian Federation, and we have some terrible cases where citizens from Lugansk or Donetsk were taken to Rostov and then to Siberia. I'll call it that now, for example, Mikola Sizanovich. And actually we also have to call it in this list. And of course these are the Kremlin's branches that are now being held in Russia. We have to name them by name and demand that the world push Russia to free the hostages. I'm asking you to give me one minute to inform you of the situation in which the question of freeing the hostages of the Kremlin is now. In fact, tomorrow we will have, if it doesn't crash, God forbid, good news about the two Ukrainians that are being held in the Russian Federation. And we're all looking forward to this positive news. At the same time, so far, all of ours are ineffective.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u172	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u173	All of our efforts to liberate OlegSentsov, Roman Suschenk, Alexander Kolchenk, Karpuk, Clich, Greeb, and other Kremlin political prisoners. Was there a chance to free them? Maybe there was a chance to get someone else out, because the Russian Federation is never really interested in its citizens that it sends here to kill Ukrainians. And that's when we were handing over Alexander and Erophew to Russia -- two -- maybe we could get someone else out. But we remember that at that time we had a blocked rostrum and only one person was required to be released. And in fact, this pressure to release the two of us was violated. But what I'm saying is that about two dozen Russians are being held in Ukrainian prisons. And I am officially turning from all of us to the Russian Federation, taking them away, giving them only to us -- Oleg, Alexander, Roman and everyone listed on this list. 20 Russians who came to kill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u174	30 seconds to complete. Oh, they're done. So, colleagues, can we support the decision? I ask you to vote, please support. One minute, head of the committee. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. From the spot, AnnaGopko, from the spot, from the minute. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please come into the hall, take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u175	Colleagues, I ask you to accept this decision is very important with these changes and additions to the text. In particular, add Mikola Sizanovich, mentioned by Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, here. And also the additions to the text of the appeal that were prescribed and discussed yesterday on the committee with the defenders. And thank you very much, we will also work in the framework of the Magnificent Act to increase the pressure on those people who are involved in the persecution of Ukrainian citizens. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m0.u176	Thank you. I am voting on the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states and parliamentary assemblies of international organizations to condemn the political repression of the Russian Federation against Ukrainian citizens as a result of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation (No. 8064). The committee suggests that the Committee also be based on the Committee’s proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:59:11]] For 241 Decision taken. Colleagues, the next question we have is extremely important -- about copyright, important. I'm betting on a rating vote. Who supports us moving to this issue, the rating vote, 7466, the Euro-Integration Bill. We can take a quick look at it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Ratings. Please be supportive. I went on for 15 minutes. I'm reminding you. [[13:59:50]] For-182 182. We won't risk it. Let's not take any chances, colleagues. We held a very important vote and made important decisions before lunch. I would like to report to you now that at 2 p.m. in the towers of the third floor of the session building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street of Gruszewski, 5 there will be a review of the documentary "93: Battle for Ukraine". The author of this film is a fighter of the 93rd Brigade, a professional journalist, Wade Vadim Jaroslavovich. During his service in eastern Ukraine, he kept a huge amount of documentary video and created this film after demobilization. I invite everyone to watch the movie. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4:00, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
