ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please come into the hall. Please take up jobs. We're getting ready to register. What's the mood? Please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:14]] 307 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And today is the birthday of our colleagues. Eugene Yuriovich Ribczynski Let's say hello to our colleague. And Helen's Sergious Captain. Mrs. Helena, welcome to your birthday. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome a colleague. Welcome to our government. I remind you, today is the hour of questions to the government. From the government today there will be a speech by Eugene Mikolaiovich Niszczek, then by the factions and questions from the national MPs. And I invite you to my word. Excuse me, Mr. Eugene, I'm sorry. I have two factions on my desk. Hold on, Eugene. I have a statement from two factions for a break, but they're willing to replace it with a speech. So three minutes from the factions, and then Eugene the Destroyer. From two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," to the words, the leader of the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to state a situation that requires an immediate explanation by the healthy forces of Parliament. The People's Front initiated the establishment of the TSC Parliament to investigate the activities of the Tobin agent Medvedchuk. I would like to remind you that this is the person who has repeatedly expressed himself in favour of the federalization plan of Ukraine; this is the person who was in favour of a direct dialogue with the leaders of the so-called DNR, LNR; this is the person who criticises the EU Association Agreement; this is the one who demands neutral status for the country in view of the fact that the neutral status itself will leave Ukraine on its own with the Russian "führer" without the support of the civilized world. The one who demands federalization is the neutral status of Ukraine in the new Constitution; it is for whom Putin continues to capture new Ukrainian hostages, using them to legalize Medvedchuk as a negotiator from Ukraine with the right to unimpeded flights to Russia, while the airline with the aggressor country is closed to other Ukrainian citizens. The very broken fates of Ukrainians taken captive by the Russian militants are used to enable Medvedchuk to fly to Putin on a chateau and to receive instructions to destroy our independence inside Ukraine. This is the same Medvedchuk who today has focused on the pool of anti-Ukrainian propaganda television channels, which, spitting in people's eyes, call the Dignity Revolution a coup d'état, the Maydan participants a criminal, and the Berkut, who shot the Celestial 100, is called heroes. This is not a complete list of Medvedchuk's credits to Russia. But do you know what scenario lies ahead? Even now, technologists, experts, and journalists are openly talking about Medvedchuk’s plans to take office as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the next election. With the powerful support of the propagandist holes incorporated into the Ukrainian media environment, the total deception of Ukrainians, the information aggression of Russian money, this scenario has a chance to be realized. Then we'll have an enemy of the country in the very heart of Ukrainian power. In view of what we have said, we are addressing the people's deputies, the factions' leaders, the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service: why is the only political force that is consciously and clearly fighting the threat of the Russian rematch our faction is the People's Front faction? Where's the voice of the WFP? The voice of the Fatherland, the Self-Help, the Radical Party? Dear colleagues, do I know many of you personally, who put your eyes to salt or scared so much that you're afraid to mention the bear's name? We ask the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich, why is it that the one who serves Putin is free to do business with the Ukrainians, and even as they say, he enters the highest offices, counting on the perfectly friendly treatment of their owners? Who's holding the Security Service's hand, stopping the investigation of the "friend Putin's" activity, as Medvedchuk calls himself? Be Courageous and Determined! Join the People's Front in the fight against Kremlin agents, we're not afraid. Join the creation of the Medvedchuk TSC. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u3	Thank you. A second statement from two factions, which is also replaced by a performance. Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u4	Dear Head! My address is rather to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Health. The point is, the recent February 15th competition took place. During the 2005 race, a young athlete suffered serious injuries: a closed fracture of the right buttock’s backbone with displacement. Since Zitomir was unable to perform a qualified operation, it was transferred to the National Children's Hospital, OHMATDIT, where a complex operation awaits her. Since this is an urgent matter, only 20 numbers were transferred to OHMATDIT. I am asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health, to give an immediate mandate to do everything necessary to save the life of this child, who, born in 2005, has little and will have, and hopefully will have, significant achievements in sports, will glorify Ukraine, and most importantly, will have a normal human life. I'm telling this kid's name to give the order right now: Homenko Sofia Viktorovna, born in 2005, is in the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. As you can see, parents are unable to pay for treatment and postoperative rehabilitation. I would ask that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health take urgent radical measures to give this girl a future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u5	Thank you. So I invite you to speak to Ukrainian Culture Minister Eugene Mikolaiovich Niszczuk. Please. Yeah, in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u6	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable Prime Minister, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Parliamentarians, Dear Ukrainian People! The New Year's and Christmas celebrations give a sense of joy, of the warmth of the family, and here I would like to focus on the word family happiness. And I'm happy to be able to go to this high rostrum on the day that each of us, even the little ones, thinks about the events of the year that goes by. Indeed, the New Year is approaching, the door is open to him, but crossing the threshold with good works behind him is much easier than when you think that something has failed, something has failed, something has failed. It was this year that we saw events in our culture that all of us went to after the revolutionary years. The Revolution of Dignity and the innocent victims of heroes, the instructions given to our government require a special responsibility. It was this year that our dreams began to come true. Decisions had been made, and events had led to a steep reversal in the industry’s management system. That's when you speak bureaucratic. And humanly, simply, we win over the leftovers of the owl. We will never go back to mental colonies, created conditions for artistic self-expression, and the state, sorry for such a squid, has returned face to face with people of culture, to a wide artistic environment. We are overcoming the disease of the residual principle, and this is because of you, honourable parliamentarians. It's the harmonisation of our relationship by formula: cultural initiatives, the production and adoption of laws, the creation of financing mechanisms, the execution of art projects -- that has a huge effect today. So in every art event that I'm going to talk about today, there's a fraction of your soul. In our acting school, there's an exercise called a motion picture -- it's a visual development exercise when you think about going through the last day, week, year. So let's take a look around and go along with you through the cultural path of 2018, month after month. So January is the month of holidays. But stop! We do not forget for a moment that there is a war on our earth, that Crime and the portion of Donbass are under the feet of gangs and Russian invaders, that our compatriots in the temporarily occupied territories live in inhuman conditions, conditions of terror, and that the invaders sow fear in their souls. We're going to pinch our teeth, we're going to see the fire of revenge for every Ukrainian who died in this hybrid war. Our artistic and cultural activities on the front and in the front zone are effective and effective. Not only do concert brigades, organized directly by the Ministry, regularly go to the front, our fighters are supported by the fighting spirit of volunteer artists, for which they have a low clearance. I would especially like to worship the legendary Adi Rogovtsi. From this high rostrum, I want to thank all those who carry out the great mission of art -- to heal human souls. To our heroes who hold back the enemy, defend our land, we owe it to ourselves to be able to live and create. I'm talking to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard, to contract volunteers. You're not just protecting our lives, our well-being, our children's and grandchildren's ability to go to kindergartens, to school, to study in our institutions, to work under the peaceful skies. Your mission is to defend culture. Each part of our earth is filled with history: beneath the earth — cultural layers, on earth — monuments. Our people are the bearers of the cultural acquisitions of generations, the material and intangible heritage, the vast array of traditions, phenomena, events. That's what you're protecting. Culture is life, and life is culture. Thank you, heroes, for giving us the opportunity to celebrate these days, to reproduce and to develop traditions. Our ancestors in the long winter evenings sang, Christmased, generously given away the folk theater, led a goat, played in Beberia - Melanca. So let's go back to the motion picture. January 2018. What interest was there, as and after all every other month? Davos, Switzerland: European Cultural Convention The question that comes into our lives, Bauculture, is the culture of an urbanized environment, its role in modern society, and the discussion of heritage issues in Europe. A presentation of projects called Small Towns is a big impression. In February, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Goethe Institute and the Ukrainian Institute of Cultural Policy, launched a project called the Academy of Cultural Leaders. The main objectives of the project are to support local actors from small communities and cities in their leadership role. Steps have continued to be taken towards the institutionalization of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Thank you again, national MPs who have passed the Law on the Establishment of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, which has radically changed the system of interaction between the state and the art environment. It was in February that the Open Board of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund was elected as the Fund’s Executive Director by the majority of the members of the Supervisory Board. On February 21, the government canceled the need to develop a historical and urban foundation (IMO). Since January 1st, 19th, the IMO Institute has been eliminated altogether. On February 21st, a briefing was held to summarize the phase of the first International Open Architectural Project Competition for a better project proposal for the "National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Sky of the 100th, the Museum of the Revolution of Dignity". The Ministry of Culture supported the initiative of the public organization ALEM to make the acquisition of the indigenous people of Ukraine closer to Europe and included the Crimean Tatar Ornek in the National List of Immaterial Cultural Heritage Elements. In March, a delegation from the Ministry of Culture took part in a meeting of the Council of Government of the European Foundation for the Common Film Production "Jewish". As a result, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to join the European program. In March, associated with the International Theatre Day, six leading opera and ballet theaters in Ukraine concluded an agreement on pooling effort, knowledge, creative potential, and collaboration in the field of theatrical activity. The Ministry of Culture supported the initiative of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT to create an artistic developmental space in an updated hospital. On a free basis, the curators and artists made this medical facility brilliant. On April 3, members of the government set up a memorial capsule with the participation of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine at the site of the construction of the second line of the National Museum of the Holocaust Victims. The 85th anniversary of the Holocaust is a celebration of a great tragedy that we should always remember. An international seminar called Cultural Heritage as a Resource for Development took place in March. On May 15th, the Multi-Disciplinary Forum "FreedomaCult" launched in Uzhgrad, which presented the most interesting socio-cultural projects and artistic phenomena in the Zakarpat region for two weeks. East and West together! "Donbas" by the famous Ukrainian director Sergey Loznice, created with the support of Derzkino, was awarded the award for a better director in the "Special View" contest at the 71st Cannes International Film Festival. In June, during the Second All-U.S. Conference "Culture and Creative Industry as the basis for a smart strategy for small territory development", a panel was held with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. June 19 was really a cultural day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We approved, in our second reading and in general, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage. Thank you for that. On the same day, you, the distinguished national electorate, approved in general the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act on the definition of the concept of "creative industry". As we think of the past, we are developing as a modern European country. On July 1, Sofia Square, there was a significant art international event, a concert of the International Project The Way of Friendship. Ravenna-Kiyev" is an outstanding contemporary artist, conductor of Ricardo Muti for American actor John Malkovich. A few days later, the project was repeated in Ravenna. On July 26, the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture held a second meeting of the competition commission to hold a competitive election for the post of director of the Ukrainian Book Institute. It was decided to recommend the position of director of this institution as president of the famous Publishing Forum in Lviv, Alexander Koval. The Institute fully started its work. In August, a briefing was held on the opening this summer in the area of the Metropolitan Garden of a unique archaeological monument, the remains of the fortification walls. On September 5, the government approved a list of patriotic films for production and distribution, which are supported by state finance. And on that day, the government approved a draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on Cultural Routes. September 25-27, in the cities of Beijing and Dunhuan, there were Ukrainian culture days in the People's Republic of China. The Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has ensured the presentation of Ukraine on the best sites in the Lower Heavens – the Gougun Museum complex (Prohibited City) and the International Cultural ECSPO "The Silk Road". In October, with the goal of rebuilding the carpeting industry as Ukraine’s oldest art trade, which develops only in the historical centers of Ukraine’s carpeting, the All - Ukrainian Center for embroidery and carpeting is being established. On October 4th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft Ukrainian law to ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I especially want to thank all lobbyists of the law. On October 5, Kiev presented a project called "New Life of Male Recording," which left literally a number of these masters. And we're reinvigorating this tradition. The Ukrainian Institute of Book Support for Minculture ensured Ukraine's participation in the 70th Frankfurt International Book Fair. This is our presentation and the promotion of the country in the world through culture. There was a meeting of the expert selection committee of the National Cultural Project curator to present Ukraine at the 58th Venice Biennial of Modern Art. The curator is assigned an open group with an art project." "Dreams" in the Gardens of Jardin." We've intensified our work and cooperation with Google to digitize our printed heritage. At its meeting on 24 October, the government approved the procedure for acquiring the "Doctor of Art" and teaching in assistant internships. On 8 November, the Second Annual International Forum "Creative Ukraine", organized by the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, was held in Kiev with the participation of European partners. In the framework of the Second International Forum "Creative Ukraine", we held a separate meeting with the speaker of the special session of the Bookkeeping Forum, "From a manuscript to a bestseller: how to publish books that will be sold well." The director of the London Book Fair, Jax Thomas, reached an agreement on Ukraine's participation in the London Book Fair in the 19th year. In Kiev, "Scene 6" Long-Centre staged a theatre exhibition based on Oleg Sence's "Nomery" play, created in support of the Ukrainian Cultural Foundation. On November 27-28, the 7th session of the Mixed Ukrainian-German Commission on Return and Restoration of Lost and Illegally Moved Cultural Values was held in Kiev. An important event of this meeting was the German handover to Ukraine by Sergio Vasilkovsky "Etud with the House", lost by the Kharkiv Art Museum during World War II. We end this year with a historical event. And I'm so glad I had the honor of ringing the bells.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u7	30 seconds. One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u8	Under the solemn bells of the Council of Sofia to set fire to a star named the new chairman of the Ukrainian local church. This is a significant, truly historic event. Dear friends, look under the trees in your homes, there's a lot of cultural gifts, they're like invisible, but all that surrounds us: and these creatively decorated trees, and our cozy dwellings, and our families, our everyday social relations, our actions are all culture. Let us be worthy of the will of the forefathers, and let us be optimistic about the future of our offspring. One of my friends keeps repeating that culture has such potential, such inexhaustible energy, such self-recovery that it will protect us and lead us into the future. With the festivals of you, honourable Ukrainian parliamentarians! With the festivals of everyone who sows the seeds of culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to questions to the government from the MP factions. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the recording. Please hold the recording. From Peter Prashenko's Block, I invite you to the words of the national deputy Shinkovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to draw your attention to my constituents, the inhabitants of Hmielničina, to their dissatisfaction with the subsidy system. We all understand very well that energy is the responsibility of everyone to pay 100 percent for them as it should be, and for those categories your government did the right thing, and starting with the government of Yatsenuk Arsenija, it was right to do the subsidy that rich people don't pay for heating and other energy supplies, and a person who doesn't have the option. But the system itself is a big request to look at it carefully. Well, for example, when you get 0.5 bets, you don't get a grant, and if you get a bet, you get one. Well, tell me, please, this person needs more than the one who gets less. One. The unemployed are also a very sensitive issue. Well, not everyone can get a job in the labor market, the center of employment means not all of them, it doesn't work, half a year didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u11	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u12	Yeah. So the big request is just to do a nice monitoring, right, and this is totally not a single case, to do the right monitoring and to adjust the accounting system. I think people will be grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Dear Mr. Andrey! The subsidy system is designed to protect every Ukrainian family with low incomes. And I'm interested in making sure that as many as possible who fall under this category receive personal protection in the form of their subsidies, which the government is beginning to cash in as of 1 January. I realize that there may be different cases in place that are not regulated by legislation as a whole or by government decisions. To that end, there are special commissions at the local level that can identify and enter into the living conditions of a family in order to support them. And I'm always saying, and I'm always saying that if a person asks you for a grant for social protection, but there's no help that's foreseen, but there's a reality that there's no high income, always take the side of the person who needs support. Therefore, we must do so and see where the deviations are and try to correct them. Thank you for taking care of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Reva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u15	Dear Andriy Vasilovich, I'd like to tell you about the position on subsidies, the cases you're talking about. If a person receives half a bet, he is entitled to receive subsidies. She is not denied subsidies. But when she's got half a bet, she's given credit, and she's drawn to the minimum wage. Because very often some of our intelligent citizens suggest that you lower my official salary by giving me a grant. In order for such moments to be less, there is such a situation in the housing grant program. With regard to the unemployed. The Law on Grants clearly states the difference between urban and rural residents. Considering that there is a great problem of unemployment in the village, even if a person does not work, he may be assigned a subsidy through the commission's decision, as the Prime Minister of Ukraine said. As for the urban population, please, I am willing to help those who do not work personally if they are willing to work. There is no problem of unemployment in major cities today. So all who do not work must ask them one simple question: Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u16	So, from the "Will of the People" group, Shahov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u17	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Volodymyr Borisovich, you know what the hardships of Lugansk and Donetsk are today, that's where the war is going. Please tell me why two and a half billion dollars per road is divided into Winnitz and Lugansk and Donetsk have a total of just one billion 200 million dollars. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. I don't think those are exactly the numbers you called, they're the ones that match the reality. You have merged a separate project called GO Highway. It's actually the western border, the Lviv region, our western border, and we're going south, to the Ukrainian ports of Mikolai and Herson. And that's why part of this area is going through the Vinnitsk district. But there is, and you can see, the Lviv region, Ternopilska, Hmelnicka, Vinnicka, Cerkask, Odessa and Mikolaiivska and so on. So it's gradually building up, so some part of the money is going to go into the area. As for the distribution of money by area according to the number of roads, they are distributed equally according to the number of roads, miles of roads, and so forth. The Donetsk region, unfortunately, is occupied, so of course the budget would be much larger. But this project, which we only have on separate projects next year, for example, there's Mikolayev, more specifically, Zaporozhye-Mariopolis road. These are individual costs, which can also be added to the Donetsk region, because there is a part, most of the territory will be built in the Donetsk region. And so on and so forth. So we have a lot of roads that we build with separate projects. If you add them, the numbers will be much higher than you said in the Donetsk region, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u19	Thank you. From Rebirth Group Shipko Andry Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, on St. Nicholas' Day, I spoke to veterans and pensioners who worked their entire lives in law enforcement. They said that when they received a pension certificate, they were given an income benefit for housing and residential services under the Police Act. When the Ukrainian National Police Act was passed, the benefits disappeared from the law. And this is a direct narrowing of citizens' rights, which is forbidden by the Constitution. As early as July of this year, 46 of my fellow national deputies and I applied for this application to the Constitutional Court. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will support retired veterans because the truth and the law are on their side. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you immediately to assign the relevant officials, without waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision, to take immediate action to recover the cancelled benefits to the IMF pensioners. And this question concerns 230,000 pensioners who worked in internal affairs, these people who deserved it by law and conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u22	Thank you for your attention. They have earned these rights by law and by conscience. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. On the basis of your request, the Prime Minister's mission will be handled properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u24	Thank you. From the Radical Party Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u25	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Volodymyr Borisovich, last time we found out that the 40 million people's money paid to Kobolev and the "companies" were paid by the decision of these criminals, the enemies of the Ukrainian people, the foreigners who sit on the NAC Naftogazu Supervisory Board. Question: what did the government do to put the people of the Ukrainian patriots in that position? First question. The second question. Two years ago, according to the decisions of that NCREKP, "sheep" is now not much, but the point has not changed, the addition of a standard to the power lines of a three-phase 15 kilowatt was worth 13,000 dollars, and this year it costs -- attention! - 36,000 dollars. So joining any industrial stand, a tiny one, is already worth more than the machine itself. The question is, What is he doing? (Give 30 seconds.) Question: "What does the government do?"
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u26	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u27	What legislative initiatives is it or is it intended to take to translate the sub-ordering of the tariff, association, monopoly under the jurisdiction of the government that elects the deputies who are representatives of the people of Ukraine, not of the NCRECR under the Presidential table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u28	Thank you so much for your question. The issue of networking is a very important issue in terms of economic and business development. We know that in many regions there are disproportionate technical conditions for mergers that are not always objective but are often too high for businesses. What's more, there's a lot of pay for joining the network. The NCREKP Commission is indeed not subordinate to the government, but the change of the entire commission, the leadership, has allowed an objective dialogue on this subject between the government and the National Commission. And to the honor of the National Commission, we have to hand over its leader, due to the fact that they have now prepared a completely new decision on joining, which foresees a substantial reduction in payments. Payback, substantial pay cut. And that's why we're waiting for a final decision when we can evaluate it, because the NCREKP is really an independent body. And if it's a decision of common sense, we'll always support it if we don't, we'll think about how to change legislation. Although there are good legislative initiatives to ensure that energy networks are free of charge. And I think it would be perfectly normal, because the pay for the unit of energy it predicts, including the income that companies get that are distributed and distributed. Therefore, there is also a need for order in this matter. If Parliament could make that decision, I think it would be positive. Now in terms of overpayments. I told you, I'm not going to support a cloudy salary to the heads of state companies. This means that when you look at the contracts, and it's going to be at NAC Naftogazu, it's going to be in March, in March. I'm going to be very interested, and this has to be a government-specific discussion about pay terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u30	As far as paying for the work of the heads of the national companies is concerned. And we're going to be tough enough here from the point of view of the government, because payments are now being made on active contracts. As for supervisory advice, you know that the board of directors started to change at the competition, and there's actually different experiences: both positive and less positive. But you don't have to stay in corporate, you have to move on. As far as the powers of oversight are concerned, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u32	There is a new law that stipulates what powers he is in Parliament. So, in principle, I think we have a discussion ahead of us. As for overpayments, after that, as such a decision was taken by a supervisory board that did not consult the government, the government immediately made the appropriate decisions to limit all payments, and from July, I think, the months they operate, these restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u33	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u34	"The opposition platform is for life." Dear Vladimir Borisovich, since you've licensed the Minister of Health, I'm asking you questions because her place is empty, and I haven't seen her. I'd like you to tell me what to tell people. Today, the ambulance doesn't leave, they say, "The roads are hot? - I won't. – Lie down, make up your own mind. Do you know that? They're waiting for the crash. I would like you to know that the Constitution obliges you to fight for the health and life of people. What are you doing at this time? Schools are closed and people cannot get help. That's the first question. And the second. Please tell the 643th Order, the 16th Year, September, where the Justice Ministry was lobbyed, and the Cabinet of Ministers made a decision and pulled 150 million dollars out of the Iron Road in favor of Tascombank and 18 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u35	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u36	30 seconds. And 18 million were illegally obtained by the performers. You said we'd figure it out. So tell me, please, how did you deal with the 18 million you stole from the budget on the basis of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers? Where is the question of forced distress, remember?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u37	I have a question, Reverend Vasil Ivanovich. And please tell me what population you're talking about right now. Did you just tell me about the accident? I just want to get this straight. Give me your word, German.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u38	30 seconds, let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u39	The question of the emergency call is, write it down: The Blackbay district, where the Irkliyev Hospital was shut down or intended to be closed, is Kiev. But the question is, what's the answer? I'll even tell you what they'll say: try to wipe it with a succulent solution. This is where we came, Vladimir Borisovich, to answer to someone for the lives of these children. You know, if there's a temperature, you can't leave the apartment and the ambulance doesn't come.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u40	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich, for your question. I am not an expert doctor, I find it difficult to appreciate a person’s condition, but I know for certain that if there is a need for an ambulance and there is evidence of a hospitalization or a rapid response, I am quick to come and provide the necessary medical care. That's the first one. And second of all, what you said about the coercion. If there is a decision of the courts and there is executive direction, there is no other choice in the owners of the entities as to how to enforce the decisions of the courts. I don't remember the details of the case, but I'm actually going to do it. It's the Crucifixion, isn't it? I'll have the Ministry of Infrastructure present to take another look, process and inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u41	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Alona Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u42	Dear members of the government, after familiarizing ourselves with the text of the IMF Memorandum with Ukraine, we see that the government has made a commitment to reduce social standards for the allocation of subsidies and to bring the price of gas to the level of import parity. Please tell me why there is no similar government obligation in the text of this memorandum after the decline, even though the same percentage of energy consumption in housing, apartment and rural areas? What will happen next year in such a critical way that it is possible to reduce social standards or increase the price of gas without substantially reducing energy consumption in homes? And the second part. I sent a petition to Mr. Kubov and to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Order after the monetaryization of subsidies. Please have a strong reaction to the infringement of consumer rights in this regulation and to the violation of antitrust legislation. But I expect it in writing. And the question is, why is there no demand to reduce energy consumption in houses as similar?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u43	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u44	Like a parallel norm that could go hand in hand with any rises or decreases in social values? And without such demand to reduce energy consumption, it seems to be a very one-sided and unjustifiable decision by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u45	Thank you so much for your question. It's not about lowering standards, it's about bringing them to real values. And don't confuse, please. That's the first one. It's different. With regard to the import parity at the price of gas, this is a commitment already made by Ukraine in 2008. And in fact, we have no other way out of this job, and there's just no other way. Because it was easy to write in a memo and then exclude it from there -- it's impossible. And it's about our energy efficiency strategy. Since January 1, we've been running the Energy Efficiency Fund, which accumulates for the next year about, at least, 7 billion dollars for energy savings, including housing funds. We are working today to reduce consumption by improving the quality of service. But I also want to figure out that the country's housing fund is either privatized or owned by municipalities. Therefore, municipalities need to develop their own energy strategies to enable them to enter into those parameters of real social standards and to provide real social protection. Because if there's no modernization in the city, no boiler repairs, no network repairs, no replacements, no individual heat points installed, it's going to be very hard for people to pay for heat. Because that's where the price of heat is formed. If there are normal energy conservation measures in the city, the state is helping. Then these tariffs should be smaller than they could be. So this is a shared responsibility, and in decentralization today, all local self-government can determine part of the resource and channel energy conservation. And we have 7 billion money in the State Energy Efficiency Fund next year to collect and target these goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u46	Thank you. And Reva, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u47	Dear Alan Valerian, in order for people to save energy, they must have an incentive. If we're with you every year and we're constantly criticizing the subsidy system, we're talking about that the subsidies aren't interested in energy conservation, and that's what I'm saying is that it's stopping the process of thermomodernizing houses, so let's just remember the simple thing. In 2016, there was a surplus of 16 billion dollars, 17 to 8 billion dollars, 18th billion dollars. What does this indicate? That the standards of consumption are too high. Naftogazu data: Under Kirovogradgas, people without subsidies use 2-3 cubic metres of gas per square meter, subsidies 4-5. How are you going to stimulate people and get them to do thermo-modernization if we're paying for total over-consuming? And so the government's position is absolutely right: to create incentives for energy consumption, to bring in the norms, as he said.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u48	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u49	Introduce consumption standards to the actual existing ones. It's the right course, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Brichenko People's Front, right? Please. Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u51	Igor Brichenko, Mikolayevščina, "The People's Front". Please give the word to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Mr. Prime Minister, he's met with voters in my 204 constituency on several occasions, and they've come to me with this problem. The Fertash gas monopolies account for households that are not equipped with a counter, extra bills. We've been talking to you for the last plenary week, and I advise people not to pay, because I think it's a fraud by gas monopolies. It was not enough that in all areas of Ukraine, even when there were restrictions, there was a national university in Cherniv, when students could not study, a medical university that had been shut down, although the limits had been cut off. You promised then that a working group would be set up to work on an algorithm, how we could fight the monopolies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u53	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u54	the lies that belong to Firtas because I think it was a diversion across Ukraine. And I advise people not to pay these illegal payments. And people are worried that the debt will be eliminated. What do you suggest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. First of all, there's no debt. If a person consumes gas, he has to pay 8.55 for it and place a dot. No priors for any loss, and there can be no more. It's all nonsense, and it's not necessary to pay. What's more, nothing's going to happen, it doesn't have any effect on the subsidy. Every Ukrainian citizen will receive his grant and there is no objection. What I wanted to say is that, after the issue had been raised in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on Wednesday, at the next government meeting, the government formally called on the government to decide, and asked the National Commission to carry out checks on all of the errors in law enforcement. This is a monopolistic story, and with monopolies, we need to act very hard in order to keep them from going beyond common sense and law. And that's why I don't care who owns the gas. The only difference is that everyone who provides services has to respect them, whether it's gas or water or it's heat. That's where we stand. The only thing we have enough authority to do is talk about it and Oleg Kuprienko, as in the government for reaction. But what I'm stressing is that we're going to mobilize both the Antimonopoly Committee and the National Commission to verify such cases, to draw conclusions on them, and most importantly, they have the right to impose fines on monopolists. And I think this will be the best example of protecting the rights of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u56	Thank you. And the final question from the factions -- from Homeland, Kugel, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you know, I never thought that after four years of the Dignity Revolution I would ask you to protect us from political repression. Today, in the Cherkas region, there will be suspicions of committing various crimes in practically all the management of the Fatherland headquarters. This is the creation of such a district attorney, Mr. Ovcharenko, who will enter the history of Ukraine, who, well, is more likely to carry out political orders and very much wants to get a general, because two deputies have been killed -- there is no movement in the discovery, he's only in the "Fatherland" party. What I'm trying to say is that today we have to hand over suspicions to our heads of the district, party headquarters: Yuri Trenkin, Michael Muscheik, Roman Discant, Anatoly Bondarenko, and many others. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a government manager, all the power structures: Mr. Avakov, Mr. Lucenko, Mr. Gretzak. December 23rd election in OTG, you don't represent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u58	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u59	The heads of the administrations, they forbid meetings with MPs, they don't give room, they intimidate teachers, everyone who works in the public service. I ask you very seriously to remind everyone of their responsibility and to stand up for the Constitution, because I can't turn to the President, they're the ones who follow his instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. I don't have any information on these cases. I would like to point out once again that the government is not a law enforcement entity and we are not subject to any law enforcement body other than the National Police, which operates within the framework of the law, and is determined by the investigator of the wine itself or its absence. If this is about giving up suspicion, I understand that if they are given, it will be clearly stated, for which and for whom these suspicions are handed over. And we're still going to have to evaluate legally whether it's finger to finger to sky, or whether it's some real thing. I can't tell you and get involved in this process, I don't think anyone can, including the Prime Minister. As for the election race, I am deeply convinced that our task, both the President and the government and the Parliament, is to ensure democratic elections. We have demonstrated this more than once, and I believe that society demands respect for itself and respect for the right of people to make their own choices. So if there are any violations concerning electoral issues, please contact me, I will address the Central Electoral Commission, there will be appropriate instructions from the National Police in order to respond urgently to such events. I believe that our task with you is to ensure that all participants in the political process comply with the legislation on elections. I can tell you for myself: I'm going to do everything in my power to make elections democratic and without any negative things that have been in the past in our lives. This is in principle for me, hopefully most of this room are my contemporaries in this number. And I would ask, but when it comes to guidance, who gives it, if there are facts, you tell it. That's how we always are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u61	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u62	Then we blame each other just like that. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u63	So, colleagues, now speak from the national MPs. Please prepare for the recording. Who intends to take part in questions from MPs, please record. Lapin Igor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Too bad she doesn't have Mrs. Irina Fries. So my question will be with Mr. Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, I welcome the first of these newly created ministries to separate the benefits from the participants in the fighting and the participants in the direct fighting. So we're going to be able to isolate about 400,000 of these, and I'm stressing that about 400,000 of us have the status of a participant in combat, and we've seen Separat alive, except on television, because we probably haven't seen it in the marine binoculars. So this question is quite relevant. And ready as the MPs who fought to join in drafting this bill: to separate these benefits. So there's a request when working groups are created, let's just say they would invite us, as we had a direct share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Igor. In fact, the question of updating the legal and general framework of legislation relating to the work of veterans requires such collective work with Parliament. Since the Minister of the Department of Veterans is the former National Deputy of Ukraine, I think that this work will be organized jointly with the deputies to make complex changes. By the way, this is one of the priorities of the ministry itself, as the minister pointed out. So I don't see any problems in this, we'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I would like to draw your attention to the thefts and cuts of electrical cables in telecommunications operators that are taking place extensively throughout the country. This leads not only to the loss of operators but also to intermittent interruptions. And it is also very important that in areas bordering on military action, this is also a threat to national security in the country. The IMF does not take any action to remedy the situation. I ask you to pay attention to this question. The other one. Odessaoblanergo, Kyivshlahbud – these companies are now raising 10-15 times the tariffs for communications operators, thus forcing operators to just shut down their businesses. It's just unacceptable. The tariffs are rising because the Cabinet of Ministers is not implementing the Law on Access to Infrastructure. The year was not adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers under the Infrastructure Access Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u68	30 seconds. We did it, didn't we? Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. As far as criminal crimes are concerned, this is a foreseeable responsibility. How can you imagine me taking control of cable cuttings in Ukraine by criminals? Well, the IMF. I don't believe the NSA is a zero. I'm convinced that the National Police, if they speak, register crime and take action. Because you do, you know, the M.E.S. is zero. The IMF is tens, hundreds of thousands of people who work, including on the front. You can't talk like that. If there's a specific case, please tell me, there's a case like this, such a disgruntled police officer. But all the same ink is wrong. Now what I'm going to say. I'm checking it out. I'll make a statement to the minister, I'll talk to the head of the Police, we'll look at the analysis of these crimes, and they'll increase this job accordingly. As far as tariffs are concerned. Listen, tariffs are regulated by the subject. If "autodor" is any district there, and so on, that tariffs can be different, well, it's a completely marketable story. I'm going to look at the government's legal acts that need to be done as quickly as possible. If there's anything we need and we can take, as soon as possible, these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Rosenblatt Boris Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u71	Please give the floor to the deputy of Žolobeck.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I am once again addressing you with one question. The Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant is a former factory of 61 commies. Thanks to you, we are compatible with our efforts. The question is, it moved from a dead dot. So I'm asking you to assign Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, who has full control of the situation. This time. And the second. The cruiser "Ukraine", which stands in the center of the city of Mikolayeva, and at which point the Ministry of Defense did not conclude a contract for its service, and the employees are serving this cruiser at their own expense. I ask you to ask the government questions about the future fate of the Ukrainian cruiser. And this question will allow the management of the Ucroborprom to resolve the issue of the debt of wages in this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u73	Thank you. As you know, the government and I have personally intervened in the issue of wages, and once we have solved this problem. I'm going to assign Croatprom to take another look at the problem and help solve wage problems. As for the implementation of military property, this subject is sufficiently mixed, it needs serious processing, and the Ministry of Defence is doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Romanovsky gives the question to Ungurian. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u75	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, Mr. Prime Minister! Volodymyr Borisovich, I address you. Literally a week ago, an employee of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, some Mrs. Lewchenko, stated that she was referring to the Ukrainian Security Service that, in her view, the local councils were both Ternopilska and Frankivska and Volinska, and, by the way, the Winnitz City Council, which had appealed to Parliament and the Government for the protection of family values, are Kremlin agents and are at risk of Ukrainian security. You've been approached by the Council of Churches, and you've been approached by tens of tens of people's deputies. First. To liquidate this institution incomprehensible, which is created by some genders. The second is to finally form a central authority of executive power. You know, I'm consistently asking you to set up a central executive body on family issues, family politics. And the third. The public has developed excellent textbooks for this purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u77	The public has developed textbooks for schools on the basics of family life, since we have a disaster with birth, a disaster with families. Vladimir Borisovich, according to the State Department, at the end of the year we're going to have minus 250-270,000 Ukrainians. For whom do we build an economy if we don't have children and mortality prevails?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u78	Thank you. First thing I wanted to say. Now, I'm going to have to do a service check on what this reference to Kremlin agents is, it's very interesting to me, let's sort it out. As far as family values are concerned. I've told you over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, I've told you that I know that I have family values, and I think that for all of us, these are fundamental values. With regard to the central authority of executive power. I think the Minister of Social Policy is going to tell you about the final decisions, the last decisions adopted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the government, literally two weeks ago, has adopted a decree on the creation of the State Social Service of Ukraine, one of whose functions is to solve the issues mentioned, we are now in the process of developing a situation. This State Social Service will function as the central executive authority at the expense of the number of the Ministry of Social Policy, a number of functions will go to the Ministry of Social Policy for it in terms of implementation, and precisely with regard to the issues raised by the distinguished MP of the Hungarians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Opanasenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to draw your attention to the reform of intellectual property. In July we passed the Law on Organizing Collective Copyright. Unfortunately, all the deadlines are broken by law, and no one is accrediting the new KICs. Tomorrow we're going to have an O.K. accreditation contest to raise money for our authors. Contest failed. I would also like to say that the process of disengagement of the UAASP has not yet begun. WAASP has already lost its participation in CISAC. I would also like to say that yesterday, Mr. Cubans tried to withdraw a bill that could not be revoked under the Rules, because it is already before Parliament, re-reading, 7538. That's enough. Vladimir Borisovich, there's still Law 9088, which concerns "eternally green patents" and patent trolling. Similarly, it is not supported by the Ministry of Profiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u83	it's not supported by the profile ministry. Vladimir Borisovich, there is such a feeling, a stable sense, that the Department of Profiles is blocking intellectual property reform. I want to remind you that intellectual property reform depends on a lot of things. First of all, the competitiveness of Ukraine. Second, the cost of a lot of drugs, other things. Please investigate why intellectual property reforms are being blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u84	Thank you. You've mentioned the First Vice Prime Minister several times, and I think that now Stepan Ivanovich is absolutely going to comment on how we're going in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that exactly 2.5 years ago, our ministry and the government's decision adopted a clear reform programme, not only in the direction of intellectual property, but in general with applied science and innovation. I did not expect that there would be such a resistance to fighting that all 24 years went by and collected accordingly. And yesterday at the press conference, I raised this question. The state of affairs today, along with the committees of the Supreme Council, is clearly adopted by a number of legislative acts, laws and government decisions that clearly reveal certain corruption schemes that worked under the cover of individual patrons, which are also in certain positions today, and even in this room. Thirdly, what I want to say is that the issues that we raised in the government and in the permanent working group are the experts involved, the international representatives who really want to reform the base today through the adoption of the relevant laws. A number of laws that the government has enforced by decision of the government committee that have come to profile committees are supplemented by the same corruption schemes. And in view of the fact that the law that the government has set up is losing its scope of transparency, it is losing its understanding of the state budget, and it still wants to cover itself with corruption schemes, a decision has been made with the committee, and we have spoken to Mr. Spivakovsky that we will correct or make another law that will draw up a more public scheme. And the last. What you said, someone's covering for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u87	I would ask you to form a parliamentary request with a familial, and according to the current legislation, we will answer each individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Wojciekhov Svetlana Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u89	Pass it on. Hand over the hops, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u90	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to address you and remind you of a question of Polish credit that I have already raised twice for hours in questions to the government. It will soon be three years, both the Agreement between Ukraine and Poland on the granting of Polish credit never entered into force. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, on December 3, a protocol was signed between Ukraine and Poland to extend the terms of the General Agreement. In this context, I would ask you to take personal control of the parties involved in the implementation of the agreement, namely: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the DFS, in order to give impetus and this has entered into force. Unless they're saved during January. We're good. We're good.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u91	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u92	I thought this contract was going to last again for a long time. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to take personal control and give appropriate instructions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. In fact, this project is one of the priority projects because it corresponds to our road development strategy and infrastructure on. building infrastructure across borders. But I can tell you, on our part, we're totally systemically working with no delays. And the delays, they happen because they're bilateral documents between the two states. December 3, really, this protocol is signed for continuation, and we will continue to do everything we can to make it work. We've already implemented dozens of these projects, well, there's this interstate bureaucracy that's holding us back in time. Hopefully it was a sequel that would give a new impetus because we would complete the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Alexander Kugel gives the floor to the question of Eutusek Sergei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u95	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Mr. Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure. Vladimir Volodymyrovic, please tell me exactly how we worked together in the Committee on Transport meetings on the State Road Fund Act, which provides for 60 percent of expenses on public roads, 35 on utility roads, or local roads. I've been in the Mikolai region recently -- I'm just terrified. You can't actually call roads in this area because they're directions. Please tell me, why were you or the government taken away 100 million, more than 100 million dollars now from this area? That's the first question. If technical documentation, tenders, and expertise were not available, tell us immediately that this is not an easy guide. People shouldn't suffer because of leaders who don't know what to do. Because the State Road Fund has been operating not for a year, but for several years. And one more question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u96	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u97	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, does this mean that if appropriate technical documentation, expertise and tenders are made in this area, that these 100 million will come back from the areas you've been heading back to, taking from the Mikolai region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honorable People's Deputy, for your question. As for the road situation in the Mikolai region. Yes, unfortunately, the area is not among the best. However, most of the N11 Dnipro-Micolay route has been repaired this year. By road fund. I would like to remind you that he has only worked since January 1, 2018, because the Supreme Council voted this law in 2016, and we are very grateful for this, and for the votes, in particular, of your faction. In the context of the Mikolai region. I am convinced that next year we will be able to produce a better result for the country. On the N14 road, a major repair is planned, which connects Mikolayev-Kropivnicki. One line in the road fund is a billion dollars in funding. It's actually Kropivnicka and Mikolaiowska region. As for the local funds. This is what we're stressing all the time is that it's the responsibility of the area and the local authorities. And it's very important that we don't have to go from year to year, but, as the Ukrainian budget provides for during the war, we use 100 percent. And we will also be grateful for your active positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u99	So, colleagues, in fact, we're getting another question, and that's going to be the final question. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was adding 30 seconds to everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we've been dating for over an hour. The time for factions is set for one simple reason. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm talking about that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Paul! If you're ready to listen, I'll explain now. There's an hour of questions to the government. Every week we have more than an hour. 25 minutes-- it's a faction question, and if each faction takes the word, otherwise we can't find the time. Then, colleagues, let's talk. Now the final question is Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u100	I have a question for Mr. Eugene Nietchuk, Minister of Culture. Mr. Eugene, the Supreme Council passed Law 1553 on the Protection of UNESCO’s Cultural Heritage. Under this law, the Ministry of Culture should develop a position on the Supervisory Board and the Cabinet should approve it. It's been a while, and there's no position yet. When approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at what stage is the development of the situation? Because every week, almost coauthors of the law ask me that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u101	Thank you very much. In short, we can meet on Wednesday, make this a separate meeting. I'm going to call all the touchy ones that are in the process, and we're going to agree with you. Wednesday, 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u102	Thank you, colleagues. So the time of "hours of questions to the government" is over. Two more minutes, Prime Minister Groisman, please. Three minutes, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u103	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! This is the last plenary week of this year. And I would like first of all to thank you for supporting the government, for supporting our joint legislative initiatives. I understand that the 18th year was difficult enough in terms of the legal process. But what we're entering in the new 19th year with the budget adopted in time, with the government's approved programme of action for 2019, is that we can look absolutely confidently at the new year and continue with the necessary changes that we've made to the core document. Our priorities remain constant: we will do everything we can to develop a national economy and ensure economic growth, financial stability. We will do everything we can to improve government in the country. It is very important for us to continue to make changes that will make systems and medicine better and education better. We will continue to invest resources in infrastructure, we will strengthen our security and defense, we will do those real things to make the country stronger. Deeply convinced that we can only do this together. Whatever challenges we face, our position should always be Ukrainian, national: making decisions, making matters qualitatively, honestly, in order for both Ukraine and Ukraine to be stronger. So, colleagues, this time let me thank you, wish you success and wish everyone a Ukrainian and you a happy New Year. And with Christ’s coming Christmas! Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you to the members of the government for the "hour of questions to the government" and for working together in this difficult but difficult but very effective year. Thank you, colleagues, for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u105	Give it to me yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u106	"The year of questions before the government" is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u107	Ten seconds. Mr. Head, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u108	Question hour to the government is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u109	Well, I want to thank you personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u110	I can hear your thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u111	Let us thank the Head of the Supreme Council for putting up with all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues. Now I want to make a message. I'm reporting a statement by Seminach Roman, who, during the vote on the basis and in the whole of the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter X of the Code of Land Transitions, he reports that his card did not work and he wants to report publicly that his position was "against". He voted against it, but the card didn't work. And I asked him to report it publicly. Mr. Roman, report. And, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare to read the questions. We are now moving on to the next part of our work, reading requests from Ukrainian national deputies. I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions came from our colleagues: Viktor Razwadowski, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the replacement of doors and windows in the central corps of the Beresov Public Education School I-III, graduated from the Zitomir region, the Zitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the provision of material assistance to John Tetjana Vasilovni, a village in the Romanov district of Zitomir, for rehabilitation in connection with the impact of the resistance. Olesia Long to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the appropriate order of disconnection from the central heating networks of the Ukrainian Law. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on support for natural and technical education as a defining segment for the scientific and technological development and defence of the country. Alona Babak to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State for the transfer of passports to the construction site and a copy of the technical documentation to the building at 52 Szczerbakowski Street in Kiev. Alona Babak to the Nicopolsk City Head on the emergency condition of residential buildings at the addresses of Prvotravnevo Street, 24 and Klasnic Street, 24 in the city of Nicopol. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the full provision of insulin to patients with diabetes in Kharkiv. Victor Halasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the real elimination of smuggling and the protection of the interests of domestic producers. Michael Bondar, temporarily acting as director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration, head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv region, scheduled for repairs in 2019, within the Busko, Radehivska Kamyanka-Buzky, Brodiv region of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine's rule of law in the creation of the DP "National Coal Company". Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of local community registers during the distribution of subsidies. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for contributing to the recovery of funds from the excise assembly to the budget of the village of Pomnik in the Cherkas region. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of further reducing the level of social protection for persons affected by the accident at CHAES. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems that have arisen in the Loz city district community of Kharkiv region in connection with the adoption of an updated procedure for the allocation of housing subsidies. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine in compliance with labour law. Vadim Krivohatka to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the status of a member of the family of a deceased military officer. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prospects for the deepening of areas in the Volin region in the process of decentralization reform in Ukraine. Irina Konstankević to the head of the Volin District State Administration for repairs carried out in 2018 on roads of general use of local importance in Kamin Kashirsky, Kivertsevsky, Ljubeshivsky and Manevicki areas. Anton Kisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a technical and economic justification for the restoration of railway connections in Berezine, Ukraine - Basarabiaska (Moldova). Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2019 of the funds needed for the construction of Suvorovsk and Bolgrad group water lines to provide drinking water to the inhabitants of the southern districts of the Odessa region. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the Department of Nuclear Physics to the Faculty of Physical Sciences of the Uzhgorod National University. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the repair of the area of the road. Victor Vuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure that the central authorities of the executive branch, subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Constitution and the Ukrainian legislation on citizenship issues. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Provincial Regional Authority, Novograd-Wollin City Head, for immediate comprehensive treatment and medical care at the expense of the budget of the newborn child; and for material assistance. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Provincial District Administration for the provision of disabled children with wheelchairs; medical treatment and medical care at the expense of budgetary resources; and material assistance. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice for knowingly false reports of the commission of a crime. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on foreign travel to perform the duties of the Minister of Health and Deputys during the 18th year. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the social protection of single mothers and women who do not receive alimony on children. Yurya Miroshnicka to the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the appeal of the citizen of Prosynyuk concerning the illegal logging of green plants in the Shrine district of Kyiv. Alexia Lensky, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on taking immediate steps to stop the illegal logging of the trees in the territory of the Glyphosnian Majority District of the Ovrutsky District of the Ovromir Region by the officials of the Ovrutsky United Territorial Society and to draw the guilty persons to the responsibility established by Ukrainian legislation. Sergey Rybalka to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the inaction of the Obolon Police Department of the National Police in Kiev. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for possible violations of current legislation during the reorganization of the Trostyanec Central District and the Trostian Regional Children's Library of the Suma Region. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security Council of Ukraine on the need to allocate additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of military status and with the aim of developing the transport infrastructure of the border region of Suma. Alexia Bilago and Igor Shurma to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of purchasing the Ministry of Health services from an international monitoring survey of the quality of higher health education in 2018 with a total cost of $575 000, as well as the task of the State of Loss for millions of dollars by the Centre for Testing at the MoZ Ukraine. Olga the Mantis to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of information. Olga Bogolitz to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use by Ukraine of practical measures to counter the aggression of the Russian Federation at sea within the framework of the International Maritime Organization. Romana Macola to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor, on the use of effective pretrial investigation into the death of an ATO member of the armed forces, Mr. Koval Maksim Aleksandrovitch. Romana Macola, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, heads of the Hmelny District State Administration for the provision of emergency medical care for the treatment of oncological children and for the consideration of referrals to treatment abroad. John Sporish to the Director of the National Institute of Surgery and Transplantology of Shalimov, a temporary duty of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to conduct a kidney transplant operation and post-operative rehabilitation treatment at the expense of a citizen of the Guardian of Alexandre. John Sporish to the Director of the National Institute of Surgery and Transplantology of Shalimov, a temporary duty of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to carry out a liver transplant and post-operative rehabilitation treatment at the expense of a citizen of Panchishé Natalia. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to increase funding in the direction "Sanitary and Smoking Health of Persons with Disabilities". Igor Goose to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to impose a moratorium on the collection of fines and pennies (plums) for not paying a single social contribution. Alexander Suprunenka’s temporary responsibilities as head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Kyiv City’s head, to bring the business activity in the Darnicki district of Kiev into line with the requirements of environmental legislation. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the R-73/N-08/Nicopol R-73/N. Groups of National Deputies (Romanov, Miroshnichenko and others; only 7 deputies) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the speedy registration of an order from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the reputational risks for Ukraine. Jacob Besbah to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the Regional branch of the South West Railway for the creation of appropriate conditions for the use of rail transport. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the National Agency of Ukraine for State Service, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the deliberate and long-term failure to execute a judicial decision by the authorities of the State Executive Service. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent repayment of the debt for coal production and the payment of the debt on salary to the employees of the First World War workers. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to address the issue of providing first-major coal workers with lamps with main and mining means of individual protection. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to determine the appointment of health care facilities as of 1 January 2019 as a medical director, which has been introduced into the Professional Professional Manual. Issue 78 "Health Protection" by the MOH of Ukraine since October 31, 18th, 1977. Irina Sisoyenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the destruction of the state institution "Specialized Health Department No.14 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine". Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of measures marking the 30th anniversary of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the veneration of Ukrainians killed in Afghanistan. Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, to provide information on changes to the Ministry of Health’s order of 29 November 2004 No. 579. Irina Souslowa to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on the number of women militias who have been certified on vacation and those who have been transferred to civilian posts or who have been released in connection with the liquidation of the internal affairs of Ukraine. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of the export credit agency's PRET. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of the implementation of a comprehensive reform of government. Sergei Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to secure the payment of pensions. Groups of National Deputies (Gerega, Šinkovica, Macoli) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the results of an investigation into the illegal dumping of harmful substances on the land of the village of Rossoš Hmelnicki district. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to make changes to the order in which housing subsidies are allocated to unprotected categories of citizens. Igor Lapin to the Kivertsze District State Administration, Kivertske District Council of Volin Region for the execution of the contract agreement on the reconstruction and capital repair of premises under general practice of family medicine, 17 objects (2 phases)." Victor Krivenk to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to investigate anticompetitive concerted action. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the development of the mechanism for the payment of pensions. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at verifying compliance with T.O.S. License Conditions for the Management of Hazardous Wastes. Igor Popova to the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for the provision of statistical information. Artura Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper work of the Commission of the Ministry of Health in directing citizens to medical treatment abroad. Artur Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Attorney - General of Ukraine for bringing to justice officials of the Ministry of Health responsible for the death of persons. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the health care system. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on how to address the issue of how to help the CHAES eliminaters to obtain a new sample. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of current legislation and housing rights of owners of the apartment building by refusing the Poltava College of Food Technology in writing and transferring it to the balance sheet of the Malva-56 OSBB. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the falsification of a court decision Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of an additional subsidy to teaching staff from the Tetian United Territorial Society of the Kyiv Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of construction funds and the capital repair of social infrastructure facilities in the Kyiv Region. Victor Vuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the inadequacy of Ukraine's legislation with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set up an Inter-Consolidated Commission to generalize the state's legal position on the issue of secession and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression and the preparation of Ukraine's consolidated claim to the Russian Federation regarding the implementation of its international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, Ukraine's Infrastructure Minister, to stop the experiment on the reform of the Pat "Krošta". Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Food Security and Consumer Protection, the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for Combating Porcine Contraband. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, for compensation to citizens for the loss of money savings. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of an allowance for teaching staff of the Ministry of Education. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the worthy pay of the employees of the post office. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Sanctum near the town of Kremenac Ternopil district. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krošta" for the provision of payment and delivery services for Pat "Krošta" pensions in rural areas. Mikli Kucher, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the execution of the decision to recalculate and pay the pension to Zadejna Valentina. Andrija Lopushanski and Michael Doubbenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities on the right to add additional funds to consumers for the natural gas consumed in previous years. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, on the impact of further financial and credit cooperation between the People's Republic of China and Ukraine on the implementation of the PAT loan agreement "National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine". Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the construction of a public education school in the village of Bikovina in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration foresight in the budget of Kiev for the work of lighting the instigation area on the street of General Karbishev, 18-22 in the Dniprovsk district of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Hmeljna Region, the head of the Hmeljna District Administration for the solution to the problem of the legalization of a cemetery in a village of the townlike Theofipol Hmelnicki district. Andrija Shinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Hmelnicki district for the payment of the debt for the milk paid by the agricultural production cooperative "First National Industrial Cooperative" in front of the peasants of the Hmielni district. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of setting up natural gas consumers - individuals (populations) of individual gas accounting devices. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the non-derogation of the functioning of the State Agency for the Promotion of Culture of Ukraine. Sergia Leshchenka to head the Kyiv City State Administration on a situation with a preschool facility at Dragomanova Street, 1-B in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Sergija Mishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the order and conditions of granting housing subsidies to vulnerable categories of citizens. Mikoli Skorika and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prosecutor of the Odessa Region, head of the Odessa District State Administration on purchases of subsidies from Ukraine’s state budget for non-quality buildings to create family - type children’s homes. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Dobrodomova and others; only 7 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration on incorrect calculation and representation of the number of votes in petition No. 22/047294 on the non-derogation of freedom of speech in Ukraine and the application of sanctions to "112 Ukraine" and NewsOne. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the critical observations of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine on the results of an audit of the use of state budget subsidies to provide housing for orphans, persons of their number. Yurya Bereza to assume the responsibilities of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Dnipropetrovska Road Service in Dnipropetrovsk, Head of the Dnipropetrovska District State Administration for the multi-year failure to repair the road cover T 0419 on the road side of the Five-Hatka-Ordo-Wasilovka road and T 0434 on the road side of the Ordo-Wasilovka - Curve Rig of the Dnipropetrov region, which is in a catastrophic state. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the non-admission of military salaries, which are lower than the minimum wage. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the illegal registration of property rights for immovable property by public shareholders of the commercial bank PrivatBank. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the elimination of problematic issues regarding the implementation of national decisions in human rights cases of the European Court of Justice, the use of measures to compensate for damages and to prevent violations of the rights of applicants. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the transfer of the dormitory at the address: Kharkiv city, Selyanska street, bud. 25 to the municipal property of the city of Kharkiv for its further privatization by residents. Roman Semenha, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on a reporting period for which large enterprises that are not issuers of securities and medium-sized enterprises are obliged to publish annual financial reporting together with an audit opinion. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the legal act. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation of capital expenditures to the National Agro-ecological University in 2019. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the immediate use of comprehensive measures to end communist propaganda. Oleg Osukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Vijacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the proper organization of the work of state registrants. Sergey Rybalka to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice on the groundless annulment of Order No. 2 of the Novomoskov Regional Election Commission of the Dnipropetrov Region on the establishment of the Cherkas Village Electoral Commission of the Novomoskov Region by the judge of the Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court of Gorbalovsky W. W. People’s Deputies ( Timesa, Jurinec and others; only 6 deputies) to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine to consider the possibility of installing broadcasters and radio signals to ensure the language of Ukrainian television channels in the north of the Republic of Moldova, where Ukrainians live compactly, in order to ensure their cultural and information needs in their own language and to counter Russian propaganda. Jury of Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, National Health Service of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the continuation of the deadline for applications by municipal health facilities for the signing of contracts for health care of the population under the Health Guarantee Programme and for receiving funding from January 1, 2019. Jury Derevyanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct of pretrial investigations in separate criminal proceedings. Natalia Novak and Victor Chumak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures. Natalia Novak and Viktor Chumak to the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for information on acceptance into operation of the construction project "Reconstruction of Transport in the Postal Square in the Podilj district of Kiev". Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, Fastov City Head for Assistance to the Families of the city of Fastov Kyiv Region, who suffered from the destruction of three floors in a residential building. Ivan Melniczuk to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Vinnicaoblanergo, head of the Inspectorate of the Dergenergoneview in the Vinnitsky region, for failure to implement the contractual obligations in the area of compensation for the damage caused by the electrical voltage crisis. Tetjana Ostrikova to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the illegal activities of the DFS by substantially overestimating the cost of the means of transport claimed prior to customs clearance into the "import" regime. Tetjana Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the baseless submission of debt claims by the Zynky branch of the United State Tax Inspectorate. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for carrying out a review of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for not taking measures to provide children with diabetes with the necessary insulin. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the Prosecutor of the Kyiv District, who did not attend a court hearing to support the state's prosecution in a criminal case. Yuri Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the immediate removal of the emergency situation in apartment buildings Nos. 9 and No. 5 on the street of Yuri Illenka in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev to prevent their destruction and to prevent the consequences. Jury Levchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the establishment of order in an abandoned historical building, located at the city of Kiev, Sichov Strilts Street, 91 and for the return of an illegally privatized non-residential property in the central part of the capital to the property of the territorial community of Kiev. Ruslana Demczak to the finance minister of Ukraine for the possibility of placing local budgets in all banking institutions in connection with the stabilisation of the banking sector. Ruslana Demczak to the acting head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the reasons for the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. Igora Lucenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the exercise of parliamentary control over the reconstruction of the house of the actor as a cultural and educational institution of the National Theatre Actors of Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of copies of certain decrees of the Government of the National Bank of Ukraine adopted for the purpose of overseeing the operation of the PAT "Bank of Finance and Credit". Sergio Rudika to the head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Rudik to the head. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergija Rudika is head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the inclusion in the Plan for the Implementation of Integrated State Oversight (Control) for 2019 of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine for the Verification of the Activities of the Solid Waste Field (Dniprovsky district, town of Podgorne, Smolensk Street, 72), as well as for the fulfilment of the requirements of Ukraine's effective environmental legislation by Inekotech Ukraine. Sergio Rudika to the head of the Cerka District State Administration for the renovation of roads for the general use of local value within the areas of Kamyansk, Smiljanski, and Cherka district of Cherkas, as well as the streets and roads of municipal property in the cities of Kamyanka and Smilla. Vadim Krivohatka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the laws by the Head of State Administration in Zaporozhye region Chaika D.V. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the regulations and regulations required by the laws of Ukraine on the specialities of State policy on the provision of State sovereignty in temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, on the national security of Ukraine, and on the legal status of persons who have disappeared. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the GDR. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration for the financing of public organizations Igor Alekseyeva to the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian Research and Training Centre for Standardization, Certification and Quality" on topical issues of standardization of judicial and expert activities. Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the order of sentencing the scientific and educational degree of the Doctor of Philosophy. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to pay the employees of the Public Shareholders Association Odeska Portal. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the contradiction between Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 207 and Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 104. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need for an increase in expenditure in 2019 in connection with the recovery of the benefits laid down in the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, Decision No12/R/2018 of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 18 December 2018. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the State Service on Food Safety and Consumer Protection. Jury Tymoshenko, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, to make proposals for the order, conditions and duration of the development and conduct of a single state-level qualification test for masters in the field of "22 Health Protection". Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State language policy in the field of education and the protection of children's rights. Eduard Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Odessa National Medical University, the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the need to ensure the realization of Falis Vasilina Vasilivna’s right to higher medical education in Ukraine. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration on the need for an objective review of the address of the Odessa Regional Federation of Karates. Taras Batenka and Alexander Dubinin to the first deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is in charge of ensuring a fair distribution of the right to speak to Ukrainian national deputies and to prevent interference with the Council of Foreigners. Robert Gorvat under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Chief of Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on illegal restrictions on the rights of owners of vehicles. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the proper provision of haberdashery and weight control on road transport in the delivery of cargo in Zakarpatsk region. We finished reading the questions that came from the National Deputies. We still have a number of national MPs who are dissatisfied with their requests. And before I listen to the national MPs, I just want to pay attention, we have this practice: National MPs walk in the hall and make a direct broadcast from the sitting room. I think that people who want to watch direct broadcasts from the hall, from the plenary room, can do it on the " Rada" channel. And since the MPs are demonstrating a semi-empty room, I don't think it honors the MPs themselves or the entire Parliament. Now, if you'll excuse me for a moment, I'd like to ask the floor of the National MP, Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u114	Thank you, ma'am. You know, an empty hall needs to be seen by the whole country in order not to choose in the next election those political powers that their representatives are unable to organize for work, and in order for us to choose honest authority in the next election. And as for my dissatisfaction, you know, dissatisfaction relates to a particular story when the Crucifixion refused to change the timetable of the trains so that Ukrainian citizens could travel Ukraine without these many problems. But this is not my main dissatisfaction. The dissatisfaction is that this year Parliament was unable to change the electoral system. And the next time we have the risk of equally choosing corrupters -- people who are motivated by their own wealth -- into the main legislative body. And even more dissatisfaction with me this week, because this week, a valid government, under the direction of the President's Administration, has given Ukraine's largest gas lineage - the Yussian lineage - to the "watching" of the Bank's, the Dusty Clan. It's the same Yusev genealogy that Janukovich used to consolidate for World Company No. 1 Shell to extract solar gas in Ukraine. And then, when the war started, Shell closed down his business in Ukraine, prices fell down, and they said, they're no longer interested in this area. They left Ukraine. And instead of declaring a new competition for a world investor, or giving it to a state-owned company called Crushing, so that the state of Ukraine will receive dividends in profit from the exploitation of Ukrainian nadrs, this authority has done everything to give its "watchers" a unique land plot. It was created in the Netherlands by a company with statutory capital of a thousand euros specifically under this equipment. The founders set up a small - known structure from Luxembourg, and it was also designed for this equipment with unknown end owners. And this structure this week, according to a government decision, has received this huge area for the exploitation of Ukrainian nadr. And they declared that perhaps later they would involve some other world investors from Slovakia. Well, that's funny. If we have this area going to investors in Slovakia through an unknown company, which at the same time, a company investor in Slovakia, says that no solar gas is going to be mined, but ordinary natural old deposits will be mined and the traditional method of pumping gas. So why don't we, uh, put this area up for a new competition and really get the world investor involved? Or we give the government's Crushing Company, so that they'll exploit the state in their own best interests, not the next looker. It's another piece of equipment at the end of the Presidium of Dustenk, just like two weeks ago he was trying to take down Centrenerego, another one of his "watchers", prepared to take everything away, and a government asset went into the hands of a clan that is now actually usurping power for its own enrichment. So, of course, discontent is not just the current situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u115	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u116	Thank you. The dissatisfaction is that this Parliament has failed to change the rules and break this corrupt conspiracy. And in the next election, all the political forces that will become participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u117	Thank you. There is no Hanni Hopko and Sergey Vlasenka in the National Deputies' Hall, and I'm returning their papers to the Secretariat. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Shumku. There are two phone calls, so it takes six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u118	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you know, it's very sad when people show up once a week and they come and take pictures of that empty hall. Well, the idea is you could show the same room right now, and whoever shot it on live is just not there. Because it's from the evil, you know, to throw arrows at the power they brought to power, the very power they brought to power, well, it seems a little cynical to me. And now, essentially. NABU detectives were employed, and according to their report in the first half of 2018, social investigations were conducted. It has been noted that 90 percent of the abuse in the social sector belongs to health care. The documented health corruption of more than 112 million dollars. It is legal that every violation is the result of specific individuals. And I had a specific question: Which of the persons whose work has led to the abuse of hundreds of millions are being punished today. Regrettably, the reply given by the Prime Minister of Ukraine indicates that the Ministry of Health is mandated to deal with the issues. You see, we're asking who's in violation of the Ministry, and the Ministry of Health is being referred to the application. Well, it could only be, you know, in Ukraine. This hybrid system, it's in everything, including consideration of these issues. There is no proper response by the Prime Minister to these facts in health corruption. Thus, the questions raised are simply redirected to the object of the infringement. In turn, in order to carry out the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the ILO reports: "The provision of the requested information does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health." This was a meaningful response from government officials. My address was also to the President's Administration. They also answered that the question was not within their purview. AS THE director of the survey for health - related abuses, NAKU reported that detailed information on crime stories is the secret of pretrial investigation. In a written report on the activities of NABU, statistics on the results of pretrial health investigations are presented in an isolated form. So, taking into account this situation, on the basis of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I demand that I provide information on the issues I have raised in the first half of the year's report on the matter, in fact and specifically in each case, when the judicial investigation is completed, and that the responsibility of the guilty persons be drawn to the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the appropriate response from the Prime Minister, and not formal replies to the request. In parallel, I would like to say that he continued with this subject, and I had a second question about the abuses that we have in the field of international purchases. This topic is already an illustration in the tongues. You know what a double world is? On the one hand, representatives of the Ministry of Health, public activists who initiated the purchase of drugs through specialized international organizations, constantly say: economy 80 percent, economy 60 percent. I would like to remind you that in four years, Ukraine, we have counted 16 billion dollars abroad. Given that there's an economy that's still 30 to 40 percent, there should be an extra 5 billion dollars left. I'm asking a rhetorical question. Well, go to any hospital, district, county, go to the clinic, go to the district clinic, see where the drugs we're being told about. And cynicism is that international procurement is expected to end in the first quarter of 2019. And here this Supreme Council, which has passed through the Midan of Divinity, shows that, if you will excuse me, it has also spilled the past of the Supreme Council. The End Positions of the Budget Act are amended to read: "Continue for one more year." In violation of the Constitutional Court's decision that prohibits end-of-life from amending other laws, this is done for another year. And we did the investigation, and who did it. And as you think, that's what people who don't have anything to do with medicine do, that's what immoral people do. Because -- I'm going to call my family, and let me be summoned to court, -- a national MP named Hopko, who works for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, refers to the first deputy head of the budget committee, and he's already making these changes from himself, knowing that her initiative will not be accepted. Keep your voice down, you scoundrel. What Hopko did doesn't surprise me. The first self-help number that the young team brought in on those values was expelled for violating those principles. Instead of being proud to say that I'm a new generation, I'm out of politics, because I broke it, and I'm moving on to another job, and I'm dealing with the abuses that led people to Midan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u119	Thank you. We finished our section of references. The next thing we're going to do is we're going to have a discussion at the Miscellaneous, and we're going to go back after the break. And now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a break for half an hour, up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we will continue our work. I'd like you to prepare for the recording for discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please hold the recording. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I remind you that the buttoning of the Miscellaneous doesn't work. I think there's plenty of time for everyone, but the next one's a national MP, Cooperenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u121	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear people of Ukraine, I salute you all with the coming festivals: with the Christmas of Christ, with the New Year! I wish your families good and good, peace and harmony. That there may be peace in dwellings, that there may be abundance in the family, that there may be no sickness, that there may be peace, that there may be security in tomorrow. The following year is very difficult. It's unforgivable that we're going to go back to the election, first to the presidential election, then to the parliamentary elections. And everyone will forget that it is necessary to build a country, to feed families. Everyone will just think about how to tell you that they're the best, that they want to come back to power, promise you again, and cheat you again. Do not believe the words, judge according to the works, not according to the words, but according to their works judge them. Look at all of us who are working or not working under the dome right now, especially those who are not working, and draw conclusions as to who has promised and who has done what. On behalf of and on behalf of our leader, Oleg Lášk, the entire Radical Party team, from every country MP to the national MP, I assure you that we have worked, worked and worked, not for our own pocket, but for you, honourable Ukrainians. All that we've done in this year, according to your attention, despite the small number in this Parliament, we're not even 10 percent, we're much smaller, but we've stood up for the Ukrainians' right to the Ukrainian forest, we've defended the Ukrainians' right to a decent salary, let's say a minimum, but not the one that the authorities have offered, but the one that we have accomplished, and each one of you feels it. They've protected the metallurgy, protected and continued to protect military, property and many, many, many more. Again, judge not according to word, but according to works. God give you wisdom, God give you reason, do not be mistaken in choosing the future of our children, who we placed under pillows yesterday, and may you be happy. Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u122	I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u123	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, welcome to the coming Christmas of Christ and New Year! I wish the following year would be a year of great change and realization of your dreams and wishes. I want everyone in every family to be healthy, happy, and at peace in Ukraine, so that everyone who defends Ukraine today will come home safe and sound; so that we can hear a child’s laughter in our homes so that our homes will be comfortable and warm. I wish we could get rid of the old system next year, and we have the opportunity to do so both in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Systems where the state sees itself as an instrument of coercion, a system where the oligarchy dominates the state and controls all the whole industry and Ukrainian power. In a system where taxes are nothing more than a certain provision for every Ukrainian who works on his own land. Instead, I want to create a new system -- a system of new economics, a new economic policy, where we'll all have new opportunities, and entrepreneurs, and people who work, good jobs, big wages, the best investment and tax climate in the country. I want you and I to have, in addition to new possibilities, a sense that the state is a service for us, where we are calmly, without queues, through our phone, a computer remotely, we can order any service and get this service. Either you order, or you get a business registration service, or you get any help, or you get any service from another authority, without wasting any time or nerves, without paying any bribes to anyone. I wish we had a sense of confidence, and that's the most important thing we have to get with you. This is when we have security on the streets, security everywhere, and peace in Ukraine. I wish you that next year would also be confident that we could go to the shops quietly, without fear that there's twice as much price as there is. That there's no galloping inflation, that there's no possibility that we're going to be punished with you, that we're going to be punished with impunity, that we're going to be beaten, or that we're going to be raided so that we can raid someone's business. I wish each and every one of us felt that if anyone did something illegal with us, he was immediately protected by the State, and that person who committed any crime, any wrongdoing, was punished. I wish that each of you would be able to unite and overthrow this system next year, an oligarchic, corrupt system, and that will only allow us to do it in the first elections, in the presidential elections, and in the other parliamentary elections. I believe Ukraine will win. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u124	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u125	Thank you. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters! The last days of 2018 are already passing, today the last plenary day. And you see, the sign of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is this empty Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, throughout the year, Ukrainian national deputies failed to pass the laws that awaited the Ukrainians, even the ruling coalition’s representatives succeeded in fulfilling their coalition agreement. With what they will go to the March 2019 elections and October 2019 – it is not clear. But I think the voters and themselves see it in their lives, in their wallets, in housing and utility tariffs. I think even today's authorities will be surprised by the results of March 2019. That is why Ukrainian citizens have a constitutional duty to come and vote. And to vote for their hope, so that this life and these poverty, which they feel on a daily basis, will not exist, and that their lives may be improved somewhere, especially the lives of their children and the future of their children. And now I want to talk about the Rules, about the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, there are always and there are some efforts and heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the governing coalition to adopt laws that they either have in politics or, as they showed yesterday, by interfering with religious issues, they want to stretch. But nevertheless, this is both the position and the regulatory committee, and this is the position of our political power: we must always keep the law. A bill under the Rules cannot be put immediately in the first and second readings, and generally. There is a procedure laid down in the Rules: First it is the basis, and if the national deputies of Ukraine do not have any comments or suggestions, then only it can be put in place in general. Yesterday, by adopting Law 5309, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, again, violated the rules and norms of the Constitution of Ukraine. There are already two decisions of the Constitutional Court, a precedent already established when laws were defined and declared unconstitutional in connection with a violation of the procedure. And I want to remind by the transcript that the same situation was with Bill 9090, you remember it, it's about the Central Election Commission, the author of which himself was the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where he, again, defiantly violated the Rules. We have no other option, provided for by law, except: firstly, to make a constitutional provision regarding the recognition of the bill and the Law adopted, 5,309 unconstitutional, as well as Law 9090. Moreover, considering that there may be signs in the actions of the Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u127	In view of the fact that the actions of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may contain signs of a violation of part one of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine – the abuse of a position of duty, we ask the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to submit these data to the GDR and conduct an investigative investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u128	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy of Krivohatka, and he has been given the word of the People's Deputies of the Qurena and the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u129	Congratulations, fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u130	Rules - 6 minutes. Two persons handed the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u131	Congratulations, distinguished Ukrainians with the coming New Year! But I'd like to take a less optimistic note of you and the Ukrainians on some of the disturbing facts that are now being done in the Zaporozhye region. I'd like you to make a stop, a picture. Please note, this is a kindergarten, 99 percent of the documents are built: The city’s village, Balabine, had spent 8 million dollars on it. Do you understand? We started building three years ago. I am very sorry that the money that could serve Ukraine to serve the Ukrainians is so freely looted. I'm already not saying that 150 (about 200) children who hoped that. Mothers who had the hope of being able to take their children to kindergarten and take care of themselves. Either get a job, or, well, get a little self-fulfillment, they don't have that opportunity today. And unfortunately, it's not one of the loudest facts about the embezzlement of state money in the Zaporozhye region. I could show these pictures here by morning. Water, the village of Lukasheva, which has spent 5 million and today (3 years) The pipes are unburied. They tore up the whole village. People don't have water, people carry ponds. Three years as a subcontractor for the construction of the waterworks, and to this day it's not built, but the money is listed. I can tell you about a school in a wider community where last year the heat was replaced and this year 5 million were re-allocated. to repair the heating system of the school and didn't do it. And people. The children could not go to school for almost a month. And the children's house had a temperature plus 9 degrees. This is a terrible situation. We will never win if the Ukrainians observe such a terrible painting, a painting of impunity for embezzlement of state money. I do. When they call me "8 million," I translate. I am often approached, and many of you are approached by Ukrainian citizens with a banal request to help with treatment, where their lives depend on less astronomical sorrows. And there's no money in the state for that. And to make a living, someone stole it from here. You do understand, don't you? So there's nothing here for 9 million. Last year I did. And what is the tragedy of the situation? Last year, I turned to the law enforcement agencies on this subject. And they broke a criminal case. Looks like they'd arrest someone, then let them go. And another three million this year. The system is simple, I was talking to this person who was building this nursery. What does he say? He built a defense building, he broke into it because he had to give it away, and he was given money, "On, build a defense building, and we're a kindergarten once." You know what the problem is? They steal everywhere, they steal from everything, they get 30 percent off. Tell me. I want to end with an optimistic note. I want to, I think, and the deputy district council of Zaporozky, and the governor will see it. He was ten minutes away from the board of directors, got in the car, left, and I've been paying attention to this. And the children of the 19th year will meet under a tree that will be in a new nursery already built. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar. He was also given the word of two colleagues, Danieline and Korchik. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u133	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamyanecina, and Radehovščina I want to thank my colleagues and Danielin Vladislav and Corchik Vitalia of the People's Front who gave me the word. I would also like to welcome the country with the coming festivals, with the New Year and the Christmas of Christ, to wish first of all victory to us, prosperity, harmony, all the best that the Mother of God, Jesus Christ, would protect you, your families. In order for prosperity to be in the country, many things will depend on you, too, your fellow countrymen. What kind of authority will you choose, so it will be for you. I want to go to the radio station right now. 23 numbers, this Sunday's OTG election is Lopatin OTG and Radehivska. I want to urge you not to be indifferent, to come to the polling station of young, older people, to make your choice, to make the right choice. In the future, both the O.T.G. and the MPs will actually defend your rights rather than lobby for some of their mercantile interests. I'm afraid I can't be, even though the next few weeks are committee work and election work, I'm sorry I won't be in the district. I plan on going over to the boys' house, handing them over, saying hello to them, bringing them some snacks, talking to the boys, having a Christmas party with them. And in view of the fact that I want my speech to continue to be viewed as a parliamentary address. I was approached by the head of the International Charity Foundation of the Kuzmin brothers. You remember Kuzmina, a man who was captured who was worthy of his conduct. Now they've set up a fund with my brother and they've been asking me that the International Cousmin Brothers Charity Foundation has been in existence since 2015. The Fund’s activities are aimed at treating, healing, and rehabilitating military personnel who have been injured, injured, and ill in the course of the war in eastern Ukraine. The fund opened in January 2017 a rehabilitation centre in Žitomir with a total area of 400 square meters, which provides free rehabilitation services to fighters who have suffered, protecting the sovereignty, integrity and unity of our state. At present, there is the largest number of professional rehabilitation equipment in the center, with leading specialists working on it. There are ATO fighters, their families, and children diagnosed with "child cerebral palsy" in the center. In September 2017, a similar centre in Cherkas was opened to assist us in more military activities, as well as active work on the opening of the rehabilitation centre in Kiev. Centers work and accept daily those in need of recovery and the cost of maintaining the centers is extremely high. We seek to support this socially important programme and to help financially resolve the issue of rent for premises, current utility payments, salaries for staff and improving the conditions of the centre. We sincerely look forward to working together. That is why I would like to ask the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of the Armed Forces to consider my appeal and, to the extent possible, to help the Kuzmin brothers' charity fund to implement their projects. Thank you. I hope you'll cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u134	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u135	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear Ukrainians! Welcome to the New Year's Eve, Christ's Christmas! First of all, I want peace, health, wealth in your families, the return of peace to the Ukrainian land, the end of this cursed war. Victory in this war must be the main task of the Ukrainian Parliament and the entire Ukrainian nation. Our faction this year, when it comes to the summation of it, passed a number of drafts in the first reading, which are extremely important for the future Ukrainian nation and state. These are changes to the Constitution as part of the definition of farming as an agrarian arrangement on Ukrainian soil. It's a bill called "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", which is supposed to become a jet engine of the Ukrainian economy. It's a bill to increase criminal responsibility for driving an unsettled vehicle. That's a lot of other bills. But the adoption of them in general, and most importantly, the introduction of them into life, is being stopped by the ruling coalition, the government, and the President. That's why in the next year, when Ukrainians will have a great choice, each of us, every Ukrainian, must realize that not only will they elect the President, but they will choose the future of our nation. And the main thing is not to step on the rake again, not to give in to flattering words. Because now the authorities are demonstrating what means they will fight for power in the future. If there are now bandits in the elections for the unified Biletsky territorial community in Ternopolska, if the agitators of our party have been attacked at night with weapons, what will happen next when the presidential and parliamentary campaign begins. Taking all this into account, I urge the Ukrainians to weigh in, to wisdom. I wish you happiness, a wise choice, a new president and a new parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u136	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u137	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! 2018 seemed a very difficult year for all of us, but nevertheless it was quite productive and effective in terms of both the work of parliamentarians and the real things that you and I were able to implement in the areas of the constituencies in which we were elected and delegated to the Ukrainian Parliament. We've managed to build roads, we've managed to find funds from the state budget, and we've engaged them to implement projects in education, medicine, culture. We have done many positive things in a year, two, three, or five, but they will be positive in the future of our children, in the future of our grandchildren. We launched the New Ukrainian School, giving young Ukrainians, young Ukrainians the chance to be competitive in the labour market, both in Ukraine and abroad. We have launched a new system of health care that will soon produce results. But nevertheless, we still have problems that we're going to have to solve in 2019. Let me give you an example. Gutsulski Karpati, Vidinska, Putila, Kosov or Vrhrovina, Stóžinečina or Suverjnjanščina is a region where guests can always be accepted, where they can develop internal Ukrainian tourism, where they can fill local budgets. But what do we have? We have problems with this today, it would seem, a small detail of how it would be possible for these tourists to come to these beautiful countries -- the Ukrainian Gutsulian Carpathians. Today, the Crucifixion has ceased to implement the tickets, according to the direction of the Chernobyl area, to the Frankish region, motivated by the fact that today it is more important for them to start trains to Petersburg or Moscow, rather than show the Ukrainians the greatness and beauty of the Ukrainian Carpathians. Nevertheless, I invite all Ukrainians to visit our guest country, visit the Visitorship, visit the Travelling Country, Kosovo and the Highlands, get acquainted with our traditions, celebrate the New Year and Christmas with us. Dear Ukrainians, welcome to the upcoming Christmas! I want strong health, strength, longevity, God’s favor, and blessing! God is with us! Glory to Ukraine! Christmas!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u138	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the national MP Sporish, and he was also given the word of two colleagues. Please, order six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u139	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, there's very few of us, but at the same time, that's good, because we have an opportunity to even speak for six minutes. Of course, I also wanted to welcome my constituents with Christmas Christ, with the coming New Year’s Eve, to wish us health, to wish we all were better off, especially the common people who are really in our district, the whole of Ukraine. For one thing, I also wanted to welcome the Catholic Christmas of our country’s Catholics. Because let's remember, last year we did everything we could to make it a weekend, and thank God that 25 numbers is going to be the weekend, even though Tuesday. And so I think they're going to be celebrating this holiday, not before during some work, during some work, but, at the same time, they're going to be on the weekend. We've done a lot of things, and we haven't been able to do much this year. But I'm counting, it's the same thing that the Supreme Council did a good job. Of course, to the failures of our work is that we have not been able to overcome the inviolability. And I think that this question from the New Year must be, because it is unnecessary to do so. We must remove the intrusiveness of the national MPs. And of course, the big failure of our work is that we haven't made any changes to electoral legislation. And I also think that's our minus. Although we've done a lot, because we're going to remember that even the budget is finally being adopted in time. Very much. Well, I would very much like to be a member of the pro-powered state to say that Tomos, who we are six numbers all waiting for, is the truth that will unite Ukraine and we should really pray to our Ukrainian Church. But I'd like some more of the worse. We must always serve our own districts, our own people. And the very appeal that came to me as a national MP from Winnitzka, I wanted to ask a question to the government today, well, unfortunately, it didn't work out in the absence of time. But I want to read this address from this rostrum today, because it's a real disaster that we don't listen to, and we often do everything we want to do. In my district, this is a village of the town of Chernivci on Winnitzkin, 180 people came to me and more about what was on them. In the center of a city - type village, a mobile radio antenna was placed in the Vodafone. And, you know, it's strange, but without any permission, no one gave it to them: neither the decisions of the village council, nor the district council, nor the administration, anything else. The residents turned to me, and I came to the district, and I saw for myself, and I was impressed. It was amazing that there was a nearby school, a nearby children’s playground, a center, or whatever, that houses lived nearby. And we know very well that these stations are somewhere behind the village, away from the district centers, somewhere on the hill and so forth. And right here in the center, they did it. Therefore, I would like to read out such a statement that we are asking for urgent action in response to the request for action taken to resolve the matter. This is to dismantle the base station of the mobile operator Vodafone’s transmission antenna (we know that it is MTS-Ukraine’s former) in connection with its arrival at the centre of Chernivka’s death, near the school, children’s playground, housing that is contrary to basic population safety standards, especially children. In the last two months without permission, without any survey of residents living nearby, without the consent of the team and the parents' committee of the Czernovetsek School No. 1, other institutions and institutions, ignoring the opinion of citizens, without the permission of local authorities, were involved in the work of setting up this base station of the mobile operator, Vodaphone. The base station is a real threat to health and life. It is located in a city of permanent human residence. This is a 24-hour impact on a person with a low - intensity electromagnetic field, a radio frequency action zone. We are not opposed to mobile communication as such and not against all base stations in the world, but we are firmly opposed to the similar placement of objects such as base antenna stations. I think that this address is going on, and so on, but, at the same time, I would like to ask the presiding officer that this would be my request from the rostrum, that the National Commission on State Regulations in the field of communication should pay attention, order and be dismantled accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u140	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u141	That it is the health of our people, our children, our children, and this is what matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u142	Thank you. Please describe this as a parliamentary address. People's MP Krivenko, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u143	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians, today was an hour of questions to the government. Once again, you see that somehow ministers speak during "hours of questioning," these are not specific questions from as many deputies as possible. Unfortunately, neither I nor Paul Kishkar were able to sign up, so I am addressing the question to the Prime Minister from this rostrum. Why was nothing done in 2018 to create an Expert Credit Agency? For the second year, you sabotage the law of Ukraine, voted as executive power to do nothing. Why do we see once again how 800 million dollars of grants have been received by one large agro-corporation? In that year it got 1 billion 200, you said publicly that you wouldn't allow it, and then again we couldn't and you didn't support my proposals, limit the maintenance of five million per company, so that we could create hundreds of real manufacturing businesses in the village, so that there would be hundreds of entrepreneurs, hundreds of businessmen, so that there would be added value and ownership in every village, not in the villages just to hire, and one owner lives either in a district center, or in a village where he did everything, and all the other villages are poor and all the other villages are destroyed. Why in my home field, in the space field, did 12 months go by as a branch lives without the Space Program Act? This is the first time in more than 20 years that there is no Space Program Act in Ukraine, because the past five-year program ended in the 17th year. Why didn't you create the $1.6 billion in the 18th-year budget for the Energy Efficiency Fund? Is there any money left? I understand when there's no money, 1.6 billion dollars is never used, and we keep paying crazy tariffs. Why did you hang up all of Ukraine with your billboards and write "Grysman's Government"? People in every city are talking to me, what is it, maybe it's the government of Ukraine? The government of Groysman is decentralization, a new phase. How do you think people react? Do you not realize that they understand what their money is made of? Just like welcoming all the politicians from all the TV channels with all the holidays for the budget money, those parties that are funded from the budget. Please tell me, why do I continue to hear constant complaints about the DABI, which collects $3-5 per square meter from the blockers, on the Holdgeondra, on the Holdgeokadastr? These are all the departments that are smoking you. I understand that we have suspended the motion of a resolution on your mistrust and your resignation, because the state of war, and you have never reported under the law to the government as you are obliged to do so, you are also violating the law here. So I urge you to resign on your own, because the way you manage and the way you do this year's unfinished budget is an absolute disgrace. I also want to contact our law enforcement officers. This year was extremely difficult, and we see coverage in many areas. First of all, it was Odessa, and there was an attack on the leader of the People's Movement, Odessa Michael Cologne, the whole of Ukraine saw the truck drive into his car. It's throwing grenades at the head of our district organization, the Tarastian organization, in Kiev. These are attacks that have recently taken place in Irpen. And we see that the authorities aren't responding completely, we see that there's actually an increase, first of all an increase with corrupt urban heads. Odessa is on the hook, so she promised to produce the necessary March 31st result. Irpine - also the Attorney General came, said that more crimes than in Butch, in Irpen, were not there, for a year and a half ago. They've done dozens of things -- and that's all, now the former urban head of Irpen is actually leading the BP headquarters in this district, in this area. We can't do this anymore! Look at the corruption that's taking place in the same region: they've issued licences for gas in the area to private companies, even though two years of Crushing asked for these territories, she's been doing them, and they've been state-owned, and Paul Kishkar was performing at a district session when the eyes of the district MPs were hiding. I urge all the Poltanians to see what the political forces are. You all know what political forces are there, whose deputies are there, whose factions are there, and whose factions are no longer to vote for. Look what's going on in Poltava. They've bought 1.2 million dollars worth more than they've bought the Cello Lugano Village Council -- 2.8 million versus 4100. And then there, the head of the BP Makovsky faction, the local, performing headship, comes in and opens the door on a holiday. In Odessa, they bought benches for 5 million dollars. They say they're Australian, with a light. It turns out that only the Australian company and the benches produced in Russia are worth 700,000 dollars. And such a robbery, it's repeated almost all over Ukraine. Look, we've really put the money in place, and it's very important for us that people understand that your choice depends on who's going to be your money and your property. It is very important that you understand clearly what is up to you, for you are being killed in the head, that nothing is up to you. Depends! No one would hang thousands of billboards, no one would buy TV channels, no one would ever go to the polls. You decide, you vote. But it is important for them to think that you are not dependent on them and that you do not go to the elections. And it turns out that half of those who came to the polls didn't go to the polls, half of those who came voted in favour of Greece, and then all 100 percent have claims. That's why I urge you to go to the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u144	Please, three more minutes of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Paul Mikolaiovich. And you have to realize clearly that Ukrainians have fought for freedom for hundreds of years. Will is the right to choose its power, not to have a governor-general from Warsaw, Vienna, Moscow, but to have his power. The one who doesn't go to vote, I ask you all to address and say that he has no right to say that he is a Ukrainian and respects our warriors who are fighting in the East, who are protecting our country from aggression, from having a Russian governor general here, to be the next Goblin, who is now Aksionov, who is in charge of Crimea, and if we don't want that, we should go to the vote. Now December 23 will be the local elections to the local OTG. The National Movement of Ukraine is taking over a large number of communities. I personally traveled around the city’s communities all, this is both Wonderland and Kopchinci and Kiverci and Radehov and Bibrka and Chigirin and Opishna and Medvedovka, Poltavščina, Cherkaščina, Žitomirščina, Volin, Lviv, Ternopolščina. And I urge you to come and support the motion candidates. We take responsibility for them. Because if they fail, you won't vote for us on March 31st, for our presidential candidate, and you won't vote for our list to the Supreme Council in October. The National Movement of Ukraine is being reborn throughout Ukraine, we have more than 25,000 members, and 1.5 thousand people came this year. We see the motors coming back, we see people seeing that it's actually a conservative force that protects traditional family values, which is right centeristic, which has neither ethnic nor linguistic chauvinism. Mr. Zissels was the head of the Nationality Commission, Edward Gurwitz was the confidant of Chernobyl, Mustafa Jamilev joined the Lions of the People's Movement of Ukraine in 98, and I urge you to support this election of motorists. I also wanted to welcome the Ukrainians with a fantastic event, whose power we may not even have imagined. For 330 years, even more, Ukrainians have been waiting for liberation from Moscow's spiritual captivity, and the event that took place -- giving Tomos Ukraine recognition of our independence, kicking us out of the clutches of a state-run Russian machine that has a spiritual front -- is a truly historic event. I want to thank everyone, first of all, the Patriarch of the Philaret, because, indeed, his struggle, his movement led to this. And to make it clear to the Ukrainians, to all the liars who say that the state has intervened in the affairs of the church. Look, Boris Godunov, when he took our territory, took the patriarch in general and held him prisoner. Peter I organized the church by creating the Holy Synod, and since 1721 it has been an absolute part of the governmental machine. This week, Patriarch Cyril was at the Military College of the Ministry of Defense, where they approved military strategies. You know, it's just everyone's doing their job. Thank God, Ukraine has its church. Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, you've had nine minutes. I'm sure you've had enough time. Thank you very much. Me, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform those who are in the hall today and report to my colleagues. The next time they pass the word to each other, they will speak in the order of the last line. Yeah? That is, the one who is the last person on this list to pass on the word, then the deputy will speak. Because it turns out that MPs passed the word and those who were ahead had to wait much longer. Please remember. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sporish is number 18, and Markevich, who passed on the word Soboljevo, is number 11. And Sobolev's got numbers on 14th, 15th, 16th and 18th. Please, National Deputy Sobolev. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u147	This man is called John Rusev, a scientist, environmentalist. Thank God Mr. John is alive. I'm showing this photograph so that the people in his area, the people who have authority there, know that we're looking after him, we're worried about him, and we're demanding protection for him, as well as for any other citizen in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. As I said, Mr. John is in charge of environmental protection in Tatarbunar district, Odiščina. This is not easy and often dangerous. Mr. John survived several attacks, being repeatedly beaten for his principled position, for fighting poaching, which in many cases is linked and possible only in conspiracies with local authorities. Why am I speaking of Mr. John from the Parliamentary rostrum? The thing is, when I get tired of my friends, my friends, of strangers who are taking a fundamental position throughout the country, there are attacks. Like many others, I come to their aid, but I no longer want to do so after the attacks. We've launched a defense initiative with law enforcement agencies. And the purpose of this initiative is to show people who do things important to all of society or to their communities and are in increased danger. I'd like to tell the Chief of the Tatarbunar Police, Mr. John Tricolitis. We know of the danger that John Rusev faces. And you know what we now know. You have a personal service responsibility to make things right with the local activist, the environmental guard. As far as I am concerned, after the last attack on Mr. John, two ministers promised him the help of the investigation: Semerak and Habakkuk. I hope they're honest and responsible in this case. But once again, I would like to say to all: Mr. John is known to be followed by many people throughout the country. We will definitely come to his aid if anything happens, so let nothing happen to him. To him, to all the other people who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u148	30 seconds. That's it? Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u149	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable voters, I am primarily addressing you because I am reporting my work for the current year, traditionally before the New Year’s. The written version of my report will be in every box of my voters by the end of the new year, and so far, with your permission, a few numbers. "Together with gifts," says my colleague. What should we say today? This year, I was able to register 37 bills and draft regulations. A lot of this or a lot of it doesn't judge me. But in general, I've taken 157 of my legislative initiatives. About the amendments that were also very much budgeted, the Budget Code is a separate story. Who's very interested, you can see all these things on my personal page. It's a separate story with citizens' references. In 2018, I received almost 1.5 thousand letters, 670 written addresses. On them I prepared 415 references to all essentially public authorities to resolve the painful issues of people. In addition to writing and receiving citizens at my reception in Smila, at my reception in Kamyanka, Cherkas region, I regularly visit the villages of my constituency because I believe that it is the only way the national deputy can know about the problems that people have. During this year, I was able to visit Grushkovka, Mihailovtsa, Lebedovtsa, Rygorodi, Kosars, Telepics, Timoshovtsa, and Jurchissa of the Kamyan region, Bilozori, Vergunah, Dubiyovtsa, Leskah, Sagunovtsa, Hataks, Hudjaks, and the Red Freedom of the Cherkas region, in the Great Jablounovs, Balaklei, Brezniaks, Golovina, Zalewkstynówka, Kostinovsa, Little Starosil, Shepherds, Rotmistrovci, Samgradka, Sunka, and Teklny Smilian region. I deliberately call the name of the village, so that people will hear that, apart from the big cities that receive big government grants and have large resources for their own projects, there are still small villages that need to be helped in the first place. And I'm pleased to say that as of today, within my constituency, which is 85 population points, there's no village where there's no playground where there's no sports grounds. And the football fields, which until recently could only be dreamed of by large city dwellers, are now known as at least at ten popular polling stations in my constituency. Once again, time is running out, all the copies of my report will be in your boxes by the end of the year. If someone doesn't get it, please call my reception room. We'll be sure to get them there. With the New Year, with Christmas Christ! I wish you happiness, good and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u150	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u151	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, of course, I would like first of all to welcome you with the festivals: with the Christmas of Christ, with the New Year! And I'd like to say a little bit about what unfortunately the Supreme Council didn't do this year. Because at the end of the year, it's usually the summation. And I can tell you, she didn't do much. In particular, she failed to fulfill the promises she had made. But at the same time, I would like to focus primarily on what Freedom offered and not only on Freedom, but 226 local councils across Ukraine supported this proposal. And so 151 people's deputies with their signatures supported our position in the same way. This is an antioligarchy package of radical transformations. A package of specific bills that are called upon to bring Ukraine out of the crisis, which are called upon to make our economy strong, to carry out real delligarchy, to bring about social justice in Ukraine and actually to start the Ukrainian economy. Make every Ukrainian rich. And we are proposing a specific list of these bills: on the return of capitals from offshore and the elimination of money withdrawal schemes from Ukraine; on the demonopolization and liquidation of the oligarchic model of the economy; on the elimination of private monopolies; on the prohibition of privatization of strategic enterprises, on deligarching energy and establishing fair tariffs; on the elimination of energy security of Ukraine, on the functioning of the gas distribution system; on the way in which natural gas is used in Ukraine; on the issue of land, on the prohibition of trade in agricultural land; on the new Tax Code and on the development of the middle class; on the establishment of a progressive tax scale on the principle of "small business, large business taxes"; on the establishment of progressive taxes on land and on the development of the middle class; on the establishment of a progressive tax system of tax evasion; and on the finalisation of the procession of the judiciary; on the way out; on the way out; and on the draft law; and on the closure of bankruptcy; and on the drafts. These are the first decisions that need to be adopted in order to really talk today about real changes in our country, so that, in fact, Ukraine is strong and able to protect its national interests, win war and ensure peace. In fact, Freedom offers these decisions for this. Unfortunately, today there is no political will in Parliament to implement these decisions. But I'm sure 2019 will have great challenges for Ukrainians on the one hand, but on the other hand, it gives us a chance. And I urge all Ukrainians to be wise and realize the importance of their choice, and then we will have such a President and such a Supreme Council, which will actually implement these decisions and make every Ukrainian's life better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u152	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u153	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, first of all, I would like to welcome everyone with the coming festivals, the New Year and the Christmas Christ, and to wish every Ukrainian, first of all, health and family well-being, faith in the future, faith in victory, because we really deserve it. Unfortunately, by summarizing this year, we can say that we did not get the most important thing that concerns our Ukraine today -- we did not gain peace, we did not bring peace back to our country and we did not overcome the economic crisis. But enough to talk about bad, we talk about how bad things are every day, how we see problems. Finally, we need to answer what to do and how to get out of this bad situation. And I believe there's a way out, and our Radical Party team is offering an alternative. The next, 19th year, will be very important for Ukraine, this will be a year of choice, where our country will move, by choosing a strategic plan for the coming years, or, important, decades: whether to go into development, or to stay in the same place that we are today. We're proposing a way of development. That is why we very much hope that, shortly after New Year's Eve, our proposals for the development of the country will be accepted in this room, namely, the changes to the Constitution, which will state that agriculture is an agrarian arrangement in the country. Finally, in 27 years, we're going to get farmers and write them down in the Constitution. We propose to adopt, on the second reading, a strategic economic law that will change the country's economic policy in general: "Pay Ukrainians, Buy Ukrainian." It's a law that saves 400 billion dollars spent every year on government purchases, saves them here, in the country, so that this money works for our businesses, gives jobs and wages to Ukrainians. We've registered and we're going to demand the adoption of a package of drug pricing laws as soon as possible, the cancellation of VAT on drugs, the criminal responsibility for falsifying drugs, because Ukrainians need to be healthy, and today every other Ukrainian can't buy a cure, can't cure his disease, so we have an extremely high mortality, which is why we have a demographic crisis. Finally, we propose to change economic policies: raise minimum wages and pensions. Regrettably, the government and the parliamentary majority have adopted a budget that does not correspond to the economic situation today or to the social situation of total poverty. So we suggest that we change this situation, change economic policy, raise minimum wages to at least 6,000 dollars and minimum pensions to 4,000 dollars. I believe that this will be done immediately after another presidential election, where it will win, I believe, common sense and Ukraine will make the right choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u154	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Bresück.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen! Two words, they may sound so common to Ukraine, but this is the limit of impossible: tyranny and looting of local budgets. Mary of the cities in Ukraine received letters from the skynergo, which read: "Therefore, as of 01.01.2019, the discharge of electricity for legal consumers with zone counters will be carried out at retail rates without the application of tariff coefficients." That means no night fare. Why did the skyscrapers make everyone put on zone counters (two - zone, three - zoned ones)? To rob today? This increases their spending by 50 percent on nighttime lighting alone. Either they don't have the money and they're going to turn off the light of the night, which is very dangerous today, or they're going to be taking money from medicine, from education, from other expenses, from energy conservation. But there's another catastrophe: it's the water ducts. After all, water canals used a night - long tariff to make money on people’s water. Today the mayor of one of the cities calls me and says, "When I'm released today, I'm released by 0.76, after that, I'm going to have almost two bracelets." What is it? This is a simple robbery at the end of the year of local government budgets. Why tyranny? Because all the measurements that ring, I say, "Why are you silent?" They fear, they fear political persecution and pressure. It's not democracy and it's not fair. Therefore, I call on the mayors of all cities of Ukraine not to remain silent, and next week, come to the NCREKP, which is run by the President of Ukraine. Because the government says, "You know, it's none of our business, it's the decision of the NCREP." Then ask the President. It's a disgrace to Ukraine's 28th year of independence, it's a pharisaicism, hypocrisy and controversy of the government, the President and all the power calling. You can't rob people like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u156	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u157	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Only a stupid, stupid and lazy person doesn't know what happened to us at the State Institute of Hearts when we elected the CEO. Insinuations, provocations, accusations -- they were all about getting Dr. Todurov out of office. What has been the result, and what has been the result? A hundred percent support. And today there is every reason for this person to be appointed CEO. I am now addressing Prime Minister Groysman of Ukraine with the fact that we have insider information that the Ministry of Health is preparing all kinds of provocative things so that Dr. Toddurov is not elected head of this facility. What did he get from the so - called o. Minister? She is ashamed to have a doctor who is involved in corruption. And it would be very interesting to say, is anyone ashamed of the results of this person's activities at Madison Medical Center, when she was still working there, issuing instructions on vaccination. What was the reaction of the people? And were they disbarring someone for the things that this person was making? Perhaps this badness is involved. What's to be surprised about? Can a person with secondary education find anything in common with a member of the Academy of Medical Sciences, a doctor of medical science, Professor Toddurov? That's probably why she's having a hard time talking. One more. I'm calling the Prime Minister. Everything that says so. Minister, this is all transferred to the government. When the collective was likened to cattle and slaves, it means that the Prime Minister feels the same way. You either make amends or you treat those people as well. And the fact that there are strangers in the ministry shows a fresh letter signed by the philosopher Stefanish. It turns out that we're creating mobile brigades today from the number "vaccinator-rehabilitator-rehabilitator." Reanimator." First of all, there is no such profession. How could such nonsense be written? Separate the car, separate the pharmacy, thermal containers. Where do you get the money for this? What should be done by those who have signed contracts with the National Service, where such funds are not available? It went to all the areas, shame, shame. You know, the Ministry of Health, MOH, has become a special threat. I'm calling on the Prime Minister of Ukraine: stop the oblivion of the ignorant who work for the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u158	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u159	Good day, dear colleagues who are still present in this Hall are respected Ukrainians! Oleg Musei, 124th Sokalščina constituency, Red Town. First of all, I would like to welcome my voters with the coming holidays, with the next Christmas, with the New Year, with the next Christmas and with the old New Year! Because the Supreme Council, unfortunately, and in wartime, I can see so much that it's not going to work. To our composition of the Supreme Council, I think you've been in four years of our cadence, distinguished Ukrainians, probably diagnosed, and I'm convinced that by coming to a meeting every month, meeting with voters, accepting citizens. One thing I want to do before I finish with the welcoming words too is to address and form as a parliamentary appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers about what the Prime Minister has not yet said, including today's response to the "hours of questions to the Government" about gas tariffs, just as it is within the direct competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's called extra credit, virtually everyone, to Ukrainians who didn't have hot water, but put their own bills, bought, spent huge money, electric water heaters. So this is what the smart Cabinet of Ministers thought about what he thought was wrong. And even though people don't waste gas, they don't heat the water with gas themselves, their gas companies add up to essentially the same number, the same amount as they do to heat it with gas. In fact, the Prime Minister always professes that we should pay for what we have given to people. So this is what the head of the Self-Help faction mentioned, just after that, it's also very relevant to review the immediate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will cancel the robbery total for the unused gas of our population. So I ask you to define this as a parliamentary appeal, so that the appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers is immediately reviewed, and the question is settled immediately: those with electric boilers have not been skinned by three skins. Finally, I would also like to welcome to the New Year's celebrations all our colleagues, and all our people, our colleagues in Parliament. A colleague of the democratic opposition is also the Movement of New Forces, this is the National Movement of Ukraine, this is the patriotic party that the Freedom, present, is all the patriotic parties present here in the hall, with the seven national MPs who represent the really Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian people must make a wise decision in their election. The following year is a year of wise decisions and conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u160	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u161	What every national MP has done is real and how he works in Parliament. So I sincerely believe in the wisdom of the Ukrainian people. Congratulations again on the upcoming festivals! And all the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u162	Thank you. The last speech is the People's Chamber of Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u163	Praise Jesus Christ! Ukrainian people, compatriots, countrymen, voters! A working group was held yesterday with the participation of NAC deputies and representatives of Naftogaz Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Energy to study the problem of fraud in relation to the collection of allegedly fines for three years to non-profit gas consumers, particularly entrepreneurs. And they took part in the business of Terepolska, and they came up with a concept of how to deal with this issue, how to make proposals to the legal and regulatory base for an effective basis. labour relations between gas consumers and service providers: firstly, the abolition of all these fines, secondly, the immediate involvement of all disabled consumers, thirdly, that the services and representation of counters should be carried out and further tested. sole responsibility of those who provide services. When we talk about the summation of this year, we have to remember what's going on in the reform of rural medicine is just the beginning. But in each practically populated area there are some new developments, changes in equipment, such as rural outpatients. It'll be better in the future. If we think about the construction of local and road buildings. And public roads, especially those of mass significance, are the achievement of this year. The rebuilding of the army, particularly the strengthening of the defence and what is involved in my district, in the city of Czartkov. Getting a visa, fighting for the state's language, the education we stand for after the long tortures of the Holocaust, the red repressions. We should also mention the greatest achievement this year, namely, the return to historical justice: the auto-cefalia of our Orthodox Church. In addition, there are a lot of further work that we need to do next year -- this is a matter of changes to legislation relating to the circulation of land, and we need to accept our fellow MPs so that our Ukrainian land can give jobs, wealth to Ukrainian families, prosperity to communities and Ukrainian villages, not to the agroholdings or the financial clans of the world. We also need to pay attention to working together in Parliament. Ukraine is now having a difficult time, in danger. And because more than ever, we need connections to protect the country, to rebuild it. And understand that first of all patriotism is not about who shouts louder "Glory to Ukraine!"and whoever does his work, or in the trenches, or as an entrepreneur, by paying taxes, works for the good and for the glory of our Ukraine. So. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u164	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u165	So, I want to welcome the fellow countrymen and country voters with the New Year, let it bring us all peace, peace, but through victory. To greet the Christ Christmas so that the star may shine. that the Christmas star may shine upon all of us by God’s grace, give us health, and give us peace to our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our speeches. I would like to remind the secretariat first of all that I am asking to make a presentation by the National Deputy Musia to the Prime Minister as a parliamentary address. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've announced. The National Deputy Bondar, I have announced, to make a speech as a deputy address. I would also like to read out the statement made by the national deputy of Tetjana Ritchkova. On December 18, 2018, when voting in favour of draft Law No. 9122 amending certain legislative acts concerning the procurement of goods, jobs and services for defence purposes, her import card did not work. Accordingly, she requests that her vote be taken into account for the bill. Please take this into account at the Secretariat. And for my part, I also want to draw attention to a few things that we're going to close this year. For four years during Friday’s session, I hear the national MPs turn to the empty hall and appeal to people, humiliating the same parliament again. I want to tell those who are watching this meeting. There are parliaments in democratic countries, and if you pay attention and attend these meetings, many of these meetings are held with just as few deputies -- those for whom it is important. And yet, the quality of life of the people in the country is determined not by how many deputies sit in the hall, how much time, how much effort, how much honesty they give to work with people. The MP's job is representation, it's a job that's a lot of other shows. So I ask you very, very much of the people's deputies: don't underestimate each other; don't underestimate Parliament by showing an empty hall and appeal to people. After that, leaving the Plenary Hall. You don't have to do this. I think that people will have more respect for Parliament when the MPs themselves respect it and respect each other. And to conclude, I would normally like to welcome all Ukrainians to the upcoming festivals. And I really want health: health to all of you, health to your loved ones. I want you to love, love yourself, love each other, and want to. Yeah, it's gonna be a tough year, 2019, but we're a day away. Let's be happy, we'll be happy, and we'll have a little pleasure in life. Be healthy! I'll see you next year at 10 a.m. on January 15th.
