ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. Are there any more factions? "Peter Prashenko's Block," is Arthur Gerasimov. "The People's Front" is. "self-help" is. So, colleagues, I suggest we get started, then the MPs will get along. So I'm asking you to sign up for the meeting, please. [[10:05:52]] We'll wait for the deputies. Invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall. I, my colleagues, came up with two applications, so I'll read them later, before the "hour of questions to the government." Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that there will be a 15-hour session today, dedicated to honoring the memory of the victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine. And I would like to ask the national deputies to take part in this meeting. Colleagues, I know how tired everyone is, we've really had a rough night, we've only made a budget decision at six o'clock. But today we have to take our steps -- and "the hour of questions to the government," and the reading of queries, and the speeches of the national MPs. I think that's what everyone's interested in. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, and we have to spend this day, even though everyone's tired. And please, colleagues, sign up, please. Please. [[10:08:02]] There's potential. Please invite deputies to the hall, colleagues. Today we will listen to Paul Dmitrovich Petrenko, the minister of justice. So, colleagues, I'd like you to announce that the deputies are entering the hall. Please come in. Colleagues, please hold the registration. Please register. [[10:10:07]] Heads of factions, look at the towers. So, colleagues, it's time to move on to an hour of questions to the government. Please take part in the registration. I'd like you to sign up. Turn on the registration. [[10:12:27]] The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. First, I'm going to read two statements. One is from Gusak Volodymyr Georgiyovich not to count his vote in favour of the draft State Budget Act. And Bachevoy's vote is not to be taken into account when voting for Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2019. And, colleagues, we're passing through, an identical statement from Morocco -- not counting his vote "yes" in the budget vote, and also from Dobkin -- not counting his vote "yes" in the state budget vote. So let's start with an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to speak with the Cabinet of Ministers of Justice of the Ukraine of Paul Dmitrovich Petrenko. And, colleagues, let's welcome the government that is present in the hall, despite the difficult budgetary night, and Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir BorisovichGreysman. Welcome! [[Applause]] It was a tough, tense night, but everyone in the hall still keeps working. I invite Paul Petrenko to the rostrum. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I warmly welcome the adoption of last night's very important legislative initiatives that support the country's financial stability, the adoption of an extremely important law for the whole country -- the State Budget Act. Today, I would like to mark another very important initiative that concerns millions of Ukrainians, which is aimed at safeguarding property rights in our country. This week a bill 9311 was registered in the Ukrainian Parliament, which was developed by the Ukrainian deputies together with the government and with the entire business community: with all associations and representatives and trade unions and employers. It is designed to protect property rights and to combat raiding. This initiative was developed on the basis of the commission of the president of the country, Peter Prashenko, who gave it two weeks ago when he met business. Business has noted that a number of government initiatives that we have taken over the past two years, namely those initiatives that have been aimed at deregulation and the protection of property rights and the fight against the rights of law enforcement authorities, have yielded results. Let me remind you that together with you, we have adopted two important packages of Mask Show Stop laws that actually took away the lasagna that allowed law enforcement to deal with business pressures, to do illegal searches, to remove documents, to remove the assets of entrepreneurs. The second package that was adopted is laws that were aimed at fighting raids, with raids in the agricultural sphere. And so today we've come up with a comprehensive bill that actually cleans up the laziness that's left on the hands of entrepreneurs who actually focused their activities solely on stripping Ukrainian citizens of property and property rights. This bill has been drafted for two weeks and is a good sign of the openness and cooperation of the Ukrainian business and government. All without exception of the business association supported the bill. And I would like to tell you today about the basics of this bill, which your fellow MPs, who have become the authors of this law, have laid the foundation for it. We solve two big problems. The first problem is actually cleaning up the potential of the subjective influence of some registrants, or some of those who have the right to register in the property domain, and providing guarantees to the owner in the actual preservation of their property and inadmissibility of raiding. And the second big initiative that's set out in this law is to provide services to the state for those citizens who live in the most remote areas of Ukraine. This is about 7 million Ukrainians living in rural areas who do not have access to notary services, the services of state notaries on the basic but very important factual issue: on the issue of ownership, on the question of inheritance, on the question of what State is actually obliged to give to every citizen by virtue of the Constitution and legislation. We have actually a sad statistic that in the 122 countries of Ukraine, and this is a third of the territory of Ukraine, there is no state and private notary. Some 7 million Ukrainians live in this area. And these people, we've done a fruitful sociological survey, the experience of these citizens actually says that the huge problem is that there is no access to the services of the state, to the basic services of the state. I'll just give you a few examples. The city of Manevichi in Volin is also a state-run and private notary, most residents of the region have the status of Chernobyl disaster victims and the corresponding benefits, they have to travel almost 300 kilometers to the nearest state notary. And this problem has been going on for decades. The village of Bereživka, the Chernigiv region, people used to travel to Ichnia, 100 kilometers from the Coast to form an inheritance or form an elementary trust. The state notary retired, now they have to go 250 kilometers to Chernobyl to do what the state has to do to guarantee every citizen in any area where he lives. The Semenovka District Center in Poltavščina is both state-run and private notary. People take turns, and the queues make up 8-12 months just to file papers for the discovery of an inheritance. This problem is complex throughout the country. We're adopting in this package of laws actually a novelty that allows for the elimination of government notaries deficits in rural areas. And we're going to encourage the united territorial communities that are now being created to have an additional institutional capacity to create jobs and to take over this function in the same way that a person living in a united territorial community has comfortable services from the state for the taxes that they pay to the local budget. The second initiative. We analyzed the value of notary services for such socially sensitive things as an inheritance, as a form of trust, as a form of donation to a rural house to a grandmother who wants to pass on to her grandchildren all that she's earned in her lifetime, and found that there is a very deep injustice in pricing among private notaries. Few of them are in these areas, and the value of these services is exceedingly high. In this law, we, at the commission of the President, collect so-called pseudo-data, which has been collected for almost 20 years by private notaries from business and from citizens, is one percent of what it seems to be a state-of-the-art tax on all rights, and in fact, no amount of it has gone as a government tax, these funds went into the pockets of the people who did these services. We're making a rule that says that the cost of notary services in a private notary is determined by the agreement of the parties to be competition. As far as government notaries are concerned, they draw up a government tax that goes to the state budget. We're saying that for those categories of citizens who are socially vulnerable, that's basically pensioners, disabled children, orphans, ATOs, families of the dead, we set the social benefits of 50 percent of the amount of government duty on those services that relate to inheritance, property formation, confidence-building -- those socially significant services that these citizens need, and we set the top of the government's tax agenda for 10,000 non-taxable minimum income for citizens. So we're actually approaching these services to Ukrainian citizens, so that the formation of an inheritance or a rural house in the Chernigiv region doesn't cost 80 to 100,000 dollars of the winnings that were collected by those who are monopolies in this area. That's why this initiative is extremely important, extremely social, and it's the basis of the bill. Now let's go back to the issues that concern the protection of property rights. We have gathered with business all the best work that has been done in Parliament on various committees. I want to thank both the head of the agrarian committee and the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Andria Ivanchuku, and Irina Lucenco, and Alexandri Kugel, and many of the many deputies who have joined this process. And in the law, we put in a few large blocks of money. First. We're depriving business registration and real estate of utilities. Unfortunately, when decentralization was done and we gave these powers to local communities, it was the utilities that were created by local communities that proved to be the ones that allowed the most infringements in the field of registration. 90 percent of citizens’ complaints about illegal registrations, including large numbers of raids and raids, relate to registered companies operating in utilities. At a previous meeting, the government banned the branch offices of utilities from registering. In the law, we clean up utilities as registration entities. To date, only local communities, such as OTG, city councils, and reservatories and notaries, will have the right to continue to carry out registration activities. Communiqués go back in time. And I am convinced that those registrants who have committed a number of violations in the past year will bear a strict responsibility, the criminal responsibility that we voted with you last year in legislation. The other one. We protect Ukrainian citizens from counterfeiting. We see that there is such a mass phenomenon when contracts for land rations are forged, when a person who lives in a village who does not know the details of this complex legislation is fooling around, in fact he signs one text of the land lease contract, and then another text appears, which is completely unfavourable for a peasant, and a person is chased around, judging by the courts, he does not receive either the rent or the crop he should have received. And this phenomenon has, unfortunately, become massive in recent decades. We're introducing a novelty that allows the land-pike owner to determine that any rights, any contracts with this land-pile, land leases will be made solely in notary form. Then he puts such a branch in his register -- and no registrar around the country will be able to register in a simple written form changes to the lease contract if the owner has determined that he should be only notarial and only protected by actual legislation on notariat. We also clean up in the law of manipulation regarding the terms of the land lease agreement. We prescribe that if the landowner decides that he will give the land for 3 years, 5 years, or 10 years, the register shall immediately indicate the duration of the land lease agreement. And when the land lease ends, the register ends with the registration of the relevant land lease, so that there will be no manipulations with this peasant, and so the renter doesn't say, well, you know, you wanted five years, and then you reconsidered and made a lease for seven years. And the actual violation of Ukrainian peasant rights begins again. Third. We also propose in the law to increase the qualifications and requirements of the registrars themselves, who are coworkers of local councils. We predict that those registrants who take this position should learn and pass an examination so that they know the basic legislation and the responsibility they will bear if they are to carry out a registration action in violation of the law until they are criminally responsible. I'll remind you, that's a responsibility up to 10 years in prison for illegally registering changes in the owner of real estate or business. So registrators should know, learn, and be responsible if they violate actual legislation. Six. We're also cleaning up a series of manipulative standards that applied to so-called old loads. In the weight register there are the burdens that ten years ago, old criminal cases, different years of arrest of judges who actually restrict the owner, for example: a woman who has an apartment in Kiev single-room, found that as early as 2004, in a criminal case to which she had no relationship, she was arrested as an investigator. This criminal case has been closed, the investigator has been released, the prosecutor has been released, and the person still cannot lift the burden of his legal property after the end of 15 years after the crime has been committed. So we're predicting a rule that says that the burdens, the old burdens, the deadlines of which are more than seven years, if the body that placed the burden is not taking any action to extend or confirm the legitimacy of such a burden or arrest, they are excluded from the corresponding load register. We also provide additional tools to protect property rights to corporate rights, to rights in limited societies to prevent owners, especially owners of small particles in societies, from being deprived of their rights by raiders. All these initiatives were laid down in this bill and I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament has the opportunity to unite and to approve this bill as a law in general by the end of this year. It will definitely bring additional benefits in terms of the protection of property rights and the protection of interests and business and Ukrainian citizens. And those social initiatives that relate to 7 million Ukrainians living in rural areas without access to notary services, to public notaries first, will have a huge effect, including the development of these regions. Because if a united community is able in the region, if there is both a notary and an appropriate service center, there is life in this region: there is both a school and a kindergarten, and an appropriate health care facility, and then people return. Our job with you is to motivate Ukrainians to live in Ukraine so that they don't leave and that the state will provide the most comfortable and affordable services in Ukraine. Therefore, I ask you to unite and vote in favour of this bill in the next plenary week. We as the Ministry of Justice are absolute partners and I guarantee that the law will be implemented in part of the powers of the Ministry of Justice and Government as soon as it is adopted. Thank you very much, and please support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Paul. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's a performance, and now there's gonna be questions. I, my colleagues, would like to remind you that we have the first block from the factions of the question, and the second block from the people's deputies. So now I'm asking you to record questions from factions and groups. Who intends to ask questions, please take part in the registration and the record. Please hold the recording, please. From Fatherland, the word is "Alexandra Kugel." Please, Alexandra Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u4	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to speak to the Minister of Justice of Paul Petrenko. I understand the importance of this bill. Unfortunately, in my opinion -- and frankly, in a friendly way -- you've done a lot of work with notaries. On the one hand, we don't have today's clear codification and classification of these notaries by region: in one region there's a lot of them, there's no other. Secondly, you know, I told you that in Smilli and in the region of Smil, in order to get to the state notary, it takes seven years to write, because it was a rule in the law that notaries of state didn't take on people's practices. We need to make some kind of a serious change, not just a specific one, but a culture. And there's a signal for you from the Fastov district. I've met entrepreneurs, there's just showcases or bribes leave all the private notaries working today, and now they're offering for money, come back in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u5	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u6	Thank you. . Come, and we will restore you. I think that you have very clearly felt this situation as a minister, which today is very difficult for the people of Ukraine personally and personally in the village. Let's not just take it urgently, let's just work it out so that we don't just recycle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u7	That'll be the answer. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u8	I'm going to remind you that the problem with government notaries has been 10 years. Such liberalisation was once done when many private notaries were admitted to the profession. They're 5,000 now, and in many cases they're out of a job. And state notaries have the same status as private, but the government notary's salary, even after we've raised it several times, is actually 15 thousand dollars. And state notaries actually do social work -- they're people of pre-pension age. I am truly grateful to them because they are actually working on enthusiasm. What do we propose in this law? In this law, we invite specialists, consultants in state notary offices, those working in the local self-government in this area, to come to the position of state notary, to work three years, necessarily three years in rural areas, to solve this social problem, which is very painful for people. And then they can do a private notary. This problem has been created by such a simple deregulation. You and I will definitely solve it. And every Ukrainian has the right to access notary services. I am convinced that we will gather in the hall and vote in favour of this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u10	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a personal request from you. With the aim of improving the organization’s provision of medical care, hospital districts began to be established. There are different points of view as to how many there should be. In time, thanks to you, Lvivščina has received her project of a single medical space and the creation of one hospital district because that is what medical personnel want. We had a field meeting with a committee in Kharkish. What did we see? In Kharkiv, there is a decision of the City Council of Kharkiv, District Council, District Councils, Medical Society and most importantly, the desire of the District State Administration to work in the form of a single medical space, and more specifically one hospital district. These documents have been handed over to the Ministry of Health, and they have been there since September 1. No noise, no spirit. I have a request for you. Call the district administration, take control. These people are going to do it because they want to do it and they're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u11	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Mr. Igor! Thank you for asking. I'm going to have to pick up all the documents that were sent to the Kharkiv District State Administration, and we'll take this up. In the absence of any obstacles, it is clear that such initiatives should be supported. But I have to look at the materials in order to give an answer. That's why it's fixed, and I'll give you an assignment. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u12	Thank you. KorchinskaOxana Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u13	Hello. Praise Jesus Christ! Question to the Prime Minister. Volodymyr Borisovich, how will we be able to reinvent our army with you, help the front, if, nevertheless, the Ukrainian National Security Act, where we should have allocated a budget with you at least 3 percent, the Ukraine budget since 2019 broken? We have less than 3 percent on the defense complex. And how are we going to be able to build the ohmatdit with you this year if exactly 45 percent is allocated to the ohmatdit construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. In fact, according to national legislation this year, this budget, which was approved yesterday, is sorry, today there is 5.38 percent of GDP, I think. That's the total number. As far as I'm concerned. It's security and defense, right. In terms of redistribution within, according to national legislation, the government does not make this allocation. The distribution is carried out by the National Security and Defence Council. And that's what happened this time. But the total amount is enough. We are constantly working to find provisions to increase the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in particular anything relating to material and technical security and re-arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u15	Thank you. Revega's "Peter Prashenko's Block" gives us a word for a question. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, yeah. Okay, I'll let you finish, and then I'll give you my word. Finish up. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u16	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. And what's going on at Ohmatdit Hospital. You know, for our government, for me personally, this is a very important project that we've been doing, and we've basically brought it out of the way to a normal institution. This year, we have foreseen another billion dollars to be built. We're going to watch, 600 million plus 400 is going to be a billion. We're going to look at resource utilization, efficient use, and we're going to see what else we're going to need to make a redistribution of capital expenditure in order to complete this construction. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u17	Thank you. Revenges the word for Aresonkov’s performance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u18	Dear Volodymira Borisovich and Gennady Grigorovitch, I address you first, although this is also a matter for other members of the government. This is a continuation or, more specifically, a concentration of efforts today to complete the decentralization reform. Of course, this is one of the most successful reforms, all of which are recognized, including our opponents. At the same time in places now, there is a situation in areas where communities that have failed to unite or are still far from that remain in a very unfavourable situation from the point of view of the development of their territories, the lack of material and technical resources and so forth. Don't you think it's still necessary to focus the next year on bringing communities together in any way and getting out for the 20th year, at the beginning of it, and with already prepared administrative reform and all the other components?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. In fact, the decentralization reform that we're doing is quite successful, and we're seeing very positive practices today. Finally in four years, and it's almost five years old, this reform, we've seen that the system and the funding, and the authority has changed, and we've started to really develop local self-government. If someone says it is not true, he is either wicked or does not understand at all. Because you can look at local self-government today, which has gotten a lot more resources than ever, I'm talking about it as a practice. The only thing that sometimes is that they can hide themselves for lack of decentralization, but in fact they don't. Because most of the mayors of Ukraine who are chosen are professional enough, quality enough, and there is a result. And where there's only one word and a conversation, they just don't use decentralization tools to succeed. So the basic position is to reform and create communities that are able to. And this is the process of unification that we started in accordance with the Concept that was approved on April 1, 2014, which is that we have to create, empower, empower, and provide resources. There is an idea, and the expert environment tells us that there is a need to complete the merger on a new basis, conduct the elections, and that all Ukrainian communities will be able to do so. I think that's the right approach. But this approach needs to be done very carefully on one side, with other quality discussions. In particular, I have recently created a working group of experts and government representatives to update the concept and action plan that was approved in 2014, including this issue. And finally, we need to move on to change to the Constitution of Ukraine, where we can define full and universal local self-government with authority and responsibility, including on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u20	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u21	including at the district level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u22	And please add HennadiZubko, Vice Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has spoken of strategic matters, and I would like to say about the specific tactical and practical tasks that we have now. Today, there is a registered law of 8051 in Parliament: the principles of the administrative and territorial system. This law completely opens up new possibilities. First of all, it brings us out of the Soviets, where we're still in the territorial system. And you know, so far, we've practically been acting on the Order of the 1982 Supreme Council Presidency of the Soviets. Ukrainian RSR. Now we need to take a new approach, look at the administrative system, recognize, first of all, the basic level of the community, so that we can move to remove the conflict that today is at the level of the state administrations and virtually those of the OTG that are formed within the region: either one or several, and there are virtually no barriers to the development and unification of societies. That's absolutely the right question for Horizon 2020. We have a specific horizon and local elections in 2020. We want to get the only territorial basis that would not give us a "various" election: where is the village head, where is the village head, where is the head of a united territorial community or city. We have to make sure that we end up at one base level. On the other hand, if we don't take decisive steps, we're going to lose another five years for the country. Why? Because next year we're going to be told that we don't have to go to the elections because there's another election in 2020, and then we're going to reintroduce the country in the next five years, where we're going to have rural heads who don't have powers, people who are discriminated against in this area, Ukraine who can't influence their budget, development and their future. That's why I'm addressing the Supreme Council in the first place, and I'm asking the Chief of the Supreme Council. The law has already passed, as it were, the committee's work, voted for inclusion in the agenda, and we need to move forward, well, and those strategic things that relate to the change to the Constitution of Ukraine, and that's the main thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u24	Thank you. You know, I'm very supportive all the time and responsible for all the bills that relate to the development of local self-government, but I think it's not just this one law that will solve this problem. We really need, I totally agree, we need to develop a set of measures to have some stage where we all have to fill and complete the territorial communities. Because I, knowing from my experience, have some communities that if you don't tell them and show them the horizon, they'll never make a decision, it could be 5 years, and 10. If they are told that there is a term, if there is no voluntary unification, the system and boundaries offered by the State are proposed, and they have a choice: either to make a decision on their own, or to make the distribution offered by the State, it will speed up the process in many communities much faster. I think it's supposed to be a complex of measures. We will support the government's initiative in Parliament, but it must also be a complex of measures besides this law. I think that's all the interested people, all the factions, whether they're in opposition or whether they're in coalition. And I'm sure we can do that and prepare this package. From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich. Saveka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u26	Dear friends, today we have adopted the most important law for our state -- the law concerning the stability and future of our country. This law, this budget is a budget that allows us to do what is necessary for our state. In itself, the 5 percent that are allocated to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, especially the national security and defence of Ukraine, we understand, it's not enough because the war is coming. And this war is going on with every day more and more, it's going not just to our state, it's going to Europe. Ukraine. to Europe and our country of Ukraine. That is why I would like to address you, Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, especially with regard to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the nutrition of a special warehouse and the name of a category such as an officer's warehouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u27	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u28	Which, for the time being, we're going to talk about, at the point of permanent deployment, there's no right to eat under the current legislation. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that the officers of our country's elite are worthy of speaking to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u29	Thank you. I understand it was a performance, not a question. And that's why, colleagues, I give the next word for the speech. The government's backing it up. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich of the will of the people. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u30	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I am addressing not as a national deputy today, but I am turning from the entire community of the Luhansk region, not just Shahov, but actually turning to the hundreds of thousands of people who are suffering today from a gang of deputies who are sitting in the Severerodonec City Council, who are robbing the city of all political forces of the Opposition Block, the Radical Party, the BUT, the BPT, who have three times captured power, killed the deputy of our colleague, the civil actor of Samarski. And today the situation is very important. Sixty criminal conducts were violated in a year, none investigated. The last three days, literally three days ago, the MPs decided to regain power -- it didn't work. I'm asking you to give an assignment today to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because the D.A. has failed this task, and put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u32	Put these things under control. It's bringing the city to collapse. And they wanted to do and write on the Kabmin even something that could freeze the whole city. That's nice of you to intervene. Governor Phil was put on literally. They wanted to stop the crash completely, and the mayor intervened, replaced the head of the strike, this company, and started the heat, let alone in time, but started. So please, all things that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u33	This address, the government confirms that they have taken into account your request. And I now give the floor to the self-help question of Wojcietsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u34	Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. I have a question for Mr. Groysman and Mrs. Oksana Markarov about "hot loans." Even in the early autumn, Vladimir Borisovich, you promised to allocate an additional 100 million dollars to the hot loans program from the unlaunched energy efficiency fund. To understand, it's small money, but for thousands of families in Ukraine, it's a real opportunity to reduce the cost of utilities in their pay. Today, you and I have November 23rd, and by November 30th, the OSBB is due to submit appropriate documents to demonstrate the performance of the projects they've started. The money, from what we understand, has not yet been allocated. And I have a very simple question: when are they going to be selected? That's the first greeting. And the second question is about the energy efficiency fund. When it finally works, can you please say clearly, when you expect Ukrainians and OSBBs, that this fund will be fully operational next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u35	Thank you. Who Will Answer? Prime Minister. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. On November 21, the Ministry of Finance released all the funding documents, and as I promised that in November, this issue of additional funding would be resolved, by December 1, it would be definitely resolved, there is no doubt. As for the State Energy Efficiency Fund, you know there's a fairly transparent and time-consuming procedure for creating, creating the Supervisory Board, choosing the Supervisory Board, which has recently been. The procedure shall be followed. And we expect the State Energy Efficiency Fund to work until the second quarter. We actually see a huge potential in doing this fund, because we're going to have, well, I think we're going to be able to accumulate with international partners local resources. It's going to be, including local budgets, it's going to be, there's going to be, like, 10 billion and more that will be available for energy efficiency measures for the whole country. So from the following year it will be a completely different tool, more effective. Is there anything to add, Hennady Grigorovitch? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u37	I would like to report that the law, the law adopted by the Supreme Council on the Energy Efficiency Fund itself, is part of the implementation of the 27 directive. The issue of transparency and the sustainability of all procedures is very important to us. The Independent Representatives Competition in the Supervisory Board is now over. This became one representative from Poland, yes, and became our Julia Sabotyuk, who was involved. The head of OSBB has a very long time, which has an energy efficiency centre, a great deal of experience in implementing such projects. We are now also directing two representatives to the Supervisory Board by the government, and most importantly, we are waiting for a representative from the European Union. And we're also about to finish preparations, and basically the second tranche agreement at the Multidonor Fund of 50 million euros for Ukraine to finance projects is actually what we're going to get by the end of the year. And another message. Before the fund works, we're counting on it to be done by the end of the first quarter, we're working on the first 10 pilot projects together with the Multidonor Foundation by the fund and to see how the procedure works and how the project works, and how the OSBB will practically go through that road map that is not simple enough, but it has to be effective enough. And the second question that we also care about is that the Multidonor Fund works with the Energy Efficiency Fund, and it's not in the Ukrainian budget, it's in the account of customers. And so now we've done all the procedures, there's a ready-to-use operating manual that needs to be included in the first quarter. Well, I'd like to ask all the heads of the OSBB not to stop. The cost of the government’s loans for today is still high. We've put the heat on the credits, and by the time the fund starts, the heat credits will be co-financed by the OSB projects. Well, the fund's target client is OSBB, and today a large number of people are preparing for this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u38	So, thank you, colleagues. Questions came to an end from factions and groups. Now, I'm asking you to hold a record of those who want to ask questions from the National MPs. Please hold the recording, 20 minutes from the National MPs, please. Revega Alexander Vasilovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! I speak on behalf of the mothers and the military, the soldiers of the ATO. In the Zitomir region, there is a problem with the allocation of land that is provided under the current legislation by the State Department of Natural History. Just five days ago, I was approached by about 10 mothers and they say they're handing out documents and they're always taking credit, and that's not the limit, that's not the point. I'm asking you to help them get these plots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I'm going to assign a directive to the State Department to consider your appeal in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u41	So, colleagues, for the sake of question, the word is given to Bourbaku Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, this morning the Supreme Council supported the draft budget, which was submitted by the coalition government, and the People's Front also voted in full for it, because it envisions all of our proposals: this and the continuation of the traditions established by the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk in financing national security and defence at 5 percent of gross domestic product, that is to say the continuation of those reforms that were launched in 2014 is also a continuation of decentralization. Please tell us that in the following year, too, the funds provided for the infrastructure subsidy, we support those communities that are united. What will the government do with those areas where executive branch officials oppose unification, where no OTG has been united in any way? And I know that was your initiative in personnel change in these areas. How are we going to continue decentralization in areas of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u43	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. First of all, I would like to thank you once again for supporting the 2019 budget. We actually accepted it or not for the first time on November 23. That's how it would be every day. And I saw that we're actually from the first. Since the first year of office of this Parliament and government, we have approved all budgets for all years. And this is also a sign of stability. No matter what you say, whoever talks, but there's no budget, it's such a cloudy water that you can boil anything you want. And there's a budget, there's a clear figure. These conversations sometimes, when I hear from the rostrum there, it's not like that, and it's not a sissy, I understand it's simple. Well, you know, it's just a chat. And I haven't been able to, we haven't been able to vote on the budget for the second reading, we haven't been able to bring it to Parliament yet, as I can see that some politicians are criticizing it, saying no, it's a bad budget and so on, and so on and so forth. Colleagues, who read it? We haven't brought him to Parliament yet, so you're criticizing him, well, sometimes we hear that. This speaks of irresponsible politics. In fact, the budget is indeed balanced, and I thank the deputies very much for your support in a format like that of the Committee on Budgets. Because "inflated" expenses, which are not income-enhancing, are also an extremely serious problem, but not everyone understands it. That's why the budget is realistic, balanced, and that's a good sign of stability in 2019, even though we have a huge challenge, I'm stressing that once again is the repayment of debts of past periods. It's actually a payment for the mistakes of the past, in large numbers. And when I hear about what they're saying about us getting IMF loans there, and listen, I don't need those loans, we're getting bigger, we can manage ourselves. But when we have to return what we took there, 3, 5, 10, well, not 3, but by 2014, that's a serious challenge. And that's why we have to find opportunities to go to markets, borrow things and so on and so forth. And the budget fully predicted security and defence spending, we've already talked about this, decentralization completely plus 41 billion to local budgets, education, medicine, sport, infrastructure, Ukrainian roads, 55 billion of them, 17 billion on local roads, plus support for the State Regional Development Fund, socio-economic development, support for the OTG. So these are all the directions, some that I call today, that will be supported by this budget, including Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian cinema and many other things. As for the united territorial communities. I went to Parliament and asked the district deputies to give this information to the government, and we're going to ask questions about their release. 99 circuits are now in a country where no united territorial community has yet been established. And in the past or the last cabinet meeting, I've been commissioned to present candidates for these "unrejoicing" heads of the administrations who are unable to make the system effective, which would give people a completely different quality of life. So please make suggestions, we will immediately contact the President to release such leaders. There is a President's understanding of the matter. So thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Vitaly Semenovich was a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u45	Good morning. Kurilo Vitali, 113th constituency, Luganschina. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! In the Luhansk region, the biggest problem is energy and infrastructure. One of these very acute issues is the railway that connects the area, but which has no connection with the railways of Ukraine, because it is cut off from one side of the border with Russia and from the other side of Lugansk. There it is necessary to build a railway to unite it. It's of great military strategic importance, it's of economic importance. It's the supply of coal to Lugansk GRES, it's about 10 elevators that are infecting in fact, it's roads, it's infrastructure. I'm asking you to give me a mandate to actively address the issue of mini-infrastructure, to deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u47	It's called the Crucifixion and the Lugansk Military and Civil Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u48	Thank you, Reverend Vitalia Semenovich. I'll have the Minister of Infrastructure work with you on how to solve this infrastructure problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u50	Vladimir Borisovich, good day again. I just wanted to say thank you for the fact that we've been working together pretty well for two years, but I'll come back to one point about the Siecheslavian roads. We have two roads I've been talking to you about. This is M-04, the road, essentially, life for the Ukrainian Army, because this is the way ammunition goes. And this is exactly where the border of the Dnipropetrov region begins and practically to the city of Dnipra. There's no road cover. And another road is T 0419 and T 0434. For the western part of the Dnipropetrov region, this is the road of life, this is the road to a maternity home in the city of Curve Rig, where all births are taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u51	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u52	Unfortunately, I would like to read out the answer of the official minister of infrastructure. He wrote to me (there were 10 receipts): "I'm informing you that Kryvtodor will consider the inclusion issue mentioned in your request on the road to production plans." You know, if we wait, well, a lot of residents of Fifth Street, Sofians will just lose their lives because of this road. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u53	Who Will Answer? Omelian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u54	Minister of Infrastructure Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u55	Thank you. The distinguished national MPs, as you know, the Dniprovska ChiSiceslav region actually shows one of the best road construction indicators in Ukraine. And I'm glad that not only was it completed this year, Dnipro Zaporozhye, but a highway is being built that connects Dnipro to Kiev. As for these roads that you've pointed out, yes, they're really in the plans for the following year. Thanks to your successful vote this morning, we will try to make the most of them. As for roads, so-called "heavy". We're asking for the support of the hall to put these roads on the balance sheet, because in fact there's no resources in the Kreevtodor to repair them. We're supposed to be honest about this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u56	You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u57	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Volodymyr Borisovich, well, I represent agricultural areas, and I'll tell you how they've been criticized in this hall, whatever the opponents say, I'll tell you that the farm program works and the money they put in the budget works. Going back to keeping cows, having calves, building farms -- that's good. But I want to mention the question not to commend the government, but I want to say that it's the end of the year and there's a month and not many days left, but at the same time, I would like to see that the Ministry's Office, the Ministry's office, has checked to get the money for the equipment of the animal farms, so that everything can be done so that everyone can get this year -- and this will be the hope of our budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivan, for your question. In fact, we just started these programs: cow support, dairy support, farm construction -- this is the year we started. So this is a process that is needed when all procedures are improved and the program is fully operational. That's how we started. We started out like this "Available drugs," same thing, we just started them -- everybody here, well, our opponents were trying to say, "This isn't working, this isn't working," and so on. Everyone's already quiet because the program actually started working and taking turns. That's how it's gonna be. So both support for farm construction, and support for agriculture for both mineral fertilizers and seed materials, and for animal production, and the same support, support for the production of Ukrainian agriculture and so on, and so on. It's all going to work. All that this year is going to be done across the spectrum is going to be funded by 100%. We don't see any threats here. And in the budget that we approved with you for 2019, all of these programs have been continued. So I hope that the coverage will be much wider. Now almost 6,000 agro-industries have received such systemic support. Of these, 2,850, roughly, are farm enterprises. And we already have about 104 thousand individual farms that also receive animal support. So this is also a very important priority for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u59	Thank you. DraukSergey gives the floor to the question of Mikoli Fedoruk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, honourable members of the government, I'm sure I won't be mistaken if I say that there hasn't been any accepted State or Local Budget for the entire history and independent Ukraine that would please everyone. So today's budget, he. He fully agrees with the fact that he has demonstrated both stability and the development of our state. And I have not a question, but a proposal, Andrew Volodymyrovich, to you and to the government: considering that the 7th of December, the next plenary week, we have a Local Self-Government Day, a proposal: to make one of the days of this plenary week Local Self-Government Day, and to consider draft laws for administrations, basics, and many others to consider, including perhaps to pass on the functions of approving plans for unification, promising plans for a government without surplus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u61	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u62	So that no more "brakes" can stop at the local level. We have some areas that haven't looked at or approved a forward-looking plan at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u63	It was nice to say, "to get past brake brakes," that's the right thing to do. Dear Mikolo Trochymovich, I fully support your idea. And we're going to ask the Honourable Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a block of local self-government. Now that we've actually adopted the budget, we can pay more attention to such systemic significant laws, and if your will is supported by the Head of Parliament, I think we can, at the next plenary week, really define a period where we can consider issues of decentralization, local self-government, support these initiatives and continue and improve reforms. By means of plans, if this is passed on to the government, then we will avoid the influence of not professional, but simply or political, or foolish, influence on the reform of local self-government by stopping it. Because when. I don't understand when people have decided to unite, when people have decided to create a capable community, when they have a budget of three or four times, and then they're sitting some official in some area, and when they realize that it's under his chair, something starts to shake, it starts to block it all out. I believe that we must protect people who have the right to unite and to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u64	Thank you. ŠurmaIgor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u65	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I'm talking to Vladimir Borisovich. Volodymyr Borisovich, in view of the fact that there is insider information that Uljana Suprun wants to join the ranks of the Opposition Block, I'm not going to kill you today, I'm going to ask you a question in fact. She and I will clear up our questions on a polytrade. And I'll give you that information, please. During our exit session in Kharkivsk, we faced this situation. They serve people of temporary displaced persons and those living in controlled territories. The extra funds for Kharkishte are not being allocated, and all the treatments are going on at the expense of, let's say, the residents of Kharkishte. Special stress falls to the perinatal center, where women are born with complications, with pathology -- it's very expensive stuff. The compensation they get is 30 million, and it's estimated to be about 170 to 180 million. Whether someone controls this situation and will help the Kharkiv region financially in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u66	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u67	For this help to be complete and undiminished. For example, from 2.5 thousand births to about 300 births, these are people who are headed from the controlled Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk. In addition, at circuit, city, district level, they receive unreserved help. Tell me, please, how will the government help Harkish out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. We're going to invite additional information to Kharkiv ODA to understand the actual calculations, because in fact the formulas that are implemented throughout the country are sufficient. But given that there are displaced persons, you just have to look at it and count it more accurately. The more we have the base, the 18th year base. Thank you for asking. I'm on it. We'll work with the Kharkiv ODA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u69	Thank you. Colleagues, and actually now the last question. If it gets there and there's still time, I'll give it to the next one. But. If there is a short question, a brief answer may be available. Please, Dechtirczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u70	Alexander Dechtyarchuk, 154th Dubensk constituency. Volodymyr Borisovich, in your time, you had a very nice initiative to step up the responsibility on the roads for loading both the carrier and the owner of the cargo. Unfortunately, this initiative was not implemented. And we've got some roads in practice, but here's what I've got to say from the Demidian united community, the Mlinov community, is that roads are being massively destroyed, and we've got sugar barrels now and trucks loaded 1.5-2 times. One builds and the other destroys. I need your intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Thank you for asking. The initiative, indeed, is and is nowhere to be found. The only thing we lack is the power of the government to adopt a normative document, and we will need the support of Parliament. That's why. And we expect to have an infrastructure day in Parliament, too, before New Year's, and we would be able to look into that, too. So I now entrust the Minister of Infrastructure with preparing a short draft law to implement this initiative. If it's your support, we'll be happy to do it now before the next heavy-duty season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u72	Yeah, there's only one minute left, so I'm going to pass on the final, final question. Drozdik Alexander Valentinovich is passing it on to Kryvosh. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u73	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich, members of the government! Just a quick question. Vladimir Borisovich, you were in my hometown, in Boguslav, and I wanted to thank you again for this. But we've had this situation, and I've already asked you this question, the Boguslav district, near the Kagarlit district: local authorities are raising the tariff on heat. One of the reasons why they do this is because people go after a grant, we pay a subsidy from the budget, this subsidy goes just to the local officials in the pocket. In doing so, they use alternative combustion media, and the gas is hardly used. So I have a big request as much as I can, say, I'll do, I'll do, I'll do, I'll do, I'll do, I'll do, I'll do, but right now I'd like this to be a reference: is it possible for these two areas to be tested for the legality of setting and raising tariffs. In Kagarlik, 23 percent or 25 percent; in Boguslav, 5.8 percent Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. In fact, we all realize that the price of gas is very important. But it's also very important and the technology of heat production, loss, whether or not they are normative, supernormal, and in general the whole process of energy efficiency. Why do I sometimes react so abruptly when fountains are built to make people love their eyes, and, there, the question of warming houses, building new boilers, alternative boilers, building individual heat points, so that people can be comfortable and warm, not like when we have heat in the street, and when we have heat in the streets, and when it's cold in the street, the other way around. So I would like to emphasize that the responsibility of the local authorities here is very high, no matter what you say today. Because the boilers belong to the local authorities, the investments they can direct there are local authorities, not state authorities. We can only help through the State Fund for Regional Development, for example, if some city community or just the community wants to upgrade, we can use the DFRD mechanism to support this initiative, but the initiative should be theirs. And so we figured that the maximum price that could go up is 16 percent. But we know there's a higher increase: 25, 30 percent. And it's just impossible to let that happen because it's an inadequate rise, and we understand that. So after what you said to the communities, I'm definitely going to go to the National Commission for Regulatory of the Electricity and Utilities Market to help us conduct this test. If necessary, we will also launch the State Service. We're going to fix this as your request, and it's going to be your request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u75	So, colleagues, the time for questions from the national MPs is running out. I want to thank the government, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir BorisovichGroysman for the fruitful and important discussion. Colleagues, you're preparing a day of local self-government laws that might have support in the hall, no problem setting them up next week. The main thing is to have discussions with all the factions and to have voices that support them. So, colleagues, pay attention! We now have to consider the Supreme Council's decision to annul the Supreme Council's decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come back. Yesterday, a decision was taken to annul the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that this Order is immediately being considered from the moment of registration, and its authors are a number of national deputies. And I think I'd like to invite you first to Illenk Andry as one of the team's authors, and then I'm the director of the regulatory committee. And, colleagues, I hope we'll have a quick, effective look at it. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u76	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! We, the representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, have issued a decree, a draft decree of 22.11.2018 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the Supreme Council Decision of 22.11.2018 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Ukraine Budget Code (registration No. 9084) from 17.09. This Regulation shall enter We believe that yesterday's situation in Parliament was another example of a systemic breach of the rules. And if we don't even speak in the essence of these decisions, which are absolutely oligarchic in our base, and we're taking, not in the interests of the Ukrainian people, but in the interest of the oligarchy, we can even see in form the numerous violations that have taken place, starting with the mass total buttonage that was in the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday, no longer hidden, not without any indication of any shyness or attempt to hide it. And this, unfortunately, has just crossed all the lines, what happened to the non-personal vote yesterday. And I remind you that there is even a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, on the basis of a non-personal vote of deputies, recognizes specific decisions as illegal and then repeals these laws by the Constitutional Court. There have also been numerous other violations. In accordance with article 117, part 1, of the Rules, a bill prepared for the second or second reading, the conclusions of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be submitted to the National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of the plenary consideration of the bill. In violating the requirements of part one of article 117 of the Rules, the comparative table of the bill for second reading was made available not 10 days before the day of consideration, but immediately before the beginning of the discussion, so it was not possible even to get to know and have a thorough discussion among the two issues for each Ukrainian, since this applies to all Ukrainians. So I call on the Supreme Council, although it certainly sounds funny right now, because we actually see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u77	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u78	But I urge you to press the pros button to show our position that we can't violate the Rules, we can't make a decision by clicking on the button, and most importantly, these decisions have to be not just for the "gallons" that are to be welcomed and to be happy, and these decisions have to be really in the interests of the Ukrainians, not the oligarchic system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u79	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organizations of Work of the Supreme Council, Phinehas Phinehas, Phinehas, Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, at the Committee's meeting today, the Committee reviewed the statements made by the People's Deputies of Levechenka, Illenko, other people's deputies (a total of 5 signatures) to the Head of the Supreme Council on the elimination of the requirements of the Rules adopted during the adoption of the Supreme Council's decision on Bill 9084 amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, and introduced the relevant draft Registration Order 9084-P. And according to article 48, part 8, of the Rules, he concluded that the argument of the authors of the draft decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the whole draft law was the unanimity of the votes of the national deputies of Ukraine, i.e. the reference to 47 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and the violation of the deadlines for the provision of material to national deputies (this is article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules). During his speeches on amendments 2nd, 6th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 22nd drew the attention of the chairman of the plenary during the consideration of the bill in violation of article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, the Committee has repeatedly stressed that the issue of the establishment of a non-personal vote must be violated, which was exhausted directly during the consideration of the drafts in the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings in the order of article 47 of the Rules, not after the completion of the consideration of questions or after the conclusion of the plenary session. With regard to the comment by the authors of the legislative initiative on the violation of the requirements of article 117 in part of the time-limits for the provision of materials to the people’s deputies for information, this applies to the preliminary preparation of the bill and to the constituent procedure for the consideration of the bill’s voting is not, therefore, a basis for the application of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee suggests that the Supreme Council decide whether to adopt or reject the draft decree (register number 9084 with the P badge) by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Novak Natalia Vasilovna. Where's Novak? I'll give you my word. I just couldn't think you were capable of breaking the Rules. I couldn't afford that. Please give Chumaku your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u82	Good afternoon, fellow citizens, good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians. Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev Yes, really, I pressed the button instead of Natalia Vasilovna Novak and I just got word because I'm just finished discussing Government Day in the Supreme Council, and as always, I don't have a word on this Supreme Council, because Andrew Volodymyrovich never gives it to me. But I would like to support Mr. Illenko's decision to support all paragraphs of the decree on what he was saying, that the law was adopted with absolute violation of the Rules. The laws of the Supreme Council cannot be adopted completely. Moreover, the laws that set up the state's assets for a year cannot be adopted in this way. They cannot be accepted in a timely manner, they cannot be adopted by night voting and nightly consideration, they cannot be accepted in such a way that, in principle, we see that this is not the State Budget Act, but the Law on lobbying their own interests by certain groups of oligarchic, political, economic groups of their own interests. I wanted to ask the government a question. Unfortunately, Mr. Graceman has gone. The Constitution of Ukraine, article 19, states that all government officials and officials, local authorities, should act within the limits and manner provided for in the Constitution. No article of the Constitution, 106th, that signifies the President's mandate, foresees the possibility of creating any funds at the expense of our money with you. There's no government budget money, there's taxpayers' money! On account of our money with you, we'll bribe the voters in the election. One billion dollars of this budget has been given to the President to bribe voters directly, to bribe voters in the elections. So I am absolutely asking to vote in favour of Mr. Illenck's decision, and even more so with regard to budget cuts, I would like to say to the citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u83	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u84	There's, like, 27-28 deputies in the hall right now. At the time of the registration, I counted that there were 39 deputies in the hall, when the board was lit up by 237 deputies. Under the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not entitled to start a plenary session for the absence of a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u85	Thank you. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This morning the Supreme Council adopted the budget for the following year, and I am convinced that most of the deputies who are politically responsible voted in favour of this budget. Despite the numerous "zores" of opposition, despite the numerous speeches of politicians who used this rostrum only for their political piranhas, the Supreme Council has performed its primary function, and in the following year Ukraine will live with the main financial document. Because this document, supported by the People's Front faction, is 5 percent of the gross domestic product, as initiated by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk, despite the very difficult economic situation of the country in 2014-2015, this money is being sent to national security and defence, despite all the money being sent to the continuation of reforms, to the National Police, to raise the salaries of our Armed Forces of Ukraine, our troops in the East defending our borders. Even though the opposition is criticizing this budget, it will be next year. But you've forgotten, especially with regard to the previous speaker that next year's election, and in this budget there's also money for the holding and presidential elections where you want to participate, and parliamentary where you're going to participate. It's a democracy. You didn't vote for that. And here you're criticizing him. So the People's Front faction won't vote in favour of this bill because it's very technical to block the signing of this very important financial document, because yesterday we, together, were able to reverse the threat of default in Ukraine, as was done by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk in 14-15 years. So, dear colleagues, do not make a barrier to signing this very important document. The People's Front faction will not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u87	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u88	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I'm a little bit on the other side. Tell me, are there people in the audience and those who are listening, are we going to Europe at all? Please call me the country of the European Union where the budget is adopted at night. Give me a call, please. That's year after year. You know the first time I said "Glory to God" today? Remember this and note that this is your final budget! By the second year, you will no longer do so! There will be no such coalition, nor will there be any such government. I've come to see the hall today, it's a smile! Well, good people, each of us gets paid. Why is it empty? Because we split up at seven o'clock. And that's insane! When we leave the hall at seven o'clock, we vote "yes" and someone "against" the budget, and at ten o'clock we have to come here on "governance day." Well, it's crazy, isn't it? Do you know what else is abnormal? That's when we vote for the Budget Code, there's people sitting there who, excuse me, make fools of you. They asked you to vote in favour of Bill 6327, and it said, "Final 5 percent." And they, knowing that there is no money in the budget code, put it in manual regulation. And if we hadn't raised it, you would have voted for it. You're being driven by a nose, and you're doing so well. I say again, let's respect ourselves. And what happens to the night vote is, what's changed from the last power? Just as you used to vote at night, so do you! There is no difference between you, so you have no future!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u89	And the closing act is Corchinska Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u90	Praise Jesus Christ! I propose to support the determination of our patriotic deputies in relation to us being a warring country. It can't be that in a war-torn country, 5 percent of what we're told is that it's like a defense complex, really a defense complex of only two and a half. Ten billion dollars did not leave the army! 10 billion dollars is the absence of an upgrade to the technical supply of the front! Ten billion dollars was given to the law enforcement agencies, but they didn't give us an army! It can't be like that! I remind you that our country is not a police country. Our country is a war country. And let us today be the 10 deputies who vote in favour of this decree, it is good that there are MPs in this room who do not betray God or Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, before the vote, I would like to say that it was very important to us today and to gather together, and so that we can consider this decision that was registered yesterday, so that we can sign up the Budget Code, colleagues, and this is a continuous process of adoption of the budget. I want to remind you, someone rightly pointed out, the adoption of the budget, not January 31st, but November 23rd, not December 31st, but November 23rd, by colleagues, which allows everyone to balance the budget. Indeed, this is a complex process all the time, because this is a continuous process of adoption of the budget. And by the way, I want to thank all the members of the committee right now, and I want to make it clear to them that they were addressing me, the members of the budget committee, and I want to remind them once again that we have adopted the National Budget for 2019 in accordance with the Committee's decision on budget issues, taking into account agreed and balanced with the government, the proposals of the National Deputies. Therefore, I ask the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, to draw up an appropriate law. We called the revisions and actually in the editorial, the one the committee proposed, and that was actually compromise and understanding in the hall. I'm asking the committee to start preparing it for signature. Now we have to vote in favour of this decree, but before that, I want to consult with you, colleagues. I propose that today, at 3 p.m., there will be a meeting dedicated to honoring the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, today at 12 p.m., to conclude our meeting so that the technical services will be able to prepare a conference room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll read the questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I have this proposal, if it's not supported in the room, if it's not supported, if we're not supported, we're going to read queries, they're going to be speaking, the only thing that's going on is, without a break, on a continuous basis: half an hour -- questions, an hour -- statements. Without a break, it will be, there, up to, respectively, the first hour. That's how you all get along, isn't it? Yes, we all do. And so, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22.11.18 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (number 9084-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please provide a personal vote. [[11:34:10]] Z-11. 9084-P is rejected. The draft decree, my colleagues, has been rejected, this allows us to prepare a draft regulation to be signed to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code. And, colleagues, I'll propose now. So this is a decision you make, here by general agreement: can we, first, an hour of speeches and then half an hour of queries? Can we do that, too? To make a statement now, ask later, because as long as there are questions, they'll just all go away. So, colleagues, now, pay attention! – now an hour to speak from the national deputies and then half an hour to read the requests as provided by the Rules. Anyone who intends to take part in the speeches by the national MPs, please record. Please sign up. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u92	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. A few minutes ago, I made a decision to change the results of the voting under the Budget Code. And my remarks about the fact that there are no people in the room, that the government is evil, has caused a violent reaction from those fellow MPs who are now among the majority. You know, you can make noise, you can say anything you want, you can show that there are no people in our ranks today, and it's only natural that there are no people. There is no civilized state in the world when the government budget, documents that help to deal with it, implement it next year, the Budget Code and the Tax Code are adopted at night. Did you see what happened yesterday? Remember, four years ago, when you were talking about old power, it's so different. And yesterday was a knock-on! And that's what happens next to you. You're laughing, you're not saying anything. It's all fixed in the video. Where is your conscience, where are your screams?Oh, my God! Be consistent. And I'm telling you again. What happened yesterday is, to the best of luck, and the great hope is that this is the last budget that this government is making and that you are voting for. And when my colleague says to me on the side, what a great achievement it's not December 30 and December 31. What difference does it make? What difference does it make when they were sitting in the hall, napping until the very morning. Well, look, well, someone's conscience has to say, you know, that's what happened, unprofessionally prepared were the documents. You know why it's unprofessional? Because if they were professional, they wouldn't have had a debate yesterday, they wouldn't have taken a vote ten times, they wouldn't have humiliated the status of the Head of the Supreme Council, who doesn't know what to do with you, with those who put him here, in that chair. You're vilifying him and the status of the Supreme Council! And this says that this budget was unqualified and prepared under the order of the International Monetary Fund, and it will have to be implemented. And when we're talking about what, the trades that took place at the time that led to the revolution and people died, how is that all of this today really different from the past? You know, like they used to say, in the next language, "You're going the right way, comrades!" And you will come there on your own, as you will do. We've turned into a pyar, we've turned everything into a show. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. What you saw was happening tonight, and what is there is evidence that the Supreme Council has exhausted itself and that nothing good is expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u93	Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! He was speaking today and, in principle, said that yesterday, this morning, is the story of our future state. Because from this point on, yesterday we passed all the laws that we're going to need, in the future, to our country, to the people of Ukraine. As far as unity with Europe is concerned, this is a law that allows the Moscow hordes to be hit with one national front. As for these actions that were taking place in the hall. Yes, the 2019 budget wanted more, more for each of us to be more pleasant, and besides, to make people feel more comfortable, more secure, more secure. But we know one thing that goes to war, and all the percentages given in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 5 percent of the gross domestic product, yes, it's a mess, but they're getting more and more every year. And during this period, Ukraine's Armed Forces became a more powerful, stronger army, which ranks in Europe in a dozen of the armed armies themselves, the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We should know that, we should be proud of it. But when words from this rostrum were heard and sounded at the address of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, some deputies dared to rise. So we need to know, the great Ukrainians that, starting with this room, are the ones who think they're living the history of communism, living the ideas that were promoted before 2014, and, above all, living with an idea about the Moscow horde. We need to know, we need to be ready. We must fight for our freedom, for our future for our children. That's why we're MPs, I'm addressing you, high-ranking colleagues, this is our job. And I would like, just as our warriors on the front, every day, 24 hours a day, protecting us, the borders of our Ukraine from the Moscow invasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u95	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u96	So we should work here for the benefit of our country of Ukraine. Yeah, it's hard. But we need to know one thing that we do what our nation needs. Praise the Ukrainian soldiers! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u97	Colleagues, now Dechtirczuk, and Sverk, yes, pass on the word for the performance of Sporish, and that's six minutes. And then, Mr. Victor, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u98	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, I wanted everyone to speak. As they say, we're small, but we're in calves. But at the same time, we can express our opinion to our Ukrainian people today, to our electorate from this rostrum, and that is good. And, at the same time, we need to understand the chairman, Andrija Volodymyrovich, because, in fact, preparations today should be for the day of the famine. And we know very well that we should all bow our heads because we know all of these repressions that have taken place with our Ukrainian people. That's why I think we're gonna go meet the speaker and do everything we can to get the hall free and get him ready. But that's not what I was going to say. We accepted the budget with you. We've accepted the budget, and yet I would like to address all of us in the hall who is today: Now, about 26 budgets, was it enough for everyone to be satisfied with one budget, or was the Ukrainian people satisfied with one budget? Of course not. And whatever this budget is, and it's not bad for today, it came out of what we have. And no matter how much the opposition criticizes them, no matter what they say, this budget cannot be perfect, and no budget can be like that. But at the same time, we have to have what mother is, and thank God that he is, and thank God that the budget that will receive the money, and thank God that we have raised the wages of our soldiers who protect us in the East -- it's over 10,000, because it's really enough to protect us for 7,000. And thank God for raising our wages, and that's also good, because raising wages is the defense of our country, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. I've been asking the government today, what the government program does, and whoever doesn't speak from this room, agriculture today receives subsidies, agriculture today receives cow support, the population receives cow support costs, but they get those who haven't just gone out of their way to apply, to submit papers to make it possible to do so. That's it. But why are we being cautious today? Of course, many agricultural enterprises today are building in connection with the state’s subsidies, farm construction, new equipment, and the purchase of new agricultural equipment. And I'd really like this return to be. We heard Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman today, he promised, and from this rostrum, I want to assure all our farmers of agriculture. I'm not talking about big oligarchs today, I'm not talking about big farms today, I'm talking about medium-sized farms, middle-farm farming enterprises, which would be really good if they didn't cheat us with you, and we'll get everything: both for farm construction, and for capital repairs, and for animal farm equipment, and for this program 100 percent. If it works 100 percent, there will be hope for some agriculture in 2019. We will have hope. We'll know that the hope that this budget, which was adopted in 2019, will also help agriculture. And I also wanted to pay attention to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because I got from my district, Vinnitsky district, you know. The limestone, I received an e-mail message that the brutally beaten Nightingale of Elijah of the limestone had just beaten him insolently. He's really an activist in limestone. And unfortunately, he said, from his statement that no investigation had yet been carried out. Of course, I'll write a letter to both the Attorney General and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'd like the Ministry of Internal Affairs to do everything possible to make this investigation proven to be a human being, if they have their opinions, so that they don't suffer from the hands of any bandits. And it's repeatedly these attacks on our activists, and we know very well. And from this rostrum, I want to state that you could take control of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to investigate the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Chumak Viktor Vasilovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u100	Good day again, dear fellows. Once again, dear Ukrainians. Victor Chumak, 214 district, city of Kiev. Yesterday, Parliament made some very important decisions. I've already talked about the budget decision, and my evaluation of the budget law is also in the previous speech. Yesterday, Parliament adopted changes to the Constitution in its first reading on establishing a course for Euro-integration and on full membership or participation by Ukraine in NATO. You know, I've been working in executive structures since 2000, and I've been preparing targeted cooperation programmes between Ukraine and NATO, plans of action between Ukraine and NATO, and therefore I'm absolutely pleased that we have 311 parliamentarians who have their political position to participate in Ukraine's European and Euro-Atlantic structures. But, you know, I'm afraid of something else. What is Ukraine's membership in NATO or in the European Union? Well, first of all, it shouldn't start with lies, hypocrisy and wickedness. The trick is, right here in the empty hall, Parliament is making any decisions, that's evil. In no European Parliament will you see such a thing when the empty Parliament speaks of something and makes a decision according to the fact that it could virtually not start its work in such a composition. That's not how they go to Europe. It's different. If we look at the Plan of Action "Ukraine is NATO" and the goals that are set out there in internal politics, we'll see that the first objective is to strengthen democratic and electoral institutions. I want to go back again, in 2014, the European Ukraine Coalition of Deputies promised citizens to change electoral legislation. To date, no steps have been taken. That election code, which was accidentally adopted in the first reading, is now totally "stopping." Without the adoption of a normal electoral law, we will again have the same deeply depressed and unprofessional parliament that it is. A point to others for democratic purposes. The plan of action for Ukraine's NATO membership is to strengthen the authority and independence of the judiciary. You can write stories and novels about this, because 28 judges who have not passed the City Council of Virtue on their corrupt assets, their corruption risks and so forth, are appointed by the Supreme Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges to the judges of the Supreme Court. At the same time, the only investigating judge who went to the anti-corruption court, Larissa Golnik, who discovered corruption in court -- in Poltava District, City Courts -- and in Poltav City Council, on formal grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u101	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u102	Formal signs are not allowed in court. I want to finish another one. On September 6th, when the President delivered his message, I handed him a letter of 18 questions that the President should answer to to the Ukrainian Parliament because it was signed by 40 parliamentarians. So far there's no answer from the President. We're waiting, Mr. President, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u103	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u104	Good afternoon! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I think there's been an absolute disgrace and disdain for the Ukrainian Parliament, which voted in favour of the draft State Budget at night. One thing is the first year we became deputies, the second thing is now. Then it was the end of the year and it was necessary to enter the new year with the State Budget Act, and now it was November. What prevented the following week, next Tuesday, to gather and vote so that experts could see the whole public? What prevented us today, on Friday, from getting together and voting? Look at this disgrace. Well, people are looking at how many people are in the hall. Why didn't you stop work last night at 6:00 p.m., 10:00 p.m., and come in, and iron discipline? You saw the iconology yesterday, and everything, and you saw people sitting and working. With this iron discipline that they wouldn't come to work on Friday, we're not just signing up in our own country, we're signing up for the whole world, for all of Europe, there's no guarantee that Friday there's gonna be a job in this iron discipline. So we have to keep everyone at night to vote. They're laughing at us in the world! This undermines trust in our nation. These are anti-government actions. And so, of course, this is a real disgrace. I did not vote in favour of this draft State Budget and another motorist – Pavel Kishkar did not vote in favour of it either. Including not counting the huge amount of initiatives needed both for our economic development and for the protection of our cultural space, and for the protection of our military space and military victory. Look at how the 5% that are allocated to security and defence, the legislation is not being implemented again, and the 3% that are actually going to go to the army are not going to go, the other one inside the distribution is the army followed up on this issue. Look at what happens when the Export Credit Agency doesn't have funding. Two years before the bill is implemented. When Naaviaprom, my "704 million dollars" amendment is out of the question. When at the Music Academy of Lysenk 38 million, at the National Academy of Architecture - 70 million, at Karpenka Karago, at the National Music Academy of Tchaikovsky, the National Community of Choreography - 2.9 million; the Zankovetskie Theatre, which was promised 40 million for reconstruction; the National Museum of Art of Ukraine. Look, the government is repairing itself, changing the kachels, changing the blocks in front of its entrances, inside the white clock. 200 meters down the National Art Museum, you come and see. So there's stairs, windows are wooden, holes, roof is broken -- and we don't have the money for that. To raise the pay of teachers, to the Chernobyls, to secondary technical education. Dozens of amendments that could be completely taken into account are not included and there is no social debate process. I have a feeling that the Supreme Council is being destroyed as an institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u105	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u106	As a higher body of the state. Look, we're filing for members of the Party of Regions and all those who promised to vote off the inviolability of two factions of the majority? One faction gives 40 votes, the other gives 35 votes. Ipotim: Attorney-General, good for you, Supreme Council, not good for you. Next to Siecheslavina, according to my family. I mean, for me. The faction one claims: language, faith, army -- only for the day-old patriots is Siceslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u107	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Jehora Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u108	I think it's very important that people understand what's going on in this room day and night, as their money was distributed yesterday -- over 1 million 100 billion dollars of taxpayer money. Most symbolic of all is what happened after the vote of the representatives of the block of Peter Poshenko, the People's Front, the fragments of the Party of Regions, which are now in different terms, which have been approved by the State Budget Act 2019, is one of the expenses that gives 1 billion dollars to the President of Ukraine in his personal fund. We have to go to Europe, we have to create a country where every thousand dollars of donations to each candidate's electoral fund is voluntary, is transparent, is of clear origin. We have to create a state where any bribery, any abuse of election rules, has to be punishable by imprisonment, so that no one has the will or the possibility. Instead, it's perfectly legal for the President, who is to be the guarantor of the Constitution, to get 1 billion dollars in "tips" to give, open, cut ribbons in the electoral months on his behalf. Most of all, people are less aware of this. The same kind of money for taxes, and the actual bribe of the poor, was paid by dozens of people's deputies through the so-called Regional Development Fund. When they're with you for our money, for taxpayers' money to brag that we've built the road, we've opened the site, we, we, we. It's actually taken from people. It's taken from those who want to get a warm loan and make their house energy independent and reduce their heating costs to gas. Taken from those who really need money to raise a child, who really need money because they have special needs. All this money will burn, the taxpayer's money will burn in the pre-election gift kingdom. I think that's the most important thing, and yesterday I also showed day and night that when people watch it, when people understand it, we can stop it. And thank God that a number of other ideas were thrown out yesterday that were against the interests of society against the interests of all citizens. We don't let ourselves be fooled, we work on it, and we kick out the crooks!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u109	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u110	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Radehovščina, and Kamyaneckina. Once again, I want to address the Radehov district community, and on December 23, there will be an election of the territorial communities, and Radehivska will be the territorial community and Lopatinska. As I read on the Internet, for example, I see candidates for the heads of the OTG and the deputy corps registering. Once again, I want to call on the people who will take part in the elections, analyze each candidate, analyze what they have done for the development of the community already, their way of life to analyze and choose the most worthy ones. And I also want to address the representatives of the authorities of the Bus district. Literally on Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amended the outlook for the able-bodied territorial communities of the Bouquet region. This is planned by the Buska territorial community, Krastenska and the village of Olesko. Also not to delay this process, but to start the process of unifying the territorial communities, and to start the election process. And it is appropriate to allow citizens to choose the leaders who will take care of these territorial communities, knowing that this will enable larger communities to come into these territorial communities, which in turn will be geared towards the development of these communities, to the infrastructure of these communities. And the inhabitants really need to get this because they are doing their best to get their areas, their settlements, to get that kind of financial assistance. Once again, I urge the leadership of the Bus region not to delay the election process in OTG. And the people of the Radehiv region will reexamine those candidates who are going to lead the OTG and the MPs and make the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u111	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u112	Volodymyr Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, those who stayed in the hall. And now I'm talking to those who are looking at us. At the beginning of December, we will observe memorable dates: both the Day of the Armed Forces and the Day of Local Self - Rule. But in addition, we're going to honor the people who did an extremely big job at the time -- participated in the elimination of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, which now has the honorary status of liquidators. And this is about the state fulfilling its obligations under the support of citizens affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. I remind you, this is still a pretty large number of people today, about 2 million people who have one or the other who have the disease, who live. Or live in polluted areas, children with diseases, and so forth. An extremely large number of people who need attention and support from the State. Unfortunately, the budget we adopted yesterday, compared to past years, has virtually failed to take into account the issue of increasing funding for these targeted programmes. Regrettably, we failed to agree with the officials that a single line would be the sum that was previously foreseen for the treatment of people with severe diseases, including ionic diseases. Regrettably, there is no solution to today’s issue of raising compensation for the feeding of children who have the status of suffering from an accident at CHAES. I remind you that in the Supreme Council, on the first reading, we were looking at a bill, it got support, and it needs to be brought to the session hall. Also, if we're talking about liquidators specifically, I want to remind you that in the Supreme Council, there have been three drafts on the committees that define the issue of increasing pensions or providing material security for citizens who have the status of liquidators of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. And, of course, it's a very important question. I want to remind you, in July, there was a presidential decree that determined that by the end of the year, the government would have to adopt a new state programme that would take into account all the issues of support for citizens who have this status as victims of the ČAES accident. So far, there is no program, although we have received a report that the Ukrainian government is working on the development and preparation of such a program. That is why I urge today both Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy Revou to focus on the preparation of this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u113	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u114	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear Ukrainian people, I am addressing you today. And I support today the National Deputy Bondar, who has also asked you to be fully elected in places and district deputies and in communities and cities. Because it was in the city of Severodonetsk that the region of Luhansk began to form a vacchanal. For three years, the city is completely storming, like in the ocean, and people can't understand what's going on. A gang in the '90s, a bloody gang that entered the MP Corps through various political powers, via the OBT, through the BET, through the BPT, and today, by covering up the active party authorities, are causing turmoil and robbing the city, too, the RPL. In a situation just a year ago, two members of the Radical Party, who were city heads, practically looted 160 million dollars in the city of Severodonetsk. Criminal conduct has been violated. This year, the Opoblak prepared to tear down the heating season completely through TEC and STKE in Severodonetsk. If it wasn't for w.o. Governor Phil, then the city would freeze to death. If it weren't for citizens, the city would be frozen. Next. There's a complete power grab. Three criminal acts have already been violated by the Ukrainian Security Service because the MPs filmed Merzakov. Only the court restored the mayor of Kazakov, only the normal work began, bringing the city into order, and the MPs took him down again. At this point, when the MPs seized power, Sevierodonetsk was completely robbed, the Ice Palace was stolen, it was deposited in a bank, the entire budget was looted, hundreds of millions of dollars. Today I asked Prime Minister Groysman to take care of it and have the Ministry of Internal Affairs investigate 60 criminal conducts that are in the Luhansk region. And today, secondly, I want to go to the miners. You don't just have to sit in mines that have been in Lysicanskwugill for 32 years now, and you have to go to the Nasalik Ministry today and demand and pay and real justice to your families. And the third. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council today, Andria Parubia: for the next plenary session, to put two draft decrees -- 5247 and 6169 -- to completely launch the city of Severodonetske Council, and the mayor of the city also wrote an application for a way out, and a full reboot. I'm talking to the presbyterians: please take a look at the next election, everyone, and come in completely, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u115	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u116	Don't sit back. You don't have to stay at home and think that power can't be reloaded. You can reload it, I'm sure of it, and we did it completely in Lugansk County in 114 district where I passed through the new political force "Our Land." So I urge every North Korean not to sit at home. I'll be in town tomorrow. Please come to D.C. Engineer, and we'll hold a meeting there. Thank you. Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u117	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a line later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u118	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, especially those who saw on TV last night what was happening in this session hall! You know, it's hard to pick up words, because it was an absolute vachanalia, it was an absolute degradation of parliamentaryism, an absolute oligarchy triumph, an oligarchy conspiracy that took place here. Because we so openly spit on the Rules, so openly violate the basic principles! It was totally, totally untraceable! No one even tried to do it once. To be ashamed even of that fact. There was a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Law of the Rules, a conflict between the knee and the oligarchic norms: someone who had different rents on uranium mines, someone's benefits for his agrarian business there, someone's huge grants, someone's money for districts for elections, presidential funds for billions and so on. And this was all happening yesterday in the Supreme Council Hall when this "bite" went underground and at the same time absolute disregard for basic procedural standards. I remember and I think that in this room, and now, even though the units are sitting here right now, I see there are MPs who were in the last call, and I remember when there was a party of regions and communists, as they were trying to push the decision through their knee. I'll remind you, then, when we were in opposition, blocking the rostrum, we stayed here for a month in the hall to stop buttoning at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we see today that unfortunately, many of the people that we were fighting at the time and putting together positions, they are doing exactly the same thing today and that's unacceptable. I am convinced that this oligarchic conspiracy must be concluded; this degradation of parliamentaryism must be completed. Freedom will continue to protect the interests of Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens, social and national justice, and we will continue to defend our position. We voted against this budget, we voted against these changes to the Tax Code, and we will call on every Ukrainian in the election: and the presidential and parliamentary, which will be next year, to look carefully and compare not only words, but to compare words with actions, with real steps. I hope that then we will be able to have a parliament where, like tonight, it will be impossible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u119	Thank you. Now, please, the People's Deputies of Levechenko and the People's Deputy of Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u120	Lechenko, Freedom. 223 District, city of Kiev. This night, Thursday on Friday, our esteemed TV set. The radio audience, the Ukrainian people, was openly raped, there was a rape of Parliamentarianism, what was left of it, because it was constantly raped here. There was a rape of the whole country, because one of the most important documents is probably a document that is second after the Constitution of Ukraine, the State Budget of Ukraine, a document that states that the whole country lives during the year, a document that says that someone gets salaries, someone gets pensions, important social objects are being built, a country is going to develop, so this document was approved completely illegally, totally illegally on the air, without hiding, essentially rapeing Parliamentarianism and working exclusively on their "contracts". And so, by the way, it was all done at night. Why did they do this at night? At night, they did this primarily so that most Ukrainians would not see the truth, so that most Ukrainians would not see the circus around the amendments to the Tax Code, when for a few hours there, around this rostrum, all the so-called "solutions," sorry for the non-parliamentary word, and otherwise not call it, and they would trade with each other: you made this amendment for me, you gave me a billion there, I'll give you a billion there, come on. When I personally heard the head of the Southern Committee say to one of the deputies, "How many voices do you have? Oh, that's a little something. Well, it's going to be a little bit more, and then I'll give you this correction, and I'll give you this amendment." Yeah? And there were, unfortunately, a lot of these things yesterday. What were the violations of the Rules? No amendments have been made in a few minutes instead of 10 days, voting in a vote when the committee reads the final decision, which is illegal, total taxation, the National Budget did not consider amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which were yet to be considered last time. And these are just a few moments that I've pointed out. And, you know, I'd like to ask you right now whether Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Peru is going to make another violation of the Supreme Council Rules, which, you know, is going to be a stenographer, you could call that a direct crime. Unfortunately, we don't have criminal responsibility for breaking the Rules, I'd like it to be, let's see. He said about 40 minutes ago from the Presidium, from his place, he said to the whole country, and it's in the transcript, recorded in the video, he said that the State Budget of Ukraine is still preparing that he hasn't written a document yet, and he hasn't signed it yet. At the same time, I was in the registration sector and registered a so-called "continuing decree" for the National Budget of Ukraine, that is to say not to allow it to be signed under the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Madam Chairman, please add 20 seconds, please. I registered this restraining order because, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, he has no right to sign two days of any adopted bill, and at this point any national deputy can register a decree with a requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u121	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u122	require that the violation of the Rules be corrected and that the illegal voting be abolished. So, Parubius himself said that the budget bill had not yet been signed, and the law had not been signed. Well, my decision was made. Now let's see if they meet the requirement of the Rules and they're going to put this order to a vote and they're going to discuss whether they're just falsifying.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u123	Thank you. And please, National Deputy Storm. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u124	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. You know, I wanted to talk to my fellow national MPs, but there are 14 of us left. We are now going through a period of such fierce, violent struggle for the president's chair. We are well aware that there will be many truths and lies, there will be many provocative moments, there will be accusations, and there will be various forms of aggression. Today, one of the deputies allowed himself to speak harshly to the Opposition Block. I'd like to remind you that we, the Opposition Block, have been chosen as well as all of you. I consider my dignity lower than the Opposition Block to be the same rudeness. I call on you all to be more tolerant, because our waves here, which, you know, blow the air, are going to detonate in society later, and we're going to have civil opposition. Maybe that's what the enemy wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u125	Thank you. We've finished our speeches at the Miscellaneous, and now we've got questions from the National Deputies. A few questions came up. All requests are only to the government. So now we're going to try to read them. People's Deputies Ask: Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government for the provision of material assistance for the operational treatment of Marchenko Nadia Yuhimovni, residents of the village of Stanishovka in the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds to Semenyuk Viktor Alexanderovich, resident of the village of Weselka Lubarski district, Zitomir district, for the production and installation of the design prosthesis of his daughter. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restructuring of debt from housing services to low-income citizens and the granting of subsidies. Andrija Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Attorney General of Ukraine. SergiaLyvočina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing inflation rates and increasing its social impact. Sergey Melnika, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, to increase the medical subsidy target in the State Budget Project 2019. VadimKrivochatka to the head of Zaporezki District State Administration for the vaccination of wild animals in Zaporzik region in 2018. Michael Bondar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures to ensure a rapid, full and impartial criminal investigation No. 4201315000000068 of 12.03.2013 Michael Bondar to the head of the Public Council at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the payment of premiums to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and the subsequent withdrawal of these funds abroad. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on corruption schemes during tender purchases to a Chinese manufacturer by means of a specialized organization called Kraun Agents, which led to the untimely supply of endothelials to the region. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure the full functioning of the Single Information Database on Internally Moved Persons immediately. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the Recalculation of Pension Insurance. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources, the provision of material assistance. Andrija Lopushanski, acting Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways, heads of the Lviv District State Administration for the restoration of full-fledged training of electric trains that connect the Zakarpatsk and Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, who is responsible for Ukraine’s finance minister for the need to adjust the amount of the educational subsidy for the city of Sambora, in the Lviv region. Andrija Kisselova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the correction of the volume of the reverse grant to the city of Dobropil Donetsk Region in 2018 and 2019. Andrija Kisselova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the cost of a stabilising grant to the city of Dobropil Donetsk Region in 2019. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the process of joining Ukraine to the NATO Centre for Energy Security Best Practice. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to protect the State-guaranteed constitutional right of citizens to receive pensions. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Children's Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts presented in the address of Natalia Kostenko on the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child. Vladislav Buhareva to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the National Budget of Ukraine for the restoration of the local architecture of the Regional School in Labedin Sumsk district. Vladislav Buhareva to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to take into account the funds in the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 for the capital repair of the road of the state importance of Sumi-Romani. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the state of investigation of criminal conduct violated by the abuse of power or official position that has caused serious consequences in connection with the construction and operation of a helicopter site in the city of Canoe of the Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvata) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for measures to protect against the harmful effects of water on Zakarpatta. Vasila Petítovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of a portion of the PAT "Ukrzalzliznica" objects in the city of Rakhov Zakarpatska district. Igor Lapin to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the assignment of military titles. Igor Lapin to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on non-inclusion in the order of the able-bodied territorial communities of the Novobassani Rural United Territorial Society. IgoryaGuza to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on the Consideration of Proposals by the Public Organisations of the Volin Region to the Bills on Rules for Clearing up Cars on European Registration. IgoryaGuza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the need for a forecast in the State budget of 2019 for the continued financing of state energy conservation support for the population and OSBB. Groups of National Deputies (Eutuska, Lucenka and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the inadmissibility of knowingly delaying the term of administrative delinquency with regard to the head of the Leveln government, Mularenko O.V., who according to NAMC, holds third place on the list of top-owners who violate anti-corruption legislation in October 2018. Mr. Mikoli Kadikala to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on illegal actions in the field of state registration by the State Registerer of the local self-government body. Sergey Shahova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the illegal activities of the Director of the South Office of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Oleg Muratov. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the necessary costs for the acquisition of school buses in accordance with the real need in the Kharkiv region. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the repair of public roads in the territory of Kegichovski, Sahnovščinski, Lozovski, Zacepilovsky and Krasnograd regions of the Kharkiv region. GrigoryTimisa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the speedy resolution of the problem of defaulting on gas debts to residents of the Novoseltsky region of the Cherniewice region. Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the provision of information on the status and results of the pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct following the attack on Catherine Gandzük. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the immediate repayment of the debt from the payment of salaries to the medical staff of the 3rd Municipal Dentistry Hospital of Lvova. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Council on the speedy distribution of medical subsidies to pay salaries to medical personnel at the Tetian Central District Hospital in Kiev. VitaliaGudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for preparation for the heating season in Biloczerkowski, Voddarski, Skirski, Stavistenski, Tarostianski, Tetiyiv region of the Kyiv region. MikhaylaDowbenko to head the Kyiv City Public Administration to ensure that investors' rights are respected by the ZC "Shevchenkovsky Quarter". JaroslavaDubnevića to the head of the National Commission, which conducts state regulation in the areas of energy and utilities, heads of the government of the public shareholders association Lvivoblanergo on the electrification of a new neighbourhood of individual construction in the village of Vikota Sambir district of Lviv. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of debt reduction from wages in Ukraine. Victor Vuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the anti-constitutional and illegal claims and proposals made by the head of the central executive body, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on issues of dual citizenship. AndriaShipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of low-security measures to provide digital television. AndriaShipka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of control of coming to Ukraine of humanitarian aid. SergiaLabazuka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of test laboratories. SergiaLabazuka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the underfunding of socio-economic measures to compensate for the protection of the population living next to the Hmělnice AES. Helen Sotnik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the provision of information on the appointment of Prokopchuk Igor Vasilovich as head of Ukraine's Permanent Representation to the International Organizations in Vienna. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Poltavian region with regard to the prevention of raids by farmers, the long-term and ineffective investigation of such cases, as well as the inappropriate response to attempts at illegal possession of their property. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the commission of illegal actions by the management of the T.O. BusinessAgroservis, when adopted to preserve the crops of grain producers in the Mirgograd region of Poltav. AlexiaHoncharenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of official answers regarding the participation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the payment of expenses for the treatment of a uniformed patrol officer, Lieutenant Roman Danilenko, who received cranial trauma and leg fractures while performing his duties, and for the continuation of his service with the authorities of the National Police of Ukraine after the end of his treatment. Sergija Rybalka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the improvement of the financing mechanism of the State Vocational and Technical Institute of Western Dniprova Centre for Vocational and Technical Education of the Dnipropetrov region through the transition to the balance of the local community. IvanaSporice to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the attempted assassination of a citizen of Splitak I.H., a village of the town type of limestone in the Tomaspil district of Winnitsk. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at raising the salaries of academic and scientific staff in higher education and scientific institutions. HanniGopco to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the abolition of the minimum wage for notarial action. Vasilyanicko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Rhineland Region, Head of the Regional Council of the Rhineland Region for State and Regional Programmes for Support and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities of Vision and Hearing. Vasilyanicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plain region for the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on the Military Commissioners of the Plains. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the collective appeal of residents of the famous National Criminal Enforcement Service in Kiev on the development of the National Target Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities. Yurya Miroshnicka to the Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev regarding the violation of the right of access to public information of a citizen named Paly J.M. Igor Kotwiczky is the head of the National Construction and Architecture Inspectorate of Ukraine for violating the construction standards of the Strotechsnab T.O.T. construction site, which led to the catastrophic state of the apartment building in the city of Black Sea Odessa. SergijaVlasenka to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on sources of funding for the placement of the external advertisement of President Peter Prashenka of Ukraine with the slogan "Get from Moscow", with other variations with the title "Armiya. Language. Faith" SergeiVlastenka to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the clarification of the procedure for the submission of a declaration of a person authorized to perform the functions of a state or local self-government to the Central Electoral Commission for the purpose of registering a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Acting Director of the Kyivmisswitter Municipal Enterprise, for the establishment of external energy-saving LED lighting at the Forest Avenue in the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the restoration of asphalt coating near buildings No. 63-67 along the Brovary Avenue in the right district of Kyiv. Mr. Alexander Gehrega and Mr. Andrija Šinkovič are responsible for the responsibility of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine to finance socio-economic measures to compensate the risk of the population living in the area of observation of the Separate Department of Hmělnická AES DP "NAEC "Energoatom". Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič are under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the need for an immediate response to the threatening increase in meningitis in the Hemel region. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of payment of salaries to teachers and health workers. MaximaBurbaka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on checking the quality of road work in Chernivka. Mikhail Golka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the illegal transfer of the property complex of the Holy and Spent Pochai Lavra to the continued use of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the cost of natural gas produced in Ukraine, as well as the price of imported gas from Europe. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the recalculation of the pension for employees, including the earnings paid in Soviet and foreign currency rubles. PaulRizanka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the provision of information on the status of works on construction, reconstruction, capital and current average repairs of road traffic in the Kyiv region as part of an experiment on the financial provision of road development measures for general use during 2017-2018. Anatolya Denisenka to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Director of the State Enterprise Prozorro, Head of the Court of Auditors on the need for systematic review of legal acts and the implementation of a set of measures by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine and DP "Prozoro" to improve the public procurement system. Antonakisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of the roads of general use of the state value T-1608 Bolgrad-Red Army-Arciz-Sarat (Bulgrad-Red Army) and T-1632 CAT New Trojan-Red Army-Basilovka-Camyanka-/M-15/" (in the area of CAT New Trojan-Red Army). Igor Popov to the Head of the Central Election Commission for the Protection of the Election Rights of Ukrainians Working abroad. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of state bodies in the field of national industrial policy. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the operation of the Single Information Database on Internally Moved Persons. Sergija Melnika until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to introduce a corrective coefficient into the formula for the distribution of medical subsidies from the State budget to the local budgets of city satellites of nuclear power stations. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the creation of a state-of-the-art conservation reserve in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the need to ensure that patients with transplanted organs are immunosuppressive. Sergia Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the arson of the vehicle of a member of the Scottish City Council of the Suma District of O.V. Romanowski. Sergia Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to review the possibility of redistributing the excise tax on tobacco products of domestic production. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnick district council, the head of the Hmelnick district administration for the forecasting of funds in the 2019 district budget for the construction of platoons in the populated areas of the Isiaslav district of the Hmelnick district. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnicka District Public Administration on the forecasting of funds in the district budget for 2019 for the completion of the second round of the construction of the Theofipolsky District Cultural House in the Hmelnicki Region. AlexanderBrigins to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the dynamics of Greek production in Ukraine over the past five years. Alexander Brigin, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on providing information on the number of countries with which international social security agreements have been concluded and with which countries are being negotiated to enter into such agreements. Alexander Nechayeva to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the issue of the restoration of violated legal rights in UkraineTushishvili H.V. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine, for an immediate solution to the issue of the execution by the State Treasury of a court decision on the payment of material damage to Podenko. Vladimir Parasyuka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for banning entry into the territory of Ukraine by Russian artist Uzenyuk Aleksy Kostinović. RomanaMatzoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Acting Minister of Finance for the Elimination of Violations of Legislation, Taking urgent measures to respond to the distribution and payment of the statutory grant from the State budget to local budgets to finance socio-economic measures to offset the risk of the population living in the area of observation. RomanaMazoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of retirement allowance for employees of public and municipal institutions of social protection. Victor Vuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill that violates the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on International Contracts in the implementation of the Montreal Protocol. Jury of Wooden to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of order and scale of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas accounting devices for the consumption of natural gas by natural persons. Jurya Derevyanka, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to prevent the termination of the functions of laboratories at the Communion Hospital Center of the City Council and its infirmary, as well as to ensure the right to choose how to take blood from children (from the finger or from the vein). Romana Semimenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of the refusal of a housing grant due to the existence of a debt for housing and utilities. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the State registration of an ambulance that was received as humanitarian aid. Wadima Sidorczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on amendments to the regulations on road traffic and its safety with regard to the continuous fulfilment of the obligation to conduct periodic medical examinations to determine the ability of drivers to drive safely. RuslanaSolvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds from the state and district budgets for the provision of necessary materials and household equipment at the Lelecznka Preschool Centre of the Makarov Bridge of the Kyiv Region. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Vijacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the Shevchenkov District in Kiev State Administration for the proper organization of the work of State registrations. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the objective presentation of historical facts in the manuals for external independent evaluation. AlexanderKorsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to simplify the procedure for decommissioning from the town of Kharkiv's municipal enterprises and for the creation of OSBB. AlexanderKorsha to the Director-General of the Harkovi Heat Company for the restoration of heating in residential buildings on the streets of Heroi's Works in Kharkiv and the restoration of hot water supply in residential buildings on the street of Matyushenko in Kharkiv. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the illegal operation of gas fillings in Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on some of the issues of the construction of a new subway branch in Kiev. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the simplification of the procedure for receiving assistance and their number for the processing of social payments, the cancellation of forms of documents approved by the Council of Ministers of the USSR. Anna Romanova to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the likely tax evasion. Anna Romanov to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine on visa liberalisation. Jurya Bereza to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the sabotage of elections in villages of the city type Cherkaske and Guardia Novomoskov region of Dnipropetrov region by the District Election Commission. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide the Petath region of Dnipropetrovsk with additional school buses. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Zacarpathian district government administration, the head of the Zaporozhye district government administration, the head of the Johno-Frankov district government administration, the head of the Vinnicko district government administration, the head of the Mikolai district government administration, the head of the Odessa district government administration, the head of the Lviv district public administration, the failure to comply with the requirements of law in order to grant status to children who have suffered as a result of military actions and armed conflict. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of government structures against the proliferation in Ukraine of counterfeit children's products, including toys for children. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Vinnitsk Region for the acceleration of the contract procedure for the use of the Funeral Hall of the Police Department of the Kalinj Police Department of the HUNP in the Vinnitsk Region for the purposes of the Funeral District Children's Children's Sports School. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the Vinnick district government administration for the provision of funding to connect the central district hospitals in Vinnitské district to the e-Health system from a medical subsidy reserve approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 07.11.2018 No. 813. Alexia Goncharenka to the Odessa City Head for providing an official response to increase the cost of heating in Odessa separately for the population, religious and budgetary organizations, other consumers, and for the economic justification of heat tariffs, as well as the cost of heating up one square metre of heated space in the heating season 2018-2019. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on possible illegal actions against the head of the Western Territorial Group on the prevention and detection of corruption by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Lieutenant Colonel of Justice of L.O. Moses. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the personal review of the investigation into the murder of an activist, a public figure, the deputy of the Kremenac City Council of Vitali Vaszczenka. PavlovKishkara to the Ichnyan Police Department of the National Police Department in the Chernigiv region for the protection of the interests of Pat "Ukrzaliznica". PaulKishkar to the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption concerning the filing of a declaration by a person authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self - government, unreliable information. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the provision of living conditions for a multi-child family. Sergey Lechchenka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the possible concealment of property by law enforcement authorities. John Melniczuk's executive duty to the head of the Government of the Ukrainian Railway Association is to adjust the timetable for passenger trains with the aim of optimizing the railway connection between the city of Bar Winnicki district and other cities of Ukraine. John Melniczuk to the doer of the Ukrainian finance minister’s duties to provide information. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the collection and systematization of public information regarding the transfer to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate of Buildings, Buildings, Property of State Property. Igora Lucenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the immediate use of effective measures aimed at the collection of the cultural heritage of the "Host Court" architecture on the balance of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the integration of the interests of the Prilysnian United Territorial Society into the redistribution of educational subsidies from the State budget to the local budgets in 2018. IriniConstankevich is head of the Volin Regional Public Administration for the inclusion of Kamen Kashirsky, Kivertskie District and Lubshešev OTG education institutions in the list of investment objects to be financed in 2019 at the expense of the DFRD. Yurya Solovya to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide medicines for a severely ill child named Mount Yulia Viktorovna, of the district of Svetienne, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Yurya Solovya to the Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, for the verification of the pension of Michalisk Volodymyr Petrovich. Alexander Wiekula to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Cassation, Head of the Civil Court of Cassation, for the purpose of clarifying the procedural rules for the examination of the jurisdiction of disputes before the courts for the appeal of investors of the sums guaranteed by the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons. JuriyaTimoschenka to the head of the National Construction and Architecture Inspectorate of Ukraine for the implementation of building standards during the construction of the apartment building. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the impact of the ongoing and planned reforms on the health sector in Ukraine. Ruslana Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krošta", Head of the Kyiv District Council, Head of the Kiev Regional Public Administration for the non-admission of the network of PAT post offices "Krošta" in the Fastev region. Igor Alekseyev to the Director General of the Public Shareholders Association Kiivenergo on the technical state of internal electricity networks. Igor Alekseyev to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Director of the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Director of the National Scientific and Scientific Research Centre, the Director of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Director of the Ukrainian Research Institute of Special Technology and forensic experts of the Ukrainian Security Service on current issues of standardization of judicial and expert activities. Julius Lübecken to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the fulfilment of Ukraine's international obligations and the guarantee of fundamental human rights. Julius Lewkowyna and Natalia Agaphonova to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the mass discrimination of women by the mark of sex and age. JuryLevchenka to the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Prosecutor of the Kharkiv Region, the Kharkiv City Head, the Chief of the National Police Directorate in Kharkiv district, on the use of measures to respond to the grave violations of the rights of electricity consumers in Kharkiv. JuryLevchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for immediate work on the restoration of unworkable and stolen heat - energy counters in Kiev’s apartment buildings. Groups of National Deputies (Cervakova, Gopko, and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the attempt to deliberately destroy territories protected by the State and the abuse of power. Groups of National Deputies (Cervakova, Gopko, and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the inadmissibility of destroying 7 acres [7 ha] of forest in the State Forest Fund. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic state of the N-23 road. Oksana Bilozer to the head doctor of the Feofania Clinic of State Administration for the provision of medical care to a public activist, the head of the Civil Society Association "Ukrainian Society of Crimea" Hmelovski W.H. Oksana Bilozer to the Chief of the Administration of the National Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine for the non-derogation of violations of the rights of convicted persons who are being punished in the national correctional institutions of Ukraine for humane treatment, respect for human dignity and the right to health protection. Edward Matviychuk to the United States Department of Energy and Coal, Ministry of Social Policy, Ukraine, Odessa District Administration, Odessa City Council, Odessaoblanergo Association, regarding the objective consideration of the appeal of the single mother of Srebjak Catherine Andrijavni, who is raising two minor children on her own and living in Odessa City with a request for a solution to the situation that has resulted in a significant debt for electricity that needs to be restructured. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the primary professional organizations of higher education institutions of the Odessa region to prevent the further impoverishment of scientific and scientific personnel and of the universities of other categories. We finished reading the questions that came this week. We still have a number of answers to requests from national MPs who are not satisfied and ready to speak. Now, I'm going to read from who these discontents came from, but I want to pay attention to the national MPs, and I'm going to read those who don't, and the next week, the questions don't move. Okay. Answers came in. Dissatisfaction, more loyally, in response to requests from Lithuania Vladimir Mihajlovich, Kirsza Alexandra Viktorovich, Gopko Hanny Mikolaiyovna, Kupri Vitalia Mikolaiovich, another Kupri Vitalia Mikolaiovich, Seminachy Romana Sergiyovich, Ostrich Tetjana Georgievni, Najima Mustafa Massi, Najima Mustafa Massi, Vojcitski Victoria, Lešchenka Sergija Anatoliyovich and another Lešchenka Sergija Anatoliyevich. Since there are no deputies in the room, I ask the Secretariat not to answer these questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, please. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please. Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, six months ago, I sent a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of Defense for the need for reconstruction in the city of Novograd Wolin Hospital for the military. What's dictated here is that I'm going to sound a certain amount of statistics. During the period of the ATO, 2,000,493 people were mobilized from the city alone, of whom 248 were killed, injured 1 thousand, 280 people. To date, the number of Novograd Wallinian garrison military personnel has reached over 4,000. In addition, in the city of the Ministry of Defence pensioners - 2,000, 304; war veterans - 2,000, 81; military veterans - 870; war veterans who have received the relevant documents - only 7 thousand,530 people live in one city, and it is important to remember that they have families. I was told that this problem would be solved in 2018. The next answer is that this problem will be solved by the end of 2019. And finally, apparently, they're going to re-foot for 2020. Motivation is not enough money. The question is, How much more money does it take to restore the hospital for which there is room? Let me remind you that this building is located in a former building, the Count's property, in a beautiful park area on the banks of the Svet River. And obviously someone's already got an eye on this place. So I repeat my request to the Ministry of Defense to resolve these questions immediately or to explain to people why they should travel 100 miles [100 km] to get first aid. And I'm talking to the chairman. Regrettably, repeated reminders of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order for them to at least once to be able to analyze how the executive authorities respond to parliamentary requests and appeals, remain the voice of the outcry in the desert. Usually, the answers come in the form of a receipt of a signature, not usually of the person you were addressing, but of the 20th deputy of the thirtieth helper. And it turns out that the tail spins the dog, but the problem is not the tiredness of who signed or didn't sign it, but in fact, the problems that are extremely hot for people are ignored.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Mr. Litwin, I fully agree with you that, unfortunately, the executive authority is absolutely ignoring the authority of the national deputies, and this is the responsibility of a coalition that is primarily bound to control the executive power. And as long as there is no parliamentary control over the executive power, unfortunately, effective controls, unfortunately, we will, MPs, each of the deputies, all of us will receive a copy of those assistants you mentioned. But until we have effective parliamentary control, unfortunately, people won't know what's going on with them, how their money is spent, and what the government is doing with them in general. So we have somewhere else to go. We've finished our routine. And I want to point out that next week we have a job with voters. And the next plenary meeting will take place on November 4th at 10 a.m. I declare this morning's session closed.
