ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u1	Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So please prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? I'm asking the National Deputies to register. [[10:09:53]] 362 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today the countries of the free world celebrate the day of the establishment of the NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization. And on behalf of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament, I warmly welcome our allies. Our trend is to introduce Ukraine into NATO, and we step by step, reforming and reflecting Russian aggression, making it better and stronger, we go to the finish line. Ukraine will be in NATO. I also want to inform colleagues that after our evening conversation about the detention of the Drummer yesterday, I had a conversation with the Attorney General. And we agreed that I, on my behalf and on behalf of Parliament, had made a written request, and by the end of the day, the Attorney General had promised that he would deal with the situation and respond to the events that had taken place around the Drummer. I also want to say my position. For me, it is unacceptable when a prosecutor in a court representing the prosecution states that the law passed by the Ukrainian Parliament on amnesty is a worthless law. I believe that the prosecutor should not give political evaluations, but rather implement laws that are passed by the highest legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if he is incapable of law enforcement, let him go to lawyers and work in private practice to protect those he deems necessary. And in this situation, I think there should be a special investigation and a special evaluation of similar claims made by the prosecutor to enforce the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So as soon as I get an answer, I'm going to inform the Ukrainian Parliament, and I'm going to inform all the heads of the factions. And then we're going to make decisions about what we do next. Now, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by the national deputies. And I'm asking everyone who wants to, to participate, to record. And please sign up. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich gives the word Andrew Teteruk. Mr. Andrew, one second. Colleagues! I want to tell you more. Attention! Today, at 12:30, as we agreed yesterday, in Parliament, we will hear information from the head of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Freeman's Office and the head of the Sitnik's NAB. The rules will be as follows: within 10 minutes – a performance, 10 minutes – questions from national MPs, 25 minutes for factions, together 45 minutes. So from 12:30 to 2 p.m. we can both listen and ask questions to both the leaders of the structures that we've called into Parliament today. Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! On the eve of Space Day, which we're going to celebrate next week, I would like to raise a very important theme -- the existence of our state as space. It is very important for Parliament to play its controlling role with regard to the laws that we are enacting. And I want to remind you that the fifth state-wide space program, which was adopted from 2012 to 2017, is over. We did not hear the report on its implementation, but instead we allocated more than $1 billion from the State Budget of Ukraine. What have we received as a result of the five - year absorption of these funds? Nothing. The Cyclone-4 project, which we've allocated about 500 million, has led to zero efficiency; the Libide telecommunications satellite is over 300 million allocated, zero efficiency for our nation; the rest of the projects that we've allocated to you are zero efficiency for our nation. Instead, all the managers who have adopted the funds are unwilling to report, and they are always trying to shift responsibility to other reasons rather than their inactivity or noninterference in the execution of this space program. I urge our parliament to set a day on which we can help to find out what prevents us from successfully implementing a space program that prevents space leaders from doing what we can for them to successfully implement the space program so that they can benefit our country in order to actually not be on paper, but actually feel that our space sector is ready to compete with other space agencies and other countries. I urge you to listen to the report of the Head of the State Space Agency, to understand that we can help, in a way that directs the activities of our space activities in such a way that the funds that we will allocate to the next program that we would have, by the way, already been adopted in the past year for the next five years were successful in creating, successful in implementing, and to see that all the funds we allocate from the state budget are properly realized. The managers of the companies concerned are willing to report that they produce a useful product as a result and that they continue to work for our nation. It's not like I'm getting a masked bill and a waste of government money for nothing. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u3	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u4	So I demand a report, a consolidation of Parliament's efforts to focus on space issues and focus on success in implementing the space program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Health Committee recognized the work of the Cabinet of Ministers as unsatisfactory in the implementation of the annual health program. Yesterday, the committee also considered the decision to recognize the temporary duty of Minister of Health Suprun as unsatisfactory and recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers consider the issue of her dismissal. Why people from different factions asked questions and did not get answers on the committee yesterday. Although Ms. Suprun was and was unable to answer why the national health system had not been developed in two years or the proposed strategy for its implementation. Why she personally voted and supported the allocation of insufficient funds for 2018 for the implementation of the Reform Act. For him, 5 percent of the gross domestic product is killed in Final Positions. She personally agreed on a figure that for one third did not correspond at all to this amount. During the year, no health colleges were held, everything was taken, decisions made, and so on. She couldn't answer why four cases of polio were called an epidemic, and 10,000 cases of measles were a situation. She was unable to answer: The number of patients who were sick in 2017 and who died of botulism, the number of patients with hepatitis. I couldn't answer the terminated drugs for 150 million people who disposed of them and for what money. It's all for international purchases. I could not answer how many family doctors were needed to reform. Has she not answered the question, Why is the Extraterrestrial Medical Act not in place? I could not answer why Ukraine was deprived of words at the General Assembly of the World Health Organization. For non-membership fees. Yesterday's professional adequacy assessment, today's the time for political responsibility. You have to answer here whether half-minister, half-breed, half-citizens of Ukraine can work here. And today we're addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Andry Volodymyrovich, I know you're not here, but you're listening. Make an immediate decision on the appropriateness of the position and the release from Suprun’s work in the hall. I repeat three times because you are responding, do not bring it in on Friday, because there are no people, bring it in tomorrow. Do not make that decree on Friday, for there are no people; make it tomorrow. Let us consider tomorrow, for Friday there will be no people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u7	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u8	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Taking advantage of the opportunity, I turn to everyone, because it's really important, I think, even a crucial issue in the new history of our nations. Four years after the Dignity Revolution, even more. During this time, there is no serious separatist, during which time, in fact, there are no executions for the killers of the Celestial 100th, the murderers of the field. The Berkuts were given and allowed to flee the country, released from the courts, and the aunts also avoided punishment, whose blood of the Ukrainians, the blood of the heroes. And what do we see? Now they want to judge the Ukrainian, the ranger, the war veteran John Bubenčik, accused by the prosecutor's office of allegedly shooting at the Berkuts in Maidan. I don't think so! And in fact, the only one they're obviously going to put up after investigating all of Maidan's cases is the ranger who's being accused of allegedly shooting the Berkuts. This is, you know, what they say about what we've come up with! The circle's closed. And today, I think that every decent citizen, every patriot, should not be silent, because this system, it tests our reaction, what will be our reaction to this obvious rematch. And you just have to understand that it's up to us. All the things that we've been able to do over the years, only because of the social solidarity of patriots. And today, I think it's very important: now in the Cave Court on Cross Street, there's going to be a court hearing, and there's going to be a trial to come, there's going to be a patriot support, there's going to be justice to support. Because what the D.A. says is crazy. This is crazy! They're either crazy or FSB agents are the ones who write it. They say "Berkut" 18, 19, 20 numbers, he was protecting public order in Maidan. Just think about this cynicism and this frost! Well, it's no wonder that the Cave Court is now on trial -- the same Cave Court, which, for example, in 2014, released the killer of the special forces commander "Berkut" of the Gardener, who commanded the shooting of Heaven's 100th on the Institutional Street. He's escaped, he's fled to Russia, he's there now, like the rest of the Berkuts, and at the same time, the ranger is being tried today by the Cave Court. So I'm calling for solidarity, and I'm calling for today's power just not to get over it, but just to stop this madness, because it's going to end very badly for them and finally punish the killers of the Celestial 100, the ones on whose hands the blood continues to kill the Ukrainians on the front of the Moscow-Ukrainian war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u9	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u10	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, this week is special to all Ukrainians, to all the Eastern Christians who celebrate this week as passionate as the week that mentions events in the life of the Lord and Savior of Jesus Christ. And Ukraine, as a Christian state, whether it's Orthodox Christians or Catholic Christians or Protestant Christians, celebrates these events at a serious deep family level, being in temples in fasting. And this week, I would like to draw attention to such an important topic as the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian family, because we saw terrible figures at the end of last year, that the Ukrainians had decreased by another 200,000 people, and the birth rate was not reaching the point of death. We have seen a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs that Ukraine has entered the ten oldest countries in the world and that the proportion of elderly people in Ukraine will soon be more than 25 percent. Instead, we see a situation where there is no ministry, a department that even though it has a family in its name, where there is actually a relationship, where children are born, where children are formed and raised, where children are formed and raised, where the future generation is formed and raised. That's why we would like, on behalf of all the factions of Parliament right now, to express solidarity with Ukrainian citizens, who have gathered under Parliament today for a peaceful crucifix, a peaceful action, to remind legislators, to remind all Ukrainian citizens that the family is a very serious, fundamental value of the Ukrainian people, because the family is having relations, the family is having children, the family is having a future in the Ukrainian state, the family is supporting each other, the family is supporting young boys who are going to war, protecting them, the mother is praying for their sons or men, or the husband, the mother is praying and supporting them. Friends, instead, we have serious dangers when there are so-called gender ideologies in school that want to replace the two-sex idea that there's a man and there's a woman, there's a boy, there's a girl, there's a girl to replace it with an misunderstood so-called gender. Unfortunately, we have a problem with the fact that they want to legalize unnatural sexual perversions and make them normal in our society. We are firmly opposed, so we will support people today and fight for the Ukrainian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u11	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I'm asking you to focus on one important question right now. Those who think that electronic declarations for public activists were closed yesterday, my friends, you're very wrong. The question is not what is not closed; it becomes catastrophic. Because it's not just the declaration of public activists, it's about those who didn't vote in favour of repealing that rule today closing doors to the Ukrainian people and to the Ukrainian State to the European Union. Since Europeans invite us not just to their territory, they invite us to their own European standards. And these standards say that society has to control power, not the other way around. Because when power starts to control society, it's called totalitarian regime. And Europe will never accept the country that is the guide to this rule of totalitarian regime, where authorities have to control everyone's society as public activists. So, dear fellows, think about how you're going to go down to the people on the street, how you're going to go down to the shops and look into the eyes of those for whom you're going to close the European future. Those to whom we have been so difficult to meet 144 demands have been given a ride to Europe, and now this is a car that our European partners are telling us about, can take away, because this rule on the declaration of public activists, it is directly contrary to European standards. Dear colleagues, the question is no longer to be wise. If we were wise, that question would never have arisen. There is no question that Parliament can be smart. You'd be smart enough to decide that question a long time ago. The question is that the problem should not become a disaster, because if we close the way for the Ukrainian people to the European future, what will make this Parliament different from Yanukovic, who decided that it is not the Ukrainian people that make the decision, and it has its own position. No, our people, as national deputies, have given us a clear task -- the path to Europe, and we have to go this way, and we have to stay on this path. We don't have a choice, we have to go back to this issue on Thursday and vote it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u13	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Lacha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I received a letter from John Vishkowski from the village of Dobroničivka in the Kyiv region. They are a large family, 11 children who live and live in rural areas. Please show the video. A video was applied to this letter. The household of this many - year - old family — chickens, pigs, cows. And they're trying to survive it. And this young guy who owns it. Look, fellow MPs, many of you have cows with your politics. Soon we will see cows in the museum if the authorities continue the same policy they are pursuing today. Because this many - parent family, 11 children, and millions of other Ukrainian rural families are unable to feed their family because of the meager price of milk. And this John Vishkowski wrote me in a letter, he has a dream of mastering his own land, but he can't realize his dream, and he's going to have to go, he thinks, to another country where he can earn and work. And it is sad that young people do not see opportunities in their own country to work and earn. And the big farm, there's 6 cows, 8 pigs, the broilers, planted a garden, and this big farm still can't feed itself, because the price of milk is low, instead of milk, it's steaming palm oil. And the authorities today want to ban the purchase of milk and meat in peasants, such as the Vishkovsky family, and in millions of other families. I have a simple question to ask the President and the government: and on account of what to survive the Ukrainian peasants, when it's the only income they get from selling milk, selling meat and vegetables during the season, because they've been working all their life on the farm, and they're getting copier pensions. Medicine's gone. There is no social sphere. That is why we demand the President, and the government will refuse to ban the sale of meat and milk from private agriculture. On the contrary, to introduce state programs to support and restore animal welfare so that our children can see, not in the museum next to dinosaurs, but in my childhood, at least in every yard, three cows. Yesterday, at the Committee on Agricultural Policy, we achieved the first reading of the support of the Palm Oil Prohibition Act. I ask Parliament to consider this law without delay so that Ukrainians eat quality dairy instead of palm oil. This is an opportunity for farmers to feed their families and protect the health of Ukrainians so that they are not fed with all kinds of stings but are given the opportunity to live decently in their home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u15	Thank you. And the last performance. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Novak. Please, Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u16	Victor Chumak, 214th constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district. Dear colleagues, trust in the State exists only when there is a notion of justice in the State. And this justice must exist not only to citizens who are at large, but to all categories of citizens, including those who are in places of deprivation. Moreover, the principle of democracy is that it is better not to condemn 3-4 wrongdoers than to condemn at least one innocent person. In November 2015, the Parliament passed the 20th Law on the first reading of 2033a. This Act is called the Amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for the provision of individual categories of convicted persons with the right to a judicial sentence). What is the point of this law? And the point of this law is that when the queen of evidence -- the confession of her guilt -- was reigning in the country behind the old KPC -- that confession was driven out of many people by torture, torture, other unlawful means. According to the Kharkiv Law Protection Group today, of the one and a half thousand persons sentenced to life imprisonment, about 3-4 percent — imagine! – 3-4 percent, that's about 60 people being sentenced to life imprisonment without guilt. Moreover, about 10 percent of these people have been imprisoned today with punishment, with unjust punishment for the gravity of the crime. In 2016, Parliament adopted this law in the first reading, this bill, and then there was a stop. And why did this stop come about? Why can’t Parliament continue to consider this law today? And it's very simple. Imagine that these people who have been illegally sentenced to life imprisonment will have to be held accountable. Who? And it will be necessary for prosecutors and judges to answer. Prosecutors and judges who used torture for these people, who applied to these people the beatings of shows that made unjust decisions. And the system simply stopped the passage of this law. No factions. And by the way, the authors of this law also have representatives of the People's Front, there are representatives and there are BPTs, and by the way, the President's Representative is also in the authors of this draft law. But the husband of the President's representative is absolutely against the adoption of this bill because he's going to have to hand over those prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Ten seconds, come on, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u18	I'm asking you very much. We have a huge debt, we have to take and adopt Law 3033. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Actually, there's a chronometer on the video, and that's why we have time for two more performances. There's a show, time. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Berezu. Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today's government meeting, and I'd like to ask all cabinet members today to make changes to the 615th ruling, which in turn will allow us to address the issue of the continuation of special permits, including for industrial enterprises. Now very many coal mining mines are unable to continue because Geonadra is unable to do so in view of the fact that many mines have tax debt, there and, including, there, for land leases. And actually this 615 is the answer to that question. I spoke properly yesterday with the Minister of Ecology, Ostap Semerak, today he will report this decision to the Cabinet of Ministers. I will ask after the report that the Prime Minister will sign this decree sooner, publish it on the government's website. Because literally in a few days, there's going to be a meeting of the Geonadr commission, so they can still continue to have these specials for coal mining. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers for the adoption of the 615 decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Pinzenic. Please. Please, National Deputy Ionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, I would like to stress today, on behalf of the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block, the need to improve the instrument for the protection of Ukraine's national interests and, let's say, there are hybrid threats facing our country and the international arena, we would like to complete the reform of the diplomatic service at this plenary week, as set out in Presidential Bills 7322 and 7323. Our diplomats, as we are all witnesses to you, are a powerful coalition of Western democratic states that advocates the territorial integrity of Ukraine and opposes the imperial attack by the Russian Federation. Therefore, the adoption of the bill is a key element of the reform of the diplomatic service necessary to move from the post-Radians system to the diplomatic service of the European model. This concept is based on a better experience of the European Union and the United States. The President-in-Office of Ukraine, as an immediate bill, is based on the results of the very thorough work of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, and I am very grateful to Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, the head of the working group, for his work with the involvement of all the ministries and departments involved, and I am a very professional, not a political document. The main purpose of the draft law is to adapt Ukraine's legislation on diplomatic service to the Ukrainian State Service Act. Indeed, the strengthening of the activities of the diplomatic services, the introduction, the passage and the cessation of diplomatic service by its employees. A competitive procedure for entering the diplomatic service is in place and there is competition at every stage of career advancement. At the same time, demands for diplomats have been greatly increased compared with other government officials. Yes, the worker is given more freedom, but he is also subject to higher requirements, and more responsibility is also required, including the possibility of setting up a normal working day abroad. We know that diplomats work 24 hours a week to protect the national interests of the state and the rights of Ukrainian citizens. It also provides for compulsory participation in the rotation of diplomatic workers, including the possibility of transferring from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Ukraine’s foreign diplomatic institutions and vice versa in the interests of the service. So there's really a lot of positives. And I would like to say that this really modernization of legislation regarding the conduct of diplomatic service is very important for the introduction of an effective foreign policy in the face of opposition to Russian aggression and temporary occupation of part of the territory. We therefore have a very good opportunity to modernize the principles of diplomat activity and make their work easier and more effective in order to protect our interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u23	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u24	To protect the interests of our citizens. So I'd like to ask, maybe tomorrow will be a day's work, to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u25	Thank you. And the last performance. I would like to write to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u26	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to remind you that last year, when we voted successfully for the pension reform, I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament has adopted one of the historic decisions that has been taken by the introduction of a mandatory accumulation pension system in Ukraine since 1 January 2019. I think this is one of the most important steps and this is one of the key socio-economic reforms that our state needs. Moreover, I would like to point out that more than 60 national deputies have co-sponsored the relevant Bill 6677 on the mandatory introduction of a cumulative pension system and mechanisms for its introduction. I want to say that not only will the system allow personal savings accounts to be personalized alongside the solidarity system, but this system is a powerful driver of economic reforms in Ukraine, because it will allow multibillion-dollar investments in Ukraine's economy, allowing long-term lending to be restored, allowing the stock market to be launched in our country, allowing it to be able not to use external funding, but also allowing it to access domestic domestic investment. I want to point out that today the assets of non-state pension funds in the world make up 34 trillion US dollars, totaling more than the GDP of all countries in the world. I also note that, unfortunately, the Ukrainian State has not yet succeeded in introducing this compulsory system in Ukraine. That's why I want to point out that a month ago, the Social Policy Committee unanimously decided to support Bill 6677. And I'm addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, I'm addressing the factions, the co-authors of this bill have come forward with all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm about to introduce this bill into the parliament walls and look at it and make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u27	Thank you. So the time for the presentations is over. At the same time, I'd like to report that there's been a statement from the Opposition Block and the Rebirth for the break, but they're willing to replace it. And it will be Yuri Miroshnichenko to speak from the rostrum. Please, Mr. Yuri, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head! First of all, I would like to thank the MPs for their support for our initiative on this speech. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I would like to address you, especially those who observe the meetings of the Supreme Council on television and listen on the radio. I want to draw your attention: along the entire street of Gruszewski, thousands of people are approaching the Supreme Council of Ukraine today who have come to express their concern about the future of our country. What do these people talk about, what do they call us? They address each Christian as an extremely important week in the lives of every Orthodox and probably every believer, regardless of religion. Because these people don't just represent Christians or even Orthodox people, these people who have come out with concern about the future of the Ukrainian family, are people who are waiting for you and us to have a fairly principled position on the part of preserving our Ukrainian identity. There will be no nation - there will be no future, there will be no achievements if we do not preserve what makes us Ukrainians, what conveys our deep beliefs and what creates a system of values. And these values are, of course, based on Christianity, of course, on the culmination of their family relationships, on the support of the family, on the support of motherhood, parenthood, and childhood. But these people came not only to speak. They believe that there is a danger to our family, every family that makes up our country. They believe that there are great dangers now, and they even say that a family is being cut out in Ukraine. They talk about the fact that in the Constitution, in civil law, in family law, in labour law, in each of the directions that we work for here with you -- national deputies on their committees -- there are certain dangers that can destroy the future of our families. I think we need to listen to these people. I believe that regardless of which factions each of us is in, we feel our personal responsibility for those who voted for us, who link our future to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u30	And I want to make sure that I know that because we have a prayer group that includes all the factions, I know that the leadership of the Supreme Council also supports that people, as well as concerned about the future of the Ukrainian family, have a strong representation in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Colleagues, we've finished speaking from factions, we're moving on to daytime issues. And I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. We have a day-to-day agenda that brings together a room where I am confident that there will be general support for all factions -- the rights and individuals of internally displaced persons and the draft Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of ATO. It is only important that we be able to mobilize and be able to speak effectively and make a positive decision. So I'm going to have a request because we don't have much time to consider these laws in a simplified way. And I'm going to propose this room, but so that we can get a positive vote, I'm going to ask everyone to take their seats and get ready to vote. So the committee's request is also that we be able to take both of those laws, which are extremely relevant, to consider the simplified procedure, to support the consideration of the simplified procedure. Can I count on support? So I'm betting right now. We go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of the ATO (as regards the features of documents that certify the person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine) (No. 4023a). Request for a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:51:08]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we will now consider the issue of the state's debt to a part of Ukrainian citizens. We're talking about our fellow citizens, who, by their own free will, ended up in a war zone in an anti-terror zone. These are three categories of citizens: internally displaced persons; Ukrainian citizens living in the area. in an area controlled by the government; and Ukrainian citizens who live in an area that the government temporarily does not control. It's about citizens' identities. For objective reasons, and for obvious reasons, the antiterrorist operation lost access to primary databases that allow individuals to be identified. Passport forms that were placed in the appropriate organs and Form 3 so-called, all of this is now lost. And we have a situation where these citizens are discriminated against. What does this law offer? He suggests, first of all, that citizens living in the area of anti-terrorist operations issue these documents at the place of appeal; citizens who have moved from the area of anti-terrorist operations to the place of residence or residence. And the third. This is in addition to supporting documents that are allowed to use the national voter register. The committee considered the bill and in its entirety asked the Supreme Council to support it on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u34	I'll give the hero a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u35	Next performance from the Self-Help faction. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u36	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished Mr. Head! Absolutely. The State must care for those who, contrary to their will today, have become hostages of Russian military aggression and are in temporarily occupied territories. However, I would like to draw attention to the scenario of the implementation of this bill. For three years, Self-Help in this Parliament has insisted on the adoption of a comprehensive bill on temporarily occupied territories. For three years, we have stressed that the issue of obtaining documents that support citizenship is whether a person or his or her special status as a person living in a temporarily occupied territory today is to be carried out by the central executive authority, which also implements State policy in the field of migration, including countering illegal migration. And information from government registers, including from the national voter register, should be used to provide information on the residence or residence of citizens. And three years later, unfortunately, this law looks a little out of date. Well, first of all, there's no ATO anymore and the status of the territories that were the ATO's already changed. There's a project that can actually launch or create such risks through legalization of fighters. Well, notice what's going on in the documentation section for residents of the anti-terrorist operation zone. The project proposes such a mechanism as a request by a person or his legal representative. So in practice, this may be the situation where the person who lives in Donetsk, for example, will come to see her legal representative. Who, in what way, will confirm the legitimacy of the representative? Notarius, who remained in uncontrollable territory? Can a member of the occupying administration do so? So I'm convinced that the settlement of these issues should rely solely on the central authority of the executive branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u37	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u38	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Without a doubt, this decision is extremely important and relevant, and it should have been made much earlier. At the same time, I would like to point out that the adoption of this law will result in the simultaneous existence of different legal mechanisms for obtaining documents that confirm the identity of the person who has moved from the counterterrorism area. One person will receive all kinds of documents after obtaining the status of internally displaced persons in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. Other citizens who have moved from the ATO area but who have not wanted to become an internally displaced person will have the opportunity to draw up documents that identify the person with the actual place of residence. There are a number of other problems that need an urgent legislative solution today to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens who have left their homes. That's why the Opposition Block supports this bill to adopt in the first reading and the second reading to remove any disagreements that they might not complicate the already difficult lives of Ukrainian citizens of internally displaced persons. At the same time, once again, I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that the establishment of the status of a child affected by military action and armed conflict is effectively blocked by the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. The Cabinet of Ministers continues to ignore the law, not to comply with the law, and, more than that, today requires children who have suffered war, who have been affected by a change in their place of residence, who demand that they prove their suffering to the authorities. On another occasion, I'm calling on the government to change the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u39	Thank you. And, fellows, we're about to make a closing statement. No, I'll still be from the will of the people. So Mosiychuk Igor of the Radical Party faction. Prepare Shahov from the "will of the people" group. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u40	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, support for internally displaced persons is essential, and frankly, refugees are needed. It is necessary to settle the issue of obtaining documents that identify a person. But it's not just a legal issue, it's not just a legal question, it's probably a human rights issue, it's a national security issue. Why? Because of the uncontrollable occupied territories under the cover of this law, individuals will come to the peaceful territory of Ukraine, get passports, commit terrorist acts, assassinations, conduct information diversions, and so forth. In this regard, I feel that it is inappropriate to place such a responsible mission on the local authorities. And the primary responsibility for this is to take on the central authorities. And the Ukrainian Security Service, which has to verify who, under what circumstances, has lost documents that a person wants to obtain documents. Because of the voter register, we know what happened to the voter registers. It was changed for every election, under every election it was made. So our faction is ready to support this bill in its first reading, requiring it to be finalized in the light of national security. To avoid buying passports in the markets, as was the work done by the killer who tried Adam Osmaeus and Amin Okivov. And don't let it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds. Thank you. Now is the closing statement, so I'm very much asking the factions' heads to invite deputies into the hall. Please report that there will be a vote in two minutes. And now Shahov of the will of the people, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u42	Luganshina, Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues! Today the genocide of the Ukrainian people is taking place. We all speak from the rostrum: to Europe, to Europe, to Europe! Why not put order inside our country so that Europe will call us to it. A million 700,000 displaced people stayed on the sidelines. Grandma's going to the Pension Fund today, and she's told, "Bring the documents from 1986, with the seal of the Lugansk Region." Your Honor, that doesn't fit in at all. The Constitution's direct rule has been violated, and the movers can't vote. I'm a mover myself, I can go to the Supreme Council, and the movers can't vote today. Today we need to support the displaced so that they do not come to the Supreme Council today. Let's see what's going to happen in Maidan when 1 million 700,000 people come and ask you to put order in the state, you have to vote and you have to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u43	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Once again, I urge everyone to return to their places of work, and I ask all members of the people to enter the hall. Please come into the hall, colleagues, from the towers, from the cabinets, from the guest rooms, and I ask you to take up jobs. And invite someone you don't see around, just call and invite. Colleagues in bed, can you vote? So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of the ATO (as regards the features of the documents that identify the person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine) (No. 4023a) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please, colleagues, vote and I ask you to support this as a basis. Each vote carefully, please vote for base 4023a, and we vote. [[11:04:44]] For 202 We're not there yet. I'll be right back. Please invite me to the hall. Please come into the hall, I'll put you back. I'll make an offer to return to consideration. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the debate on the basis of draft Law 4023a. Please vote and please support, return to voting as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:06:05]] For 207 Colleagues, come on, I'm inviting everyone into the hall, please come into the hall. One more minute, please, to the head of the Grigory Restoration Committee. And, factions heads, please invite the deputies to the hall. One minute, Gregory Restless. I'll put it back again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I'm going to the entire room, to everyone here, and especially to colleagues from the Self-Help faction. You can talk a lot about patriotism, you can talk a lot about how we all love our Ukraine. But this love and patriotism are reflected in concrete steps. What are we talking about now? Now, without voting on the basis, I stress this bill, self-help colleagues are actually pushing Ukrainian citizens out to get Russian passports. And we got passports for DNR and LNR. We need to get a little bit out of this quick understanding of what it is. Be guided by national interests. Take care of Ukrainian citizens. Now it's a test. I'm asking the Self-Help faction to rethink its position and support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Roman Semenha, a replica. And please don't come out of the hall, but come into the hall. Brigitte.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u46	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I'm asking a colleague not to manipulate the interests of the state, because it's the position of the state that is the order. For three years in this Parliament the faction of Self-Help has registered, advocated a colleague for the Law on Interim Inoculations, where the order of these people was clearly defined. Because we need to take real steps: laws that clearly place a responsibility on the central authority of the executive branch to resolve these issues. So instead of creating such hybrid solutions, you have to solve them essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Colleagues, the discussion is over, we can only vote now. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and I'm going to put it back on the table because there was a line. I'll give the head of the committee, and there was a lineup, there was no discussion. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. I'll put it back. So I propose to return to the vote on the basis of draft Law 4023a and ask everyone to participate in the vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:09:14]] For 213 213. I'll do it one last time. My colleagues, this is the last time I'm going to put a third. Please, I see a few deputies have come in, they haven't made it. I'll put you in your jobs, colleagues. So I'm going to make a final suggestion to go back to this bill, and when I talk about it, please be at work. Take your jobs now, don't leave the hall. So I'm going to make a final proposal to go back to voting on draft Law 4023a as a basis. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please, everyone, take your seats. Oleg, there will be a vote. Please take up jobs. Ready, ready? A group of deputies came in, and I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 4023a. Please support and please vote. Careful, every voice! I urge everyone to vote carefully. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote carefully. [[11:10:41]] For 229 We're back. And now I'm putting Law 4023a on the ground. Colleagues, pay attention! Every voice! Based on the base. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. And I very carefully ask everyone to participate in the vote. [[11:11:07]] For 230 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft of Act 6142 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on the Protection of Student Housing Rights. I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:11:41]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Minority Rights to report. of human rights, minority rights and international relations with Suslov Irina Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u48	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, over one and a half million internally displaced persons have been abandoned. During the last few years, you and I have made decisions and strategies regarding displaced persons, but the problem remains unresolved. This bill proposes to address the issue of temporary housing of student displaced persons and to protect their rights to housing after school. The story of this bill from a student's life in Kharkiv. This year he ends up studying in college and can't go home because his home is now an occupied part of Ukraine. As you can see, the guy's gonna be thrown out of the dorm, he's gonna be homeless, he's gonna be homeless, he's gonna be out of a place of registration, he's gonna start having trouble with employment, bank payments, that sort of thing. There are hundreds of such students in Kharkiv and what to do with them at the moment. Now, colleagues, let's imagine our children in a similar situation. Are we, in whose hands today is the fate of the future generation of Ukrainians, able to remain indifferent to this problem? We have no right to do that. We need to create an effective and clear mechanism to solve this problem. First of all, we need to settle the registration issue. In the bill, the authors envisioned the possibility for students who had registered in the hostel after they had completed their studies at the time of their registration, to obtain a permit from the same registration authority for the remaining residence in the occupied territory. We also suggest that at the site of the registration, students may receive help on the collection of the internally displaced person if they do not want to return home. Such changes guarantee students the right to receive social benefits for displaced persons. Secondly, the bill is set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u49	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u50	The bill guarantees that for students who have completed their studies and have registered residences in university dormitories, the place of temporary residence registration for the next six months will be this very room in the dormitory. Our committee supported the decision to adopt this bill as a basis. I ask Parliament to concentrate now and adopt a similar decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u51	Thank you. I'm inviting you to. And you've been speaking from the committee, too, right? Okay. Then let's move on to the discussion. Please take part in the discussion, please record. Dear colleagues, a record is being made for the discussion. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rickov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u52	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support this bill because it is socially necessary for people who unfortunately cannot be in their homes at the moment. So I ask everyone to mobilize and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u53	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Pavlenko. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u54	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Of course, when the State does not provide an integrated approach to the protection of the rights of internally displaced persons, when it does not actually create the necessary social guarantees for the marked, socially vulnerable population, when conditions are not created for the provision of housing for persons who have not left their homes by choice and who live in a territory controlled, Ukrainian territory, we are obliged all together, regardless of political belongings and political slogans, even though we are able to settle the issue of securing a place of registration for internally displaced persons. But at the same time, with all the positiveness of the legislative initiative, I find it indignant and sad that the State has in fact removed itself from the problems of internally displaced persons, from adequate pension insurance, has been removed from the development and allocation of the necessary funds to implement the affordable housing programme. Look at this: 40 million dollars, when the real power, the real coalition that represents it, was set aside to implement the affordable housing program. This is a priority task: to ensure that the persons in question are home and that they are given the right to vote. And we can't deprive them of that right either, because this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was voted without even participating in those areas that were on the collision line and that are under Ukrainian jurisdiction. It should be noted that the President’s next election to the Supreme Council should also be held with regard to the votes of the persons listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u55	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Amazanoff of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u56	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u57	Please, National Deputy Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support this legislative initiative, because the main thing for us in our activities for the People's Front faction is to ensure the social rights of our participants to combat in the ATO zone and internally displaced persons. Personally working on a profile committee that adopts a lot of legislation on this subject, we do everything we can to ensure that our internally displaced persons receive the greatest social protection. It's also the dormitories that we see in this case as well as the construction of housing. In particular, I would like to point out that there is also such a category of "Fighters in the ATO zone -- (thir) internally displaced persons." There are over 3,000 of them. These are the people who took up arms and protected our state in 2014 and then demobilized them into the status of internally displaced persons. So far, this has not been settled in legislation, so I think the next step will be to register the bill. And I also want to point out that there are positive developments and also the protection of the social rights of the population. The 2018 budget provides a pendulum of 25 million dollars to build housing for participants in combat activities in the ATO area of internally displaced persons. Thank you. Please support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Taras Shepherd of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u60	Taras Shepherd. It's the Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, I just want to ask everyone to take this bill and read it carefully. This bill does not apply in any way to participants in an anti-terror operation. In no way does it apply to those people who today, with weapons, defend the sovereignty and independence of our country. The bill says that today the state has self-sustained from solving in this case the particular problem of a person who is studying in Kharkiv today and has proposed in this bill a six-month extension of his problem. Because in six months he's going to face the same problem again that he won't have a place to live, he won't have a place to work, he's going to be on the street, and he's going to have the same choice: either go back to occupied territory, or look for another place to live and find a way to pay for this place. So, actually, for these people, and we have a profile ministry for this, there was a program to be done, and these people were offered education in our educational institutions, to those who moved from occupied territory, to see their prospects for living in Kharkiv, Kiev, in Ternopol, working decently, to get paid for their jobs and to be able to rent, and perhaps to obtain decent housing. This bill does not solve their problems. What's more, he's creating another problem: that these people are going to take up places that maybe from September 1st they're going to take up first class. They're not going to be able to step into the same room, and they're going to have to, you know, boys, girls who come from Ternopol to Kharkiv, from Lviv or Kiev, look for other housing and pay huge expenses for it. Therefore, we should not solve problems at the expense of other problems. Therefore, it is necessary to work on the program of the State and to accept and decide not just one croquet but for all those who have chosen Ukrainian ties today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u61	Colleagues, now from Fatherland Rybchin. Then from "The Will of the People" Shahov. Then there's the line. I know the name. Was the name mentioned? Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u62	Rybchin Alexei, Fatherland, Doñecina. "Paternity" will vote in favour of this bill, it's right, it's European, it's Christian, it's essentially helping those who get into trouble. Also, colleagues, I would like to report on the fact that we adopted the Law on Moved Higher Education Institutions a few years ago by the Supreme Council, and we have, in fact, solved the problem that relates to it. Because almost all the higher education institutions moved were able not to fight bureaucracy but to fight for the quality of education and participation of students. Some of the displaced colleges that couldn't do that, they found shelter and joined other moved higher education institutions, like the Tavrian National University, for example, expressed their readiness and gave room to the Donetsk Academy of Music, and we now have such a very powerful pre-Kriminal center, hopefully the Lugansk Academy of Culture will join us, and we'll have such a very powerful cultural college. Yet there are a number of problems. The Ministry of Finance does not implement the law at the 0.8 rate for higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u63	Please, how much? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u64	And there's also a series of higher education institutions: the Donbas National Academy of Construction and Architecture in Kramatorsk, the Luhansk National Agrarian University in Kharkiv, the Gorlov Institute in Bachmat -- who want to get their own use of the premises, and there's a balance sheet agreement, but because of bureaucratic procedures they can't get it and they can't get it, they can't get the funds involved, they can't develop. Please, and I demand that ministries comply with the rules of law and that they be able to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u65	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Shahov. Please invite the deputies into the hall, and please come into the hall. Please invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u66	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, displaced again. But this time they are children, children who have to develop and live in Ukraine from those territories. And once again, I urge you all to support this bill, because our children are our future. And if we throw them off today, we throw our country into the abyss. I'm asking you to support this bill and allow children to develop, get jobs, somewhere when they import mineral fertilizer from Russia, and billions of dollars our country loses when mines don't work, 70,000 miners sit without jobs, 4 billion dollars doesn't get Donbas. When all businesses are destroyed today, who will build our country apart from our children? Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u67	Thank you. The factions are finished. I'm asking you to come into the hall and not go out, but, on the contrary, come in. Please invite the factions to the Hall. I've been giving the committee a minute to explain to Suslow. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And take up jobs. Please, one minute, Suslova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u68	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, please, I want you to understand that by voting for this bill, we are giving these students a chance to find a place, a six-year residence, and a job for themselves. If we don't give it a chance, we're going to say to you and we're going to do what we say, "Friends, now pack your things and go to occupied territory. All we've got is education and that's enough." Please first read, support this text. All the contradictions that a person has, note, are included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u69	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats so that you do not have to bet on your return. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take up jobs. Please. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons on the Protection of Student Housing Rights (No. 6142) by decision of the Committee on the Basis. Just for the basis. Edits and suggestions will be included in the second reading. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful. Vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:26:56]] For 229 Decision taken. We go to the next draft of the law -- this is the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Recognition of Children of Journalists, who have been killed or who have been disabled by 1 group in relation to the performance of professional duties, children who need special social attention and support. 7537 and 7537-1. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:27:46]] For-147 I'll put it again, colleagues, more carefully. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure so that we have a chance to consider more laws. Please don't go out. We're short a few votes, three votes. Please don't go out. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:28:18]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Churkin Alexander. Alexander Igorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In the fall of the year, the President of Ukraine signed a decree on additional measures for the social protection of children of journalists who have died or who have been disabled in connection with their professional duties. Bill 7537 was drafted to implement this decree, which includes an expansion of the list of categories of children who need special social attention and support at the expense of children of journalists who have been killed or who have been diagnosed with disability and the group’s professional responsibilities. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Child Health and Recreation Act provides for the health and rest of such children to be carried out at the expense of the state budget, local budgets, enterprise funds, institutions and organizations, professional associations and funds, voluntary contributions from legal and natural persons or other sources that are not prohibited by legislation. Since the State is obliged to care for and care for those who need it most, these are especially children who are the future of our Ukraine. So given the great social significance of this bill, we ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill in the session room today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u71	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u72	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! If the government bill provides that budget funds will bring about the recovery and rest of the children of journalists who have been killed, who have only been diagnosed with disability in Group I, Timoshenko and I believe that this should be done to heal the children not only who have been disabled in Group I but also in Group II, because it is the most difficult for any human being. And so the benefits for such journalists must be the same. In addition, our bill stipulates that budget funds are responsible for the recovery and rest of all children, one of whose parents has a disability of group I or group II, which usually does not have a government bill. I want to remind you that when you've adopted a budget, the method of the actual subsistence minimum that these people pay today is 2,000,663 bracelets. And that's why there's a misunderstanding of the position of the committee that's based on the government bill and completely ignored, let's say, those children who have been disabled by the third group, as well as children who don't have one of the parents anymore. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask that you and I take as a basis the law of the Fatherland with possible legal work. Because we're going to get more of those people who need help from the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u73	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Veliczovich Mikola Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u74	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 27 February 2018, the Committee reviewed draft laws of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Recognition of Children of Journalists, who were killed or who had been disabled by 1 group in relation to professional duties, children in need of special social attention and support (7537 registration number) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children (draft 7537), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko and Yvchenko. Both bills propose to amend the list of children. changes to the list of children who need special social attention and support. Accordingly, they are entitled to health and rest at the expense of their budget. The Chief Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt both bills as a basis. Committee members stressed the need to expand the categories of children who are entitled to health and rest at the expense of their budget. At the same time, further discussion is needed. The aim is to include all single mothers or only those children in the listed list in categories where the average monthly total income of the family does not exceed two subsistence minimums for children of appropriate age. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Recognition of Children of Journalists, who have been killed or who have been disabled by 1 group in relation to the performance of professional duties, children who need (15 seconds), who need special social attention and support provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of the relevant ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u75	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u76	taking into account its preparation for the second reading of the separate provisions of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, which require special attention and State support (registration number 7537-1), submitted by national deputies Timoshenko and Yvchenko. Once again, the government bill is based on the second reading to take into account the standards of the second bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u77	Please record: two in, two in. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u78	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact we must support any children, children who are Ukrainians. But what's more, we have to support orphans, children who have been deprived of parental care and children who have become disabled as a result of their journalistic activities. There is a difference between the first and the second bills. If the government bill proposes to heal children exclusively of those parents who are disabled in Category I, then the bill, which my colleague Vadim Yvchenko has just reported under the authority of Yulia Timoshenko, proposes to add to this category those parents who are both 1st and 2nd categories, although the "Fatherland" faction will support two bills. Or the Bill of Julius Timoshenko proposes to support parents with disabilities in the first and third categories or children of single mothers. The Fatherland faction will support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u79	Thank you. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction, Rybak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u80	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, there are no foreign children, and so our faction will fully support the committee's proposal to vote in favour of the first bill on the basis and when working on the second reading work with exactly 7537-1. In fact, the point is that our colleague Yvchenko is absolutely right, and the third group of parents with disabilities is also a serious enough problem to raise and help develop these children. Therefore, we should be able to help children, including those in whom parents have a second disability group, and those in whom mothers are raised. At the same time, we should not forget or talk only about the children of journalists, we should talk about the children of volunteers who have died, the children of special services workers, rescue workers, other categories of workers who have lost their jobs in the service of life or health. So our faction will fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u81	From the opposition block of Dudenkov. Turn on the microphone. Debenkov, you're on. Yes, Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen. President-in-chief, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, first of all, on the first two issues, we believe that the two bills adopted in the first reading solve only small, minor problems faced by internally displaced persons, much more problems. That is why we demand full consideration of all the bills that apply to internally displaced persons in Parliament on full-time work. Because today’s vote showed that they were almost randomly voted today. With regard to the bill under consideration, the Opposition Block supports both bills – both government and parliamentary. At the same time, we believe that the bill tabled by the MPs is much better and more systematic. Regrettably, the government has once again submitted to Parliament a low - professional, circumcised bill. We ask, but in any case, we will vote in favour of both bills. I would also like to point out that the subject of physical danger to journalists is one of the greatest threats to freedom of speech today. Corresponding to the index of the physical danger of journalists in Ukraine. conducted by international and Ukrainian organizations, recorded only in 2017 90 incidents of the application of force to journalists. Only in March of this year are 10 such incidents of physical assault on journalists. International organizations make enough critical statements to Ukraine. That is why the Opposition Block supports the initiative of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, which more than six months ago introduced the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Safety of Journalists and Freedom of Speech in Ukraine. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u83	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u84	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please consider my statement as a request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like you to make an order for the day's work of the Supreme Council to order parliamentary hearings for the protection of journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u85	Thank you. And, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, and after that, we'll move on to making a decision. So in three minutes we're going to vote, and I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. And now I give the floor to the People's Front of Ungurian Paul Yakimovitch. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u86	Honorable colleagues are certainly both right. I think we are all aware that the profession of a representative, an employee of the media in the realities of today's world is one that needs protection, social protection, and social protection of family members, especially children. So we encourage both of these bills to support, take as a basis, and work out where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u87	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Colleagues, I had a consultation with the drafters of the bill from the MPs. And Ivchenko Vadim suggested that we vote in government. Listen to me! Mr. Vadim, I'm making your proposal now. To make sure that we vote in bill 7537, taking into account the proposal from the MP's bill, in particular the expansion of the circle of children who have received the disability of the second group. So that we can vote on the basis of that wording. Mr. Rybak, that was your offer. And it will be unifying. This is the first reading. With such an amendment already in the body of the first reading, we will be able to have it counted for the second reading. Is that the position taken? Let's move on to making a decision. and ask everyone to come into the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Rest of Children on the Recognition of Children of Journalists Who Have Been Killed or Who Have Been Disabled and the Group's Occupational Responsibility, Children Who Need Special Social Attention and Support (No. 7537), taking into account the proposals of the parliamentary bill, so that the second reading takes into account the proposal to extend to children who have been disabled by Group II based on the Committee's proposals. Please vote. And please support me, colleagues. Please take up jobs. Wait a second. Take up jobs. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. [[11:43:56]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question. These are the draft decrees and the first decree that we have on the agenda. This is a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Prevention and combating discrimination against women from vulnerable social groups" (No. 8082). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:37]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite the head of Suslov's subcommittee, Irina Mikolayevna, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination against Women from Vulnerable Social Groups. I feel that such impulses are essential. Today, entire categories of women are subject to multiple discrimination. The situation worsened considerably after fighting in eastern Ukraine, which claimed hundreds of thousands of women for violence, mistrust, economic poverty, and escape from their homes. At present, 60 percent of internally displaced persons are women. In the new communities where they settled, these people cannot take root, they are denied work, they are viewed as second class people. Women of VPO become and experience multiple discrimination every day. We have a huge problem, and with society's attitude towards Roma women, many of them don't have any documents, they live in terrible conditions, their children can't get an education. Rural women are in a humiliating position. Did you know that every third woman in Ukraine lives in a rural area? And that she has no right and no opportunity to get quality medical services and education. It's a far-reaching list of all the socially vulnerable groups of women who experience discrimination and press every day. In time, however, the situation only deteriorates. There are negative stereotypes in society about these people that cause conflict and undue social tension. I hope the Supreme Council will be in solidarity with these principles, with European principles of equality, uphold our decision and vote that in October we will be able to hold these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u89	Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Firemark Sergey Alexanderovich gives the floor to Ungurian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, once again welcome. First of all, I want to thank the initiators for the draft decision. We really need to hold parliamentary hearings about how the state, as a society, as we as a parliament in exercising parliamentary control, can increase the protection of social, moral, physical and protection of all society for our beloved women, for our sisters, for our mothers, for our grandmothers and for all those who have given us life and continue our generations. And I think that the facts that the reporter was giving us are telling us that there really are problems. I would like to remind you that we recently passed a large package of laws on resistance and protection, especially women from manifestations, unfortunately, which are domestic violence and domestic violence. Domestic violence. We have allowed many government authorities to intervene in this situation and change it for the better. At the same time, I want to point out that there are options in Ukrainian legislation such as gender equality. And in the sense of Ukrainian legislation, gender equality as equality of rights and opportunities, the responsibilities of men and women is perfectly normal. But it is abnormal when, under the name of gender equality, gender ideologies are imposed, which is nothing more than the contrast between male and female sex and the imposition of some misunderstanding of 54 genders. This is dangerous because today my colleagues asked me questions and I reflect myself, explaining that equality of rights between men and women is normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u91	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Caprianco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u92	Kuprienka, not Caprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u93	Cooper, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u94	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. The question is rhetorical: Should women be protected? Ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether we will discuss the protection of our women. Remember how the Radical Party passed the bill, and we fought here for our Ukrainian women to retire to their old age. Think of those women’s hands that are 50 years old and similar to Grandma’s hands in the village. We were raised, we were educated, we were sent to a great life by those who had milked the cow, dug the city, dug the potatoes, and raised us with you. Have we forgotten our mothers, our wives, our daughters? We probably haven't forgotten, but we don't think much. By the way, the only political force in Parliament that has clearly implemented gender policy and has half the women's composition on the list of political forces is Oleg Laska's Radical Party. Only we kept it from those parliamentary forces that came to Parliament. So let us mention that the weak sex that supported us, supports us, and is our dependable backdrop, needs our attention and concern, needs protection. And parliamentary hearings are perhaps the least that we can do to gather around the highest public rostrum, raise painful problems and find ways to solve them. Dear colleagues! Let's not be indifferent to our women. We'll support and protect it. Let us not be ashamed to look into the eyes of a mother, a wife, a daughter, a granddaughter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u95	Colleagues! Now it's a closing statement from the Opposition Block. Then we go to the vote. And I ask everyone to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now, please, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u96	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block supports the need to hold parliamentary hearings to prevent and combat discrimination against women of particularly vulnerable categories. We must note that today virtually every woman has found herself in a vulnerable category. We believe that it is very important to look at these parliamentary hearings, and what has happened in the last four years with a woman, how on the one hand the authorities have declared European values, and on the other hand, in fact, the gap between a man and a woman has widened considerably over the last four years. Discrimination against women in Ukrainian society has increased considerably over the past four years. As it turned out, the first decisions of the government and this parliament were to deprive the child of his birth, to restrict the help of women who were raising children with disabilities, there were so many decisions that hurt, first of all, to strike a woman, a woman who gave birth and raised a child. That's why the Opposition Block will vote in favour of this draft decree and we hope that, as part of these parliamentary hearings, the Supreme Council will give an honest assessment of the work and the last governments and of itself, because many decisions against women have unfortunately been approved by this composition of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u97	The discussion is over. We're moving on to making decisions, so I'm asking you not to leave the room. Colleagues, let's vote, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Please, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination against Women from Vulnerable Social Groups (No. 8082) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote and please support the 8082 as a basis, and in general, we vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:54:50]] For 211 We didn't make it, we didn't make it, I see. Please come into the hall, don't leave the hall. Please invite a fellow MP into the hall. I see voting all the factions just weren't all in the workplace. Please. Out of bed. Please return from your beds to the hall. Vladya, let's support it. So I'm going to put the bill back, and then I'm going to put it to the vote. And first, I'm proposing to go back to voting for the 8082 draft. And I ask everyone to vote carefully and to vote in favour. Please vote, please support. Or we may not return, or we may not return. And that's why I'm putting again the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Prevention and combating discrimination against women of vulnerable social groups" (8082) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:56:25]] For 224 Colleagues, please take up jobs, go back out of bed, it's impossible. So I'm asking you to take up your jobs, and I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Prevention and combating discrimination against women of vulnerable social groups" (No.8082) as a basis and as a whole. Please, everyone, take a good part in the vote, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Be careful, every voice, please. [[11:57:17]] For 239. It's been decided. Colleagues, I want to tell you, we're not going to be able to accept the truth any more, are we? Three minutes. I want to inform you that at 12:30, we will begin to hear information from the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Netherlands and the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Artem Sitnik. The working rules will be as follows: 10 minutes -- report for the reporter, 10 minutes -- questions from the national MPs to the reporter and 25 minutes -- statements from the factions. Together, 45 minutes per report. And we have until 2 p.m. to listen to the information of both Nazar the Cold Man and Artem the Sitnik. So I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to come to the conference room to continue our work. And now, according to the Rules, I'm calling a 30-minute recess, and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I would like to report that yesterday we decided to hear today's Deputy Attorney General, the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to inform you that the Cold Nazar Ivanovich and Petnik Artem Sergiyovich have arrived in the hall and are ready for the report and for the answers to the questions. I also have a call for all the national MPs to be able to hold this debate as constructively as possible so that during this discussion we can get answers to those questions that concern national MPs who are concerned about the Supreme Council. It will also be possible for all factions to speak. And I remind you of the Rules: 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, questions from the people's deputies and 25 minutes, statements from the factions. And I address all factions and national MPs as worthy and constructively as possible to hold this discussion. Are we ready to begin? I don't see too many national MPs. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. And we're starting to listen to information, and I'm inviting you to a report by the Deputy Attorney General, the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Netherlands' Nazar Ivanovich. Nazar Ivanovich, please report in 10 minutes. Please come in! They've blocked the passageway. Please, Nazar Ivanovich. May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u99	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! In carrying out the wishes of the Supreme Council, we are present today to report on the state of affairs in the area of combating corruption in Ukraine, namely, our two law enforcement officers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u100	That is, our two law enforcement agencies are SAP and NABU.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u101	We've been working on this for 2.5 years. in this direction and achieved significant results in 2.5 years. More than 500 tours are registered and investigated, more than 100 prosecutions are sent to court. We have a problem with our sentences. We see that we cannot get sentences. Of course, the issue of the Anti-Corruption Court is very acute, and if it were, there was, I think, Ukraine would have seen significant results in the trial. All of our work is to overcome corruption, to expose it, regardless of what political power or how much it is in our country. And all of these conducts, all of those that have become public, that are not yet public, they only show that there are no untouchable ones for us. All of our steps are procedural, they are very often public, which can be said to be damaging to the investigation very often. But nevertheless, this process is moving. As a special prosecutor, I insist: in the conduct that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau investigates, we must have an overstrengthing evidence base, not a pyar-action, not a detention and show very often in the courts, but, in fact, a documentary, legal basis that should be backed up by evidence. This is the guarantee of quality investigation and quality. and obtaining sentences. More, I think Artem Sergiyovich will complement my speech. He has more statistics today. And I'm going to say one thing that a lot of people want to see the chairs get free, there's a lot going on. But the process in Ukraine is running, the fight against corruption, it's going. Thank you for your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. I'll be done. I want to thank, in fact, the parliamentarians who have adopted a series of anti-corruption laws. And actually, the laws that we now exist and act on. And I'm sure this Supreme Council has done a lot to make our anti-corruption structures work, not just exist on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u102	Thank you. I will give you more time to ask questions, and in these questions we will be able to obtain the answers we have received. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich, for that. Attention! I'm increasing time for questions to 15 minutes. And in those questions, the Special Prosecutor will be able to provide solid answers to these questions that are of concern to the national MPs. Is this accepted, not 10 minutes, but 15 minutes per question? So I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. And I'm asking you to record a question to the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Please hold the recording, please. Danielne Vladislav Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Paul Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u104	Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u105	Nazar Ivanovich, next question to you. The practice of disclosing pre-trial investigation data to the head. The leaders of the newly created law enforcement agencies are, in principle, almost out of order. And this is the next time you're talking about it, it's the disclosure of the data of this investigation. Yesterday on one of the Internet videos, today on YouTube. And I'd like to ask you if you've been investigating how the previous so-called NABA rainstorms were investigated, such as the association of Artem Sergiyovich Sitnika off the record with journalists, where he said a lot of things, including demeaning the honour and dignity of individuals. Has such an investigation been carried out? Have you taken action in this regard? And second moment. You signed recently, your body, headed by you, from the NABU, a memorandum of interaction that should be removed, let's say, friction between your two law enforcement agencies. I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u106	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u107	In view of what we have heard recently, why did you sign it? Whose initiative was this? What does it not work, and what should it do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. In fact, quite often, this is a problem for our newly created structures. We've met, prosecutors have encountered moments of information flow, some kind of investigation and investigation. About your question on the record. I'm informing you that, as far as I know, the Attorney General's Office is investigating criminal conduct, and more information needs to be asked there. I've repeatedly been in letters, including the director of the NABU and the Board of Public Control, to pay attention to strange coincidences in detentions, in resonating cases, when journalists appear strangely in "Feofania" when some other persons appear in detention of one of the former national deputies. And they're making a stream that shouldn't be. And I was confused and confused by that question so far. As to this off the record that you're talking about, I know about it. I listened to him, and all the moments that were there puzzled me. But this criminal conduct is being investigated by the U.K. Attorney General's Office, and I can't tell you what stage it's at right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u110	About the memo. Indeed, because of some misunderstandings between prosecutors and detectives that existed, and I think it's only natural that the detective is not satisfied with the actions of the prosecutor, and the prosecutor is the actions of the detective. This indicates that there is no criminal tandem, according to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, who has not been led to the various offices on the chain, but has a procedural and investigative supervision. And to address these shortcomings, we worked together with the director of the NABU, and we discussed, and we signed this memorandum. By the way, it was the head of the prosecutor's office that fixed the issue of conflict resolution. But very often, disagreement with the decision of the prosecutor led to what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u111	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u112	That these conducts were simply not investigated, and the instructions were not followed. It is, too, and that is the problem. But the memo is, it's formally valid. And we're doing everything we can to get him to work and do it on both sides.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u114	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Deputies! First of all, there is a lot of concern about the fact that the two bodies' opposition undermines confidence in the fight against corruption. I mean, it shouldn't fool us at all. The cleansing of the law enforcement agencies themselves from unclean workers is an important process. Now for a question to Mr. Special Prosecutor. Do you support the content of the messages that were published last night on "Citizen" and in "Ukrainian Truth", which sets out the content of your meetings, including with the prodigals of the city of Vishnuy, including with the national MPs, and discusses helping them avoid responsibility or searches, and in this way the actual transition to the defendant's side instead of defending the interests of the state? And who do you see as your successor after the investigation can reach its conclusion? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u115	Mr. Leschenko, I see you as the successor. [[Applause]] That's the first one. The other one. The second question. There's a lot of people out there who want to speculate on records. Now let's put the dots on "and." For two years, both SAP and SAP have been trying to discredit me. Discredit and say someone's not like that. Why? Because, Mr. Sergey, I was against some kind of analytical help replacing your apartment with $350,000. I was against it and I wasn't introduced to the ERDF, but I'll let you know that, yes, late is better late than never, it's registered. And I'm waiting for the investigation to come to an end. Because income and expenditure analysis doesn't allow you to buy an apartment in downtown Kiev. That's two. Third. That's different. I want to remind you that, among other things, I'm not just the head of the SAP, I'm the procurator of a lot of conducts, including in the building, as you say, according to Vishnu. And I'm sorry, but when a contractor who pays taxes, who builds apartments, thousands, not Elita-Centre, who's willing to cooperate with the investigation, comes in and says, "I'll give you all the information you need, where they're trying to impose a crime composition, that a person who's not the owner of this apartment they promise to give, but she's bound to own it." And when I, as a prosecutor, as a trial manager, communicate with a witness who is not suspected, Sergei, with a witness who actually owns this apartment, where they just want to tie both the city's head and an assistant to one of the deputies from the Radical Party. I can't go to court with my imagination. And after that, and after everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u116	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u117	And the audio that was made, I'm willing to comment on every word I say. As a prosecutor, I am prepared to comment as a trial director in my conduct. And I'll do it. What's been published is a good game for the public, a slice of every word. I want to see the whole recording, especially when you came and just went into the stupid, sorry word, took a bucket of searches into a businessman, into a person who builds apartments, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u118	All right, 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u119	And to me, as prosecutor, I say, "Prosecutor, what is the purpose of this search? – and he can't explain, it's a pressure on business. And if we're talking about masks-shows-stop, we should do it not by word of mouth, but by deed. And I'm going to do everything I can to make the show masks really stop, not terrorize businessmen who pay taxes in the country's budget, and in the forums, you tell them that, invest, we'll protect you. In fact, with your left hand to invest and your right hand to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Colleagues! When "questions-answers" comes up, I can't give a line because everyone's talking to everyone, so it's not easy. I'm from the Radical Party giving my word for a question. Amelchenko gives it to Oleg Lashkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Mr. Coldsky, I think a lot of businessmen would like you to give them personal advice as your friend-in-law from Vishnu. But not every businessman can come into your office. And today you stand in the highest parliamentary rostrum and actually admit that you have committed a crime. That you invite your friend into your office, you tell him how to hide what he has to say in the investigation. And the person who calls himself an anti-corruption prosecutor, who gets 200,000 wages paid to Ukrainians, you're justifying violations of legislation from the higher parliamentary rostrum. When you started your report, you said you needed an anticorruption court and then there would be justice. What about those judges you called? Why are you turning them into corrupt courts? When you use telephone rights, when you give orders to the prosecution’s subordinates to withdraw a sanction. When you're ordering authority, you're breaking criminal cases. When you received the title of General, the title of "Deserved Lawyer", Vice President of the Football Federation of Ukraine. What's the matter
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u122	Is there gonna be a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u123	Please, Oleg Valeriyovich. 30 seconds, please. 30 seconds Easy to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u124	See, you didn't hear the question. So let me tell you again. What do you miss for happiness? General's office, you're 30 years old. The title "Deserved Lawyer" is not clear what President Dustenk gave us. You advise your business friends, you give personal advice in your office. What do you lack for happiness, and do you feel sorry for the fish that listened to your stupidity?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u125	Nazarius Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u126	For my happiness, I lack a house in Kozina and a lottery ticket, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u127	Didic gives the question a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u128	Unfortunately, it's just an apartment in Vishnu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u129	Didic gives the floor to Kupri's question. Please, People's Deputies of Cupray.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Come on, please. Dear colleagues, I've been thinking for a long time about what question to ask Mr. Nazar, and I would still like to ask you now, not ask. With the aim of halting the defamatory coverage of corruption by the director of the NABU, Artem Sitnik. In my address, I analyzed my history of correspondence with him, including the claim of criminal offences on behalf of the MPs. 150 cases that I've pointed out, what's going on, the shame that's being stolen, billions in our country: both Prashenko, and Lucenko, and Gontareva, and whoever there is, but only one case of reaction is one. Well, it's not the D.A.'s office now, I understand. It's the one who doesn't report the crimes first. Even in the courts, dozens of court decisions that are found guilty by the director of the NABU are registered, but no witnesses are questioned, no property is arrested, nothing is happening. I believe that Artem Sitnik is covering corruption in Ukraine, I demand of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u131	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u132	I demand that you submit appropriate information to the GDR in order to ensure and bring it to criminal responsibility, and yet to ensure that this body is fully operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u133	All statements that contain information about the signs of crime will be submitted to the GDR, if the NAB does not do so, the SAP will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Victoria Juryevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u135	Dear Nazar Ivanovich, I would like to start by saying that I am extremely sorry to read all the news that is currently in the press. As a lawyer, I always thought that the following anti-corruption authorities should cooperate with the anti-corruption prosecutor. And it is the continuation of your cooperation that should be the fair and just decision of the Anti-Corruption Court. But if this continues to happen in our anti-corruption bodies, I can say that no Anti-Corruption Court will help you. But I'd like to ask you, have you read the disciplinary complaint yet? And ask you to comment on at least one of the episodes cited in this disciplinary complaint, let's say the episode with Ulya Suprun and her statement, which actually happened there, if you say there are certain slices, you can please tell us what really happened, what really happened, what was the incision? And to prove here in Parliament that all these facts that have come out now are unreliable information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. All of my position and all of her denial of those cuts and full text will be given to the Qualifications Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors. I don't think we need to explore this in the parliamentary rostrum. I vouch for every word, for every purpose, not by word, but by deed. And no matter who it is, it wasn't closed or destroyed, but to show one fragment and not show the other, it's a little bit wrong. And at the CSD meeting, I'm going to prove it, and we're going to listen to all the fragments. Yes, I admit there may have been uncensored swearing. I'm sorry, but in our country, I can't handle the white gloves of the corruption swamp. That's how it is. It's my weakness. Excuse me, please. But every word I have said and every action that follows these words shows that I have tried, and I will try to do my best to bring about a logical conclusion, not to impose the blame, including on the assistants of the national deputies and the city’s heads, where it is impossible to present it, as well as on suspicion. We've been playing around with suspicions, and we've been scattered to the right and to the left, unfortunately. And then instead of bringing cases to trial, we see years of investigation. Because it turns out there's no expertise, it turns out there's a second. But people are already attracted, people are burned, including honor and dignity. I don't want to work like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u137	And, colleagues, final question, Vadim Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u138	Dear Nazar Ivanovich! I'm sorry, you remember me, I've come to you a few times. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, absolutely not. That's my question. You know, it's sad, of course, that these two serious revenges on which the whole of Ukraine hoped are in a state of conflict. I don't know what the argument is, but I think you're going to decide and come to a normal consensus for Ukraine. We're spending a lot of money. But I have more of an earthly question. I'm from Zaporozhye County, and you know, that's where I am. It's about the untouchable Sheik of Igor, yes. Head of the district hospital, who. On it, if I say so myself, it's a symbol of corruption in the Zaporozhye region. Angiographer, where they stole 10 million, repairs to the food cloud, laparoscopic stand, ambulance, and absolutely no end and no end. Him. I think he's going in there and he's totally invulnerable. Do you understand? Has he already stolen as much as he can handle all the questions, or do I not know? Maybe him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u139	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u140	From the position you're in. Everyone. It's just to find out there's an angiograph that costs 300,000 dollars, that's all that's known, it's bought for a million dollars. There's a Swiss firm where they bought this angiographer. Please wrap around there for days. There's people in Amsterdam flying here today, and tomorrow in Amsterdam. You know, yeah. And find out with this angiographer about the firm that sold it. And it's not that we're losing funding for the N.A.U.U.U. and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u141	No, it's not. Please, Nazar Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u142	We actually have a lead on Zaporozhye County Hospital Chief Doctor Shiszki, as I recall, I can be wrong now, but an episode that's almost finished seems to be either in 290 or referred to court. I understand. But we took her out of Zaporozhye district, where she would, frankly, rot and die. We restored it because we see a crime scene there. And now I am not ready to answer the matter specifically, but I remember that there seems to be a total of 290 articles there. That's the end of the investigation. [[B in m in s a l in]] We got acquainted with the materials, yeah. And if there are other facts, please give me always open to every conversation. And the national MPs know that under the law I have no right to forbid them not to go to the prosecutor's office, and you use that right very often.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Question time is complete. Thank you, Nazar Ivanovich, you may return to your seat. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, now come from factions and groups. And I ask all the factions and groups who want to participate in the discussion to record. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] After that. I've explained the Rules several times, and I'll explain it again: first information on. Cold, then Sitnik, separate block. This is 45 minutes, and 45 minutes is an hour and a half, we're on our way. Please log in. So the first one for the performance is the representative of the Peter Prashenko bloc, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u144	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We've just heard the position of Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and we're about to hear the position of Head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Now I want to remind my colleagues that three years ago -- yes, three years ago -- thanks to the initiative of the President of Ukraine, because this initiative in this Parliament was supported by a really powerful infrastructure to fight corruption. I also want to remind you of another very important moment. It was three years ago that almost all the monopoly on corruption was transferred to these authorities. And you know, whenever the anti-corruption laws pass through this hall, Peter Dustenka's Block gives the most votes. But obviously, all of us expected it, and society expected it to work together for a common purpose, for the NAB and for the SAP to work for the team. But what do we see today? We can see that these destructive processes and conflicts between organ leaders go completely beyond overcoming corruption, and more than that, these public conflicts are a major blow to society's trust in structures on which huge hopes have been relied upon, and in this time the corruptionists are clapping their hands. I would also like to say, do you understand, Mr. Coldsky and Mr. Sitnik, that this conflict and this public relationship-recognizance are causing irreparable damage to the international reputation of the newly created anticorruption structures, and in the meantime, the image of Ukraine in the international sphere suffers. We clearly believe that the key word when we talk about the work of any anti-corruption body is efficiency. And you know, I'd just like to compare, as I said, almost three years ago, the almost complete monopoly on corruption investigation went right to the NAB and the SAP. It's easy to test any person in this country, according to legislation, and everyone in this room knows that. But how many real decisions do we see in the courts? I think it's either zero or almost zero. In spite of this, the Attorney General’s Office, which has many questions, has received a thousand 700 sentences in the courts. Another question of effectiveness: how much money has returned to the country's state budget and is directed to medicine, to the army, to our military? The D.A. has returned more than 50 billion dollars to the state budget, which is easy to verify. That's how much money came back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u145	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u146	Thanks to the newly created anti-corruption bodies? I think, well, God forbid they reach a million. And I would like to ask you one big request, first of all, to assess the effectiveness of your work. And the others. When we talk about efficiency, there's a question that's not only mature in this Parliament, it's mature, it's a question of choosing an NAB audience. And here I propose that the hall gather and support this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u147	Thank you. From "The will of the people" to "The will of the people" is invited to the floor by Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Out of place, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u148	It's a cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u149	Cooper's got a word for it. Three minutes to go. From the place, right, Vitaly? Please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I'd like to read a document that came to me from Detective NABU (I won't call whom), but it shows how the work with potential victims is happening. And then I'd like to ask Mr. Sitnik if that's what the FBI teaches them. For example, it is recommended that, in order to take a "hook" victim, it is recommended, for example: first, to provoke an accident near the person's residence, during the discussion of the circumstances of the accident to establish contact, and, as an excuse, to offer a visit to the restaurant, a pub; if possible, to arrange a trip to a strip club, a massage parlor with the care of its person in the facility; during rest, to take a photo fixation; to examine the figure, to report the matter, with positive results, to document the circumstances of the wrong benefit, to demonstrate to the person the collected material. That's one option. The second option is to stage a person's mugging, intervene and interfere during the robbery, as in the previous paragraph. The third option is to provoke a girl-leading accident, mostly near the person's place of residence, make contact, get the person as interested as possible, set up a meeting; explore the person, push the person closer, take a photofixion, if it's necessary to ensure the presence of a friend; show the person the material collected. Fourth: Create a personal page on the Facebook social network with an attractive girl, introduce a person. Here's the material. I would very much like society to know how such an organ works. Many people say that this is true. If we have a surface. Why am I saying this? We have a lot of crimes on the surface that involve the theft of state property, a lot of tenders that are defeated by companies that do damage that offer higher prices than their opponents. A lot of situations where we see illegal influences, court decisions, ownership, including land affairs, anything. But I don't do it, I don't do it at all. It's looking for where you can get a hook, and it's nice to write it down, put a girl in there, get a drink, and then show us all this on TV. And it is also desirable against the national MP. I think it's wrong, it's a completely unsuspecting activity of anti-corruption bodies. There's a lot of facts now. I told you about 150 cases. which I've just pointed out, which can be investigated without the use of cases like this, which are then complained of easily, and then in the courts, everything breaks down. Please take this situation into account for all the deputies. Perhaps we should raise the issue of the resignation of the director of the NAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u151	Thank you. From the People's Front to the show, George Logwinsky is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u152	Well, my dear friends, I welcome you all. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'd like to cover the curtain a little bit to make it clear what Mr. Sitnik and Mr. Cold is hiding. It's going to be something that's not easy. You say MPs go to law enforcement. Please tell me, dear friends, and these are the new law enforcement agencies that we've created, are they somehow different from the old ones? Do we not receive the number of complaints, the high number of complaints of wrongdoing that are taking place in society today? Has society experienced any changes? Let me ask you another question. Tell me, please, what no one is in violation of, that then the things that I, as the deputy head of the committee, am obliged to respond to, and therefore in writing, am not telling anyone that there is a witness to the person who says that I have met in Paris in the restaurant with persons who are partners of the ARC head Crimea Konstantinov and have offered money for the discovery of criminal conduct, have been offered more for the very purpose of attacking Mr. Logwinsky, who is seriously interfering with the Crimea. And this testimony is found in the materials of criminal conduct. And after that, this is going to the NAB. Interestingly, there may be a coincidence. What's more, dear friends, I'd like to ask you something else. And what you're not revealing is that when it comes to criminal conduct, which is the Ministry of Justice, a large number of surnames, there was an analytical analysis of the most important human rights organizations in the UGSPL (Ukrainian Helsinki Association of Human Rights) and the Kharkiv Justice Group, where individuals, real defenders, some of them were behind bars during the Soviet Union, concluded that someone deliberately manipulates the facts, undermines the authority of the state. And this is the conclusion that Mr. Eugene Zaharov wrote to the NABU and the SAP, which stated that we do not want to undermine the authority of these organizations, the new anti-corruption bodies, but we ask you to take immediate action in the prosecution's response because you are violating human rights. But how wonderful to compromise. Now anti-corruption bodies against lawyers, against lawyers. By the way, I'd like to remind you. You were talking about the so-called "mask-show, stop!".. I'm sorry, but you don't. That's why, Mr. Sitnik, we invited you. You've met on our committee of attorneys.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u153	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u154	I'm a figureman. So I'm asking you to let me finish. That's why the lawyers, the council of lawyers, have filed a complaint that the unsubstantiated information that it is the NABU -- I don't know, whether it's the procurator's sanction or not -- is listening to the defenses of every criminal act. Which court will you go to later? Please tell me, what international agency is going to accept this? So, dear friends, if we create a new body that we respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, three minutes. I'm adding 30 seconds to everyone to give you 30 seconds to finish. Ten seconds last.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u156	That's why, dear friends, it's not a war against me, it's a war against lawyers, defenders. And I would like to point out that, dear friends, if we're going to make some kind of hand-defendant now or.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u157	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Yegor Soboljeva of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u158	I mean, I'm actually proud of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Even the small fact that the two leaders, at the first invitation of Parliament, came to answer our questions means respect for society, for parliamentary control is an instrument of society. And today, every citizen, including those present here, can draw his own conclusions. Our conclusions are as follows. Without doubt, the team of Artem Sitnik and Nazar of the Cold Man did a huge job by breaking a circular message in Ukraine. And in this room there are people who have become objects of their investigation and are objects of their investigation, and they will be objects of their investigation. Have there been any such people in the President's Office, in the government, in all the high offices? Those people did what we gave them the laws for and why we gave them taxpayers' money. I fully agree with the idea that those who take responsibility to destroy top-corruption themselves should be whiter than snow. And I think that the investigation of this story should be conducted according to all the standards. Not according to what was done in the office of the deputy minister of the interior with the involvement of the son of the minister of the interior. It's not like we're currently investigating records that Alexander Oneshenko did in Peter Dustenk's office. By the way, the testimony of Alexander Oneshchenka is a direct result of the work of the Anticorruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office. The direct result is that they broke the circular message. I'm responsible for making everyone responsible, in this story, determined and accountable. But I would like to ask Parliament to understand what a great responsibility we have now. Now there's a lot of people, especially top-corruptioners, who dream of oppressing the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and making the Anti-Corruption Bureau immobilized. Because the law is so prescribed that without the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, NABU detectives will find it very difficult to work. So I urge Parliament to focus on our work. Make them a real and independent Anti-Corruption Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u159	Thank you. From the unification of Fatherland, I invite you to the words of the national deputy Sergio Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u160	I'm not talking to this room. I'm talking to Mr. Sitnik and Mr. Cold. If you are not taught anything by history, take the material back in 1993, when the first national revolution broke out, this hall appointed Victor Shishkin as Ukraine’s Attorney General. The national deputy of Haisinsky was appointed the first deputy. Take a look at all the materials that came to an end. That's exactly what happened in the President's office, the Attorney General of the time. When they were eaten with skulls and fought with each other, not with corruption. I would like to ask you a favor. Knock down the cord with the President's Administration and the powder room. This is the first thing you should have done, on the first day you sat down in these rooms. Throw away the phones that connect you to Dusty and any other officer. Don't take any people's deputies, shut them down. What do you have to do with the people's deputies in your offices? Do they have any questions? Request, request, respond only in writing, and copy only in writing with your subordinates. You don't have the right to give them instructions -- that's the key question for this state. Don't you see what makes you a mockery of those who cover themselves with high-level mandates or presidential or parliamentary or governmental mandates and do everything they can to keep the matter from being investigated? This is a call to you, this is a call to Parliament and including you, immediately make proposals to this room to complement your procedural and political independence with exactly that independence of your subjects. Excuse me, or if an SAP employee, or if an NAB employee comes with materials, he should not listen to your advice, he should act by law and this should be the point. We're about to make sure that everything that happened in this session hall, when we were actually assigning new organs and laying down rules for the game, was not just kept on paper to make it happen in life. Whoever continues to be president, whoever is not the national deputy, the prime minister, do one thing, stop listening to them, listen to your conscience, obey the law, and then there will be no situation that will allow any doubt to the citizens of Ukraine about the struggle against corruption in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u161	Thank you. And last of all, I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, you are looking at the action that is taking place in Parliament, and my question to the anti-corruption prosecutor that he is dreaming of. My point is, the anti-corruption prosecutor said his dream was a house in Kozin and you're gonna win the lottery. So the person who gets 200,000 dollars of wages on your account, by the way, judging by your declaration, you can buy a few houses, and you can already realize your dream. But the Ukrainians didn't assign you to see houses and wins in pink dreams. Ukrainians pay you space wages to really fight corruption, not to order power. The Ukrainians assigned you and gave you the maximum independence to be a model of lawfulness. The material published by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Attorney-General's Office indicate that you are far from the rule of law. Because when you let your friends tell you how they should handle things, when you give commands to press the court to make decisions that we can talk about? But we're told, let's pick and make an Anti-Corruption Court and then there'll be a real fight against corruption. Dear colleagues, do you not understand why the Cold Man needs anti-corruption courts? To be on the phone with the team, who they're closing up against, who they're opening up against, and without a right to complain. We had those courts that had forgotten in 1937 when people were tried and shot on the same day without the right to complain. A specialized anti-corruption prosecutor except for the salary paid to the Ukrainians by 200,000 a month. Not the builders, not the miners, not the teachers, not the doctors, but you were given such cosmic wages. In addition, the President gave you an advance: the title of the general, the title of a well - deserved lawyer, and the mass of other preferences, and direct contact with him. How did you benefit from this confidence of the Ukrainians? You lied to them, you lied to them. And this is evidence that high wages are not a panacea of corruption -- a panacea of corruption is primarily a conscience and a responsibility to people who trust you. The panacea of corruption is the harshest, dragon's responsibility. In any country of the world, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor would have retired long after the charges had been made public, and this one comes out as the lice behind the coat. It also simulates the fight against corruption. Why didn't you break the case against Lechchenk two years ago when he bought that apartment? Why did you break it today when you got stuck under your ass? That's the whole selective fight against corruption. Although what he did was right. It's been a while. So in conclusion, the Radical Party offers a real fight against corruption: the restoration of justice in the judicial system, the reelection of all judges and prosecutors -- to free all the old and to get new ones. And remember, there are no angels working in these organs, but devils with horns, and we see it in the cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u163	Before I go to Artem Sergiyovich's report, I want to make two remarks. First. I ask respect for both the rapporteurs and I ask respect for the national deputies of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that when a negative name is mentioned, I am forced to give a reply. So try to avoid these methods during the presentations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Igor. Colleagues, attention, I'm giving you one minute. Then we go to the report of Petnik Artem Sergiyovich. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u164	Dear Ukrainians, it is a great honor for me that my apartment has become a universal vendetta. Two years in the country, the war is unfinished, the economy is falling, people are mass emigrating, and they're putting my apartment in your face as a universal bill, because they're political impostors and corrupters. Secondly, Mr. Prosecutor, take responsibility for your actions. [[B in m in s a l in]] As far as my apartment is concerned. The Cave Court placed a dot there without finding any violation, and the appeal brought that decision into force. As far as my apartment is concerned, the Attorney General's Office has closed the article on the absence of an incident and the composition of the crime. And you'd better answer for your apartment, which somehow turned up in the same house that you were avenging the builder. For some reason it happened by accident that you are living exactly where the builder tried to bribe the minister of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u165	So the discussion is over, and I'm now moving on to the second part of our hearing, and I invite you to the report of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Petnik Artem Sergiyovich. Please, Artem Sergiyovich. And I would like to stress once again, in the answers to avoid personal references. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u166	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me to speak from the high parliamentary rostrum and to report on the circumstances, events, and matters of interest to the Ukrainian people to Parliament. Before I briefly say what was done in those years after the creation of anti-corruption bodies, I would like to thank Parliament for adopting the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine Act. [[Applause]] And I would like to thank Parliament for the subsequent amendments to the Procurator's Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish if I can. Thank you for adopting the Anti-Corruption Act. on amending the Procurator's Act because the creation of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office actually saved the National Anti-Corruption Bureau from overseeing the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. And this is actually. The hot debates that are now under way confirm that we are, as Parliament is meant, referring to the Anti-Corruption Bureau team, creating a truly independent apolitical body that is now working effectively. Predicting some questions about where's the verdict?"we've been talking for two years about the fact that without the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court there will be no judgment. There will be no judgment! [[B in m in s a l in]] Given that I wanted to build up my performance by presenting some of the indicators of our work, but listening to the questions, listening to these discussions, I would like to say and start with the second part of my report. If anyone wants to say that there is some kind of conflict, I'm telling you in a responsible way that there is no conflict between the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And how many. You can do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! There is some criminal conduct, there are certain materials that are now transferred to the competent authorities. If this is the case with the Criminal Code, this has been referred to the Attorney General’s Office, as far as disciplinary conduct is concerned, it has been transferred to the prosecution’s commission for disciplinary offences. And so you don't have to speculate on this process, there's no conflict. Today, today, detectives of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, specialized anti-corruption prosecutors, are now working on a state-of-the-art regime, and if anyone wants to say that fighting corruption is stopped is not true, it's manipulation. Because now, if you look at it, you're going to promote the information space in March of the month, and in March of the month, a number of resonating cases are being referred to the court and these cases are more than the last two places before that. So as we move on to the work of the Anticorruption Bureau, a few words were meant to say about the investigations that we are conducting. To date, more than 100 criminal acts have been conducted in court, including in relation to individuals sitting in this room. And for every case I personally as a lawyer, as head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, I am responsible for the fact that there is sufficient evidence and evidence in this case, in my opinion, as a lawyer enough to pass an indictment. At the same time, judges who are willing to listen to these cases are unfortunately not created in Ukraine. So when I take the opportunity to speak from this rostrum, I reiterate that we have approached the solution. And now we don't have to speculate on some fictional conflict, how someone wants to submit it to the Parliamentary Chamber, but let's go back to constructive conversation, to the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. And Mr. Cupray has already said about it. And some national MPs have said about illegal listening, reminding you that we have been for two years, for two years we have been asking Parliament to adopt a law that will allow us to download information from the communications channels on our own. Now what you're saying, we don't even have the theoretical ability to do. [[Noise Nodes]] Now, given that there are enough figures in the room who will be trying to do some provocations right now, I've finished my speech. I'd love to answer those questions. I'll give you more time to answer your questions and I'll be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u167	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm also giving 15 minutes to ask, and then speaking from factions, just like in the previous record. So 15 minutes for questions from the national MPs. Anyone who wishes to ask a question, please take part in the record and please sign up. Please. Carpunts Valerius Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u168	Dear Artem Sergiyovich! I'm here, on your right hand. Question of the next character. One of the causes of society’s disappointments was that after the Dignity Revolution, for example, the illustration of the innocent and the misrepresentation of the guilty; the presence of those who not only shared the values of the Dignity Revolution but sometimes were with us on the other side of the barricade. That's the question of the next character. Please tell the media that someone who was the personal guardian of Kurchenka is working for you in the NABU. Please tell me, could this somehow be related to the fact that the information is leaking fairly quickly about all the events that the Attorney General's Office is leading with regard to the return of one and a half billion, and under the leadership of Yuri Lucenka, they have been returned, and the unwillingness of the NAB to cooperate in this episode? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u169	I don’t know what the claim is that there is a reluctance to work in NABU. This is the sole responsibility of the Attorney General. But I would like to point out that a number of NABA claims have been made on the grounds that these actions were illegal. The court has obliged us to start investigating these facts - we are conducting this investigation. Therefore, we will not share the responsibility of the Attorney General for the actions that have already been done. All the staff of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, apart from the deputies, held an open competition, a public one, in the selection of the staff of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Representatives of the public took part. They were all undergoing a special inspection. So there were no obstacles to the appointment of anyone at the NABU during the competition. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u170	Thank you. Jurik Taras Zinovovich
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Rick Tetya.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u172	Ritchkova, 27th District, Dnipro City. Artem Sergiyovich, please tell us that NABU, together with the SAP, have found a component of the crime in the declarations of a number of national MPs. So why don't you see the crime in Colomoysky's actions that brought 150 billion dollars out of the country? And when will the investigation on this issue begin? That's the first one. Second, taxpayers. You are charged with a small salary of 150,000 dollars at the expense of taxpayers. That's another question for me. How do you explain the presence of two houses in elite Concha-Zasp and three prestigious cars in the family of so-called secret agent Catherine? Where did UBZ’s family come from, and now WE’VE got this kind of wealth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. About the Private Bank. Unfortunately, colleagues. People's deputies didn't give me a chance to speak and talk about it. The amount of damage that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau has now set aside is over 150 billion dollars. This is what has been stolen since the Revolution. The left-hand side of these funds is the funds that were withdrawn from the Privatbank. I have talked about this investigation on many occasions. This investigation refers to both the Privatbank management and their possible illegal activities prior to nationalisation, and this investigation also applies to employees of the National Bank of Ukraine who may be involved in illegal acts in the nationalization of Private Bank. And this investigation is ongoing. It's extremely complicated because you know that Private Bank is actually a financial pyramid that's been built for years. And that's impossible to investigate in a day. So this investigation is going. To predict when there will be suspicions and they will be there, I can't now, because this investigation is also related to a large number of international legal missions. With regard to the property of our unspoken coworker. It's actually some kind of manipulation. That's not true. It's not her property. And this property has nothing to do with it. And I'm going to say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] And once again, if you have specific questions about competitive selection, although this competitive selection is described in detail on the NABA website, ask me, I will gladly answer it. Therefore, there is no need to manipulate and quote what the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine would like to quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u174	Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u175	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Mr. Artem, for today's performance. And also as a member of the Ohmatdit Trust Board, I want to thank all the detectives who have returned equipment to Ohmatdit for 3 million euros, which other law enforcement agencies have failed to do before. But I have a question for you. Because after the Dignity Revolution, we all fought here to build independent anti-corruption institutions. And I'm the author of giving you independence to listen to court decisions so that you can technically conduct your investigations and not depend on the BSP. I also believe that we must fulfill our responsibility to assign audits and test your activities, but some factions are not obliged to impose different candidates. And I would also like to say that we will support the Anti-Corruption Court under the conditions that there are. And it's a real shame that after the Orange Revolution, there's a lot of people who haven't taken advantage of this opportunity to take over Yanukovic's regime. And I don't want a chance to be lost again after the Dignity Revolution. And so your independence is your country's independence. Now the question is, how do you estimate the losses that have been incurred by the SAP manager? And the second. Do you see a threat?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u176	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u177	First question. Losses recorded by the SAP manager are investigated. And do you see any threats to the management’s early release? And how will you continue to provide? And of course I would like people like Truhanov, people like Rotterdam+, Ahmetov and many others, Pinchuk, Medvedchuk, to sit down sooner or later. Because in all the factions and what you're doing, in all the factions, and I understand why you're asking questions like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u178	Thank you for asking. I'd like to go back to what I've already said, we as the Anti-Corruption Bureau are really working without regard for any political element. And this is our joint merit with Parliament, because Parliament has passed such a law that has made it possible to act really apolitically, and it is a matter for all factions. So I realize that certain questions have to do with this. With regard to Truhanov’s work, everyone knows the situation and, sadly, that the aunts again appear before the courts cannot, there, be overlooked. With regard to the work of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the work of the SAP. I want to say again that today is a day of regular work for detectives and prosecutors. Nothing bad happened, the fight against corruption, how someone wants it, there, to describe it, hasn't stopped. At the same time, we can't silence those facts about certain, there, illegal actions of anyone even if it's an employee of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. We're going to be equal to anyone, whether it's a national MP, whether it's an anti-corruption prosecutor, whether it's a detective at the Anti-Corruption Bureau, or whether it's a member of the Attorney General's Office. So, having felt all the risks, which, there may be after certain decisions, the only guarantee of preserving the independence of these organs, as Mr. Logwinsky has rightly said, is to comply exclusively with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law. It's the only recipe that allows me to speak now and to give a decent answer to all the questions and to look directly into anyone's eyes in this room and not just in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u180	Yuri Solovay. Dear Mr. Petnik, you said that the main reason why there are no convictions is the guilty courts. But I have, the honourable head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, reasonable grounds to believe that it's not the courts, and the evidence gathered in an insufficient and legal way is one of the reasons why the courts refuse the Anti-Corruption Bureau to satisfy these cases. More. But I have two specific questions. An anticorruption body of the highest must be fundamental to upholding the law. I have two questions. First. Was it when you installed the bugs in the Cold Man, the appropriate decision of the court? And the second. Why the Anti - Corruption Bureau in all criminal matters grossly violates CPC, 36, 39, and 40 articles that reveal the secret of the investigation before the judgment of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u181	Thank you for asking. Your introduction to the question is manipulation. Because no excusable judgment was brought against the courts. The question is in the second. And I didn't say that the courts were guilty, I said that the courts couldn't handle the workload. Because, if you'll excuse me, the district court, which was created before the creation of the NABU, is not ready for 20 deputies to come to court and press for trial, and three acting ministers are coming. That's why I'm not saying that the courts are guilty. I'm talking about the need to create a specialized institution whose judges will have guarantees of independence and guarantees of security. Because those judges who have aunts standing by the courts, they don't have those guarantees right now. So they're not guilty, they don't have the ability to listen to these things, and this is confirmed by the practice of looking into our cases in court. That's what we're talking about. I reiterate that in order for us, thanks to you, to have guarantees of independence, first and foremost, guarantees of political independence. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u182	Thank you. Thank you. Did you not complete your answer? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u183	If you have concrete examples of the movements of NABA detectives, I'll be happy to study it and evaluate it. But these are simple words that are constantly echoing but constantly echoing without proper evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u185	Once again, compliance with the requirements of the law is the only guarantee of our independence. And accordingly, all the actions that have been done before and after that, they will only be done according to the law. And the decision of the court on these actions, of course, was what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u187	Ivan Sporish. I'm asking you to pass on the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u188	Good afternoon! You know how I, many deputies and Ukrainian people very much, let's say, got all those masks in the show, when you first do theater performances with plays and videos, and then very little. And it's not just about you, it's about some pseudo-activists who don't have money, it's about buying Porsche Kayena or those who have foreign grants and are agents of external influence, like the other Grantoids, almost the other half of one faction. But I am very concerned that you, like many others, do not become agents of external influence. If Mr. Coldsky is now being accused of publicizing the investigation, it seems to me that this question is not objective because you were directly involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u189	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u190	When you were showing a video with your secret meeting with journalists, when you were also giving appropriate materials the indiscretion of trace-search actions. Would you please give me an evaluation on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u191	I want to emphasize, I've already said that the materials that relate to this incident are passed on to the competent authorities and the NAB will not evaluate here because we don't have that kind of authority. As for the so-called mask-show, I'm sorry, I'm just going to give one example, when we used to be the head of one of Ukraine's fiscal authorities trying to get to court, we were actually lying under a car and impeding the execution of justice. And the problem is not in the mask show, but the problem is that both justice and trial participants are under constant pressure or pressure. And these attempts are so cynical that sooner or later we need to evaluate them. So I also want to emphasize that if we're talking, of course, I'm assuming that we're a young organ, a young team, and maybe we're doing something wrong, and we're going to be grateful that someone is going to point us out and we're going to correct them. But I wanted to give you an answer about the audit, and for more than a year, it has to be in Parliament. So, colleagues, when you go to the vote there for a certain audience, I want to say that we're not afraid of auditing and we're ready for any audit, and we're ready to answer for that job that's been done for the last two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u192	Thank you. So, Herasimov Arthur passes the word for Paul Pinzenik's question, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u193	Artem Sergiyovich, a very short, specific question, and I ask you to give the same short and specific answer. Last March, your employee named Kariev demanded the Central Electoral Commission to access the voter's only register. The Central Election Commission has found its strength and sent you anywhere else, so please tell me, in spirit, as a journalist of "Ukrainian Truth," or as an ambassador of the Western State, why do you have access to the One State Register of Voters? It's only fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u194	It's a shame to hear the expression "sent away," maybe it's not entirely ethical if it's applied to a government official. I want to remind you of the position of the NABA Act, which was adopted again in this room. NABU has the right to direct access to all bases and registers of public authorities. Why? We've opened up access to more than 30 registers, including the question of access to this register, because we have the right to do so. We have the right to do so. If you have one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait if you have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, we have the right to access these registers and we are implementing this right under the law, which is my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u195	Thank you. And the final question from the People's Front is the Fireplace of Taras Dmitrovich. Surrenders Yuri Berezi, a questionable word. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u196	Mr. Director, Mr. Director! I have a question. Mr. Director. I'm the head of the Defense Department subcommittee, and I have a lot of questions about your structure regarding the Ukrainian Armed Forces, first of all. The first question is why, despite my repeated references to the activities of previous defence ministers, of Yanukovic's time, still, after the Ukrainian army was ripped apart. You don't have any realisations, and you don't have any business. All my questions remain unanswered is the first question. And the second question. It's about the last of the shows under your direction, which is about 12,000 liters of fuel that. It's a case you've broken. And for today, that's me. I can also see to my conviction that fuel was purchased at a lower price. And to this day the Armed Forces have not received them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u197	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u198	I'm sorry if you lose in court, and I have no doubt about it, at what cost will you compensate the Armed Forces of Ukraine for these losses, and how will you view the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian soldiers in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u199	Thank you for asking. In answer to that question, I would like to say that unfortunately, the resources of NABU are not enough to give maximum attention to the defence sector. If anyone in this room right now says there's no corruption, it's gonna be a lie, and we're doing it. When it comes to past periods, I'm ready to answer your question, but I think there's guidance in past periods. So every defence sector issue is accompanied by comments that we're tearing down the state, that we're destroying the defence sector. In fact, it's a manipulation that. the purpose of which is to hide those corruption schemes that exist there, and we will investigate them despite these provocative issues and statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u200	Thank you. So, colleagues, a minute of repulsion for George Logwinsky, please. I. Artem Sergiyovich, thank you, time for questions is up. They're about to come out of factions. One minute, Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u201	I wanted to thank Mr. Sitnik very much for supporting me in the issue of compliance with Ukraine's legislation, in this regard. I think there's an answer to these events that are happening right now when there's a war between the D.A., the N.A.U., the S.A.P., and so on. You're discrediting the state as a whole, unfortunately, that's a fact. Law enforcement, when there are no complaints from lawyers, lawyers, is a guarantee that you all have confidence and that you are the verdicts of the court, not that bad courts or bad MPs. I very much ask you not to make a pyar, please, because you are destroying people with a pyar, and then there is nothing to bring to trial. And please answer the questions asked by the national MPs, obey the law, and you will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u202	Let's go from factions to groups. I would like to point out immediately that I am continuing the session for 15 minutes, and we will be able to enter at this time in order to be able to speak out from factions and groups. So let's do the recording. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u203	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Artem Sergiyovich, I have a proposal for you not to answer the questions of the national MPs, you're going to break everyone's case, and then you're going to have the right not to answer everyone. Because if you're looking for excuses not to answer specific questions, it's wrong. We also have a question: Did we create the NABA for what? For a specific job or for a pianist? You've got almost 20 people working in the NABU state, you've got pear jobs, you've got 60,000 wages, and you've often seen on the Internet ad on the job of NABU. So, the best commercial for the NABU is the verdicts that have gained strength, not the paid advertising on the Internet or your press release. What is important about the speech of the director of the NAB? He actually confirmed what our team has been talking about for the last three years: there is no real judicial reform in Ukraine, all that the President and his parliamentary majority have been doing here, all that propaganda in order to bring about the judicial system. They changed the Constitution, passed the new Law on Justice, reelected the new Supreme Court, and reelected the judges. So what does the director of the NAB say? There is no court that can deal fairly and honestly with a case, and they need a separate Anticorruption Court. I have a question, where do we go from a peasant to what court to find justice? To what court should a person who shares property or divorce or so forth be judged? So, the Radical Party policy: every court in Ukraine has to be anti-corruption, from district to top, and you don't want separate courts where your special anti-prosecutor, the Cold Man, will be on the phone, giving the judges a command. You start with yourself, you stop calling the judges and stop: one goes to a foreign embassy, the other goes to the President's Office to receive instructions. [[Applause]] Instead of following the law and getting the instructions given to you by Ukrainian citizens, who pay you no salary for being organs under external influence. I want the Ukrainians to understand that today, the fight against corruption has actually turned into the collection of political accounts, the discrediting of political opponents. Procuring about one against the other, they broke the case against the other, and then they say: The courts interfere, the bad dancer gets in the way, the prosecutor corrupts and so on. In fact, stop using it for politics and then you'll get away with it. And of course, when you're in politics, one side pulls, the other side pulls, then you don't have anything. Therefore, the answer is one: The Radical Party team believes that the work of anticorruption authorities should be carefully checked. We demand that Parliament select an anti-corruption audience to check on this work. We demand that the anti-corruption prosecutor resign while investigating criminal conduct, which is violated by the facts found in his office. Well, last of all, boys, you're young, you still have to live and live. Why are you lying to people? Why do you lose confidence in such cosmic wages by translating the opportunity that you have given.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u204	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u205	Lord. He appointed one in 30 years, gave him a chance to become an anti-corruption prosecutor, and the other, I don't know how many Sitniks. You had a chance to get into history, show a concrete result. What do you do? You serve the interests of the clans or the outside government. You're missing the chance that you've been given to Ukraine, and most importantly, you're wasting our nation's chance to really change, you're killing people's faith that we can change the country's home country, that we can live decently in our own country. We demand that you stop and not lie to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u206	From the Self-Help faction, Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u207	Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna, Self Help Unit. I want to go to the leaders of anti-corruption agencies with the next one. Corruption, indeed, is and remains one of the greatest problems not only for the Ukrainian State but also for the disease in general. May I have your attention, Mr. Head, please? Thank you. And you are expected not only by the people in this room but also by all 45 million people living in Ukraine. These expectations are the last hope that there is for justice. To justice and to fight such phenomena as Rotterdam Plus, where this scheme enriches specific oligarchs thanks to people who are fully controlled by the Bank, the President's Administration. It's the expectation of solving the issues and unlocking the schemes, and taking responsibility for the tens of billions of dollars that have been withdrawn from the state company of Ukranafta. Sadly, energy remains one of the greatest sources of corruption. And behind this corruption are the people in the highest echelons who hold the highest positions in Ukraine. That's why I'm addressing you: please do your job qualitatively and show people this year that you are able to bring them to the end of the sentence. And in turn, we're going to do our best, and here I call on all my colleagues to pass the law on an independent anti-corruption court. It is this court that should allow you to show the outcome that all society expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u208	Thank you. The People's Front is the head of the Maksim Burbak faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we have listened carefully to the speeches of colleagues from SAP, NABU, and my conclusion is disheartening. We've heard of hundreds of thousands of wages and bonuses, you and I in this room vote in each budget per year for billions of expenses to support these organs, and there's no real billions of corruptioners sitting behind bars. We can see that the public conflict between SAP and NAB shows that the leaders of this vendetta focus on the scandalous pianist. The People's Front is outraged by these differences. And all of this only distances Ukraine from the real limit of corruption. The level of trust in anticorruption new bodies in society has fallen disastrously. And nobody like these organs did all of this to make society not trust them. The People's Front has long required the Bureau to move from pierra to practical results, namely: indictments against really high corruptioners. Where are the specifics? Where are the specific judgments? Where are the specific cases in the courts? And we don't have to tell you again that this is the problem of creating an Anti-Corruption Court. He will be, too. But if there are judgments, I have a question. Next. The events of recent months give us reason to doubt, especially in the processual activities of the NAB and the SAP on specific occasions. Even a nonprofessional can see that these are politically motivated double standards in the work of the NABU. A political group uses NAB as a tool for promoting its political project. It's an optimist MP with elite real estate, Gizo Head, in particular this de facto deputy is the political speaker of the NAB, who is the first on all detentions, in all hospitals and leads the way. Interestingly, where does he get this information? Maybe that's why they're talking right now in their fear that on the basis of these leaderships, we need to conduct the parliamentary elections on a stand-by basis, the President's election. Is that why there is no question about his elite real estate and possessions in the U.S.A.? Correct that. I didn't hear that today. The People's Front has long been silent about the abuse of the NABU leadership and its involvement in the collapse of the privatisation of Odeski Przytnik. Separately on the right. In 2016, the first competition for transparent public privatization was held. After Saakashvili, in cooperation with certain NABU officials, did all he could to break this transparent competition, no applications were received. And who would benefit from that? Certainly not Russia as an aggressor country with two goals: first, to show the world that Ukraine cannot be spoken of as a country awaiting investment, transparent investment; and second, to discredit our state in the eyes of investors and the public. Two years later. Which made the NAB and the SAP to prove to the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u210	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u211	And that's the end. The People's Front is the same political force that initiated and broke through parliament anti-corruption reforms. We created the NABU and the SAP. And we believe that there must be a UBU and an SAP. But we need to restore trust in people to these bodies. The whole society has given you a very large loan of trust, which you thinklessly lose during a conflict. But this loan will have to be returned. And those. If you're able to do that, I have big questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u212	Thank you. From the faction of "The Father" – Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I would like to support my colleague Sergey Sobolev's position, who called it the main and key reason why, unfortunately, law enforcement authorities in general and anti-corruption bodies are not effective. This is the umbilical cord that connects them to the Presidential Administration and to the active authority. And that's why I'd like to encourage both colleagues present to break this umbilical cord. To break the cord of dependence on active authority and to begin to become truly independent. Yes, these anti-corruption bodies are less independent than other organs, that's true, but they need to break this umbilical cord permanently. They're less dependent than the others. I agree. But they also need to break this addiction cord. Today, much has been said about who has a dream and who wants to gain it in this life. You know, I'd love to. I have this dream, I'd like to see, in my life, independent, honest, professional law enforcement agencies in Ukraine that will do their professional work. They'll be doing it in the silence of the cabinets. They're not going to press conferences. They're not going to do public shows, they're going to do their work quietly according to the Criminal Procedure Code. Collecting evidence as provided by the CPC. Fixing offenses. Form criminal materials. Advise suspicions where there is reason. And then defend your stand in court. Yes, indeed, the courts are dependent, I agree. And unfortunately, the reform that has been put on our ears as a reform of the judicial system is not the same. But trials are public and are a complete and absolute horror sometimes when I hear representatives speaking in law enforcement, in courts, we don't know where, you know, we don't know, under what circumstances a businessman did something. That's terrible! That's terrible! This has to be done. So prepare a professional position, bring it, yes, to an independent court, but stand up for it publicly and protect it publicly. And it's completely unacceptable, unfortunately, that what we have in this case is the artificial cutting of the materials of criminal cases that are published, and two years later it becomes known that it isn't completely complete, but on other materials the person has said other things. And then the court finds out that this was obtained illegally and so on. You have to stop this, guys: either publish all the material so there's no speculation, or publish nothing and publish it just in court, defending your position. We have to stop this, we have to stop this, and we don't have to do this. And here, you know, there's talkers here from the NABA, let's be honest, there's speaker MPs from all law enforcement agencies, from all of them, just like all law enforcement agencies do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u214	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u215	They come first, they publish first. This also has to be stopped as a class, not just in the NAB, but everyone has such MPs. So, guys, let's move from pear work to professional work, and work in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u216	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group is Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, the war in the state is already going on more than World War II. And corruption inside our country is even worse than it blows over our heads. That's what they tell me in the county. And when I come to the station-Lugana district, what happens. Lugansk even became a cancer tumor: there are no roads, no hospitals, everything is stolen. Public officials address all anticorruption bodies created by the Supreme Council. People trust, they trust anti-corruption authorities indefinitely today, and they beg that both the Anti-Corruption Court and the D.B.I.D. be created. But you have been approached, Your Honor, by the fact that today the governor has been working for two years in the Luhansk region, but he has been at work for only 70 days since he was 2 years old. Today, during this bloody war, two wakers were bought. One is in Silicon, and there he runs along the roads that he supposedly built for the children and 25 meters of the swimming pool. Severodonetsk is completely out of bounds, there is no money available, a district city in the Lugansk region. Why he does not pay attention today and does not give a normal answer to public figures and especially to national MPs. Please note, for there is great trust in you today, your country’s national trust in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u218	Thank you. And a closing statement from the factions. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Goncharenko Alexeiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u219	Hotcharyenko, Peter Poshenko Block, Odessa District. Dear friends, two years ago we created new anti-corruption bodies. Over the past two years, the state has spent several billion dollars on them. And here today is actually the first report by the leaders of these new law enforcement agencies. How did you see them two years ago? We thought the anti-corruption prosecutor would come out and say, "This minister has been planted, and billions of dollars have been returned to the state budget. This mayor is planted, billions of dollars returned to the state budget. He's got this deputy, he's got billions of dollars back in the state budget." But that was not what was supposed to happen. It's been two years, and instead of applauding you standing here, because you're actually planting corruption, we're deciding and hearing about the conflict that's going on between you and the biting that's going on between you. You say "no conflict." What is conflict? When are you going to beat each other when you meet him? When we read Mr. Sitnik’s interview, he says it is sabotage by the anticorruption prosecutor. How is that not conflict, but what is it called? You can't do that, we've got you cleaning the country, and you can't clean your own aquariums, it's not good anywhere. We're all expecting results from you. This whole situation shows us that we urgently need the audit of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I'll remind you that when we had audience candidates, some of our colleagues said, no, he's not good, he's not good, he's not, he's not, let's say, Martha Borsch. Until Martha Borsch turned out to be Onishtenka's lawyer. Is that supposed to be the audience? Friends, we need to select an NABA auditor as a matter of urgency, and we can do this by Parliament. Without that, we'll never get the result, we'll hear about the differences, we'll hear about the relationship clarification, we don't need it, we need the results. I'd like to suggest that you come to the Supreme Council next time and give us a result. The first thing you have to do is announce at least a moon to fight a pianist in your own office, because we hear statements, statements, statements, you have to stop it, silence gold all the time. You have to talk to cases and, above all, sentences, billions of returned money, like the U.S. Attorney General's Office has returned 50 billion dollars, young people. You say something doesn't work like that, show me, return 60 billion, we'll applaud you standing up. But so far we're seeing the bite, so far we're seeing that you don't understand what enormous trust you've been given by society and what it looks like in the eyes of international society, and every citizen of Ukraine. I'm sorry, I hope you'll come to the right conclusions and you'll come to the next report with very different results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-04-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. And I would like to say that we've had an emotional conversation, but I think it's very important that we have a dialogue between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the leaders of the anti-corruption bodies created. In fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has created all the anti-corruption prosecutions that are in our country, and the Supreme Council is the one that is still going through the changes, and I am confident that a decision on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court will be made shortly in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Together, we must fight corruption in our country. And I'm sure that maybe with errors, maybe with delays, but Ukraine is going the right way. And I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to be mobilized and united before this fight. And I want to thank both the Cold Nazar Ivanovich and the Tiny Artem Sergiyovich for participating in the Parliamentary meeting. And wish us all success and new victories. The question has been completed. The information is to be taken into account. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. And all the fruitful work on the committees. Thank you. Good-bye.
