ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I'm asking you to prepare the national deputies for registration. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:00:49]] There are 315 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Grigorovich Nesterenko of the Block of Peter Poroshenko. Please welcome the noun with the birthrights. [[Applause]] According to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make proposals, statements, and reports to the people’s deputies. People's deputies would like to prepare for the recording. Ready? Okay. Please hold the recording. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I do not give my word to those who have not been personally recorded. Since the people’s MP Zubik is not in the hall, the word goes to the next. [[B in m in s a l in]] How unfair? So honest: Whoever is in the hall is involved in the recording. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the list, let's go to the list. Those who sign up will have the opportunity to speak. The national deputy of Trelyaków is not present in the hall. Bereza's national deputy. Please, Bondar. Bondar, please. National Deputy Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon! Good morning, everyone! I want to speak on this issue. Today, I was contacted by representatives of the local authorities of the Kamyanka-Buzka district, Radehiv district, on the issue of shutting down the budget institutions from the gas supply. We know that on November 15 the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers 942 came into force, where it is forbidden during the heating period to shut down the heat-supply organizations from the gas. But despite this, lying or not reading these decrees, the Cabinet of Ministers comes and seals up the budget organizations, before sending messages of disconnection. I'll tell you what kind of address they made for me. "The Stone-Bust City Council reports that on 28.11.2018, in the Education, Culture, Tourism, Youth and Sports Department of the Kamyanka-Buzka City Council received a report from the Kamyanka-Buzka District of the PAT "Lvivgaz" Department of the Republic of Montenegro No. 51 on the cessation of gas supply on 1 December 2018. A gas company called Ukrtransservis-Grupt ordered a gas consumption limit for December. However, the AT "Ukrattransgas" did not provide any information on the approval of the PAT "Lvivgas" gas limits. It's a formality. In fact, all these limits have been given, approved, only by lying, using their monopoly, trying to influence the gas supply, making sure that the local authorities, the leaders, come and deal with these issues. I called Deputy Prime Minister Kistion Vladimir yesterday. He promised that this question would be raised in the Cabinet of Ministers today. And I urge the government once again to demand that we do not turn off the budget facilities, such as gardens, schools where our children are taught, as well as the national houses where they are going. The date of the order, in fact, is given because it has entered into force on November 15th, No. 942, to oblige the lie to comply with this legislation and not to exclude the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u3	Thank you. I don't see the People's Deputy of Ostapchuk. There's no room. National MP Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u4	Praise Jesus Christ! Ladies and gentlemen, I also address representatives of the government. It was a difficult situation when, in regions such as Ternopolska, liars allowed themselves to remove counters for testing and impose large fines, half a million and more, on unprofitable gas users because of the seemingly inopportune gas equipment, the counters passed a double - and - triple - year test. The ostracists are using an internal code, which, unfortunately, was thoughtlessly agreed by the NCREKP in 2015 and registered with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. But at the same time every month, not uncommonly, every two months, the agents of the lie screened gas counters, gas equipment in non-profit users, and strangely, why they did not seal during this period, did not establish that the gas equipment or counters did not go through as though they had been tested, but waited and delayed the process for two, three years, and this year they had paid fines in the form of a nominal amount of gas consumption for this period of two, three years, even though at the same time the users paid conscientiously. So there's a double payment of gas and then there's a double payment. From this point of view, I would like to go formally to the Government of Ukraine, to the NCREKP and to the representatives of the frauds to avoid this hidden harassment, corruption related to the removal of double wages for gas by users, particularly non-profit institutions, health, culture, education, and private entrepreneurs, which are very small. Because it is surprising that for two years these counters have not been checked or controlled by their unverification by the representatives of the frauds who are authorized to carry out the check. Why did they take two or three years to seal this process? Maybe to get more pay, double pay for a bonus? And if it was a sort of violation, then it's the thought of the unprofessional ability of people who lie or test bodies who for three years have allowed themselves to use untested gas equipment or counters that pose a threat to the safety of the lives of people, children in schools, in particular. So in this case, you have to accept the extent to which the license for gas services is denied. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u5	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov. He was given the word of MPs Martovicki and Shentz. Rules - 6 minutes. Next up will be the national MP of Kuprey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block wants to address you first to show you who is really interested in ordinary Ukrainian citizens, and who is just professing them in words from this rostrum. But the result of our action is not just words, it's not hot speeches -- it's the result of voting for decisions that are made, formed by the Supreme Council, initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers and formalized by the President of Ukraine. More than four years are now under the rule of the current European Ukraine coalition. In November 14th, just four years ago, they were talking about 300 votes -- the constitutional majority -- that they would finally make fundamental reforms to improve the country's economic situation, to improve the well-being of the population. Instead, what do we mean? These are, in particular, the indicators that are set in the State budget. Here we witnessed another budget night, in which the antisocial, anti-government law of Ukraine "On the State Budget 2019" was actually extended. They talked about European living conditions, but in the European Ukraine they only offered European prices and housing tariffs, a European price for natural gas, which is the main one. It's a basic basis for calculating and calculating heat energy. But where is the European standard of living? Where is the European level of social security? Just think, they've criticized the predecessors, but they're not better, and they're not even worse. Numbers and statistics are stubborn. And here, speaking out loud from the rostrum, but we can only see the deterioration in all major policies, the deterioration in the level of social security. Social policy spending in 2013 was $11 billion, and now they're offering $6 billion. Social assistance costs to socially vulnerable populations such as the Chernobyl disaster have been offered at $320 million by their predecessors in 2013, and now they are offering up to $60 million -- a reduction of more than 5 times. Expenses for compensation for housing and utility benefits. In their first reading, they offered 55 billion and said that it was more than the previous year. But there were 70 billion in the previous year. These are the costs that are necessary to ensure that, according to the Prime Minister, the average citizen does not feel higher prices for natural gas. On the one hand, they raise tariff prices, leading to economically sound and, in fact, economically unwarranted but European levels; on the other hand, they reduce expenses and benefits for housing and utilities. In the adopted version of the State Budget Act, these costs were reduced from 55 billion to 35 billion dollars when last year, as I said, 70 billion, now 35 billion. Here's the state's social concerns. In 2013, GDP was $181 billion, and now it's just over $100 billion. In 2013, the minimum wage amounted to $152, now $147, in 2013 the minimum wage was $118, now $65, and in 2013 the minimum pension was $118, now $55. Here's a picture of an improvement in the state, and this is what the average citizens of Ukraine feel from the government of this power, this coalition of European Ukraine. I don't know where you're building European Ukraine, but that doesn't apply to average citizens, because the level of social support, the level of social protection, it's getting worse and worse. As for tariffs, we see that the situation is catastrophic. In fact, it's the genocide of the Ukrainian population because of the reduction in the level of social security, because of the decline in the purchasing power of citizens, it's a cynical way that it continues to increase housing and utilities tariffs. How can we continue to do so? And then we have an army, a faith, a language. But I'm sorry, where's the economy? Where are the results of this economic policy? In no language will people be satisfied with any faith. Will they burn their premises in faith and language? But instead of counting their political dividends during the presidential election campaign, they're cynical, they're not afraid of anything, there's nothing sacred to them, more relative. in more or less a relatively peaceful sphere of religious life, they start disunity, sow hostility. Instead of uniting the population around those values and ideals that can unite the country, and actually talking about the only nation, they sow divisions, they sow hatred, they actually don't care about some part of the population that doesn't support them, and they talk about the Fifth Column of the Kremlin, as if we don't support their policies. And this whole conspiracy thing is just about leveling out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u8	To undo the negative economic consequences of your four- and-five-year reign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Kupreia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u10	Vitaly Cupray, unpartyed, non-fractional. Dear colleagues, President Poshenko, finally began to tell the truth. I welcome him with this. Recently, he stated that if we had a presidential election, only Putin would be happy about it. That's absolutely right. If the election breaks down, the business partner of the Kremlin leader remains in office. I want to remind you that we've entered a state of war. I voted against it, by the way, because it had to be done a long time ago, not to break the electoral process now. [[Noise Nodes]] In this situation, we had to break diplomatic relations, stop trade relations, stop transport relations, arrest Russian capital assets that are here. And we know that there's Babakov here, we know how the diaspal trade that he's leading is smuggling Medvedchuk. In this situation, it must be admitted that President Poshenko is the most advantageous president for Putin. He's a collaborator, and you have to admit that. What am I trying to say? There are now plans to discuss between the Kremlin and Bank, how to leave Dusty in power. It's looking at very difficult scenarios for Ukraine, bloody scenarios. The first is the question of the next operation, which may lead to the environment of Donetsk or the breakthrough in stopping the aggression caused by Putin in the area of Mariupol. We are being warned that a plan is being prepared to go to Crimea and make a land corridor. In this situation it's going to be, let's say, a pure provocative event on the part of Dusty, he's going to come back to us, and he's going to say that we need to introduce a state of war, stop the electoral process. Option two. If he doesn't make a deal with Putin and the Kremlin, he'll go with the others. another scenario is being discussed, these are terrorist attacks. The issue of explosions is being discussed. For example, infrastructure objects may be some kind of a dam, some kind of bridge. It's also going to be a question of what the enemy did, and he's going to come here and tell us: let's stop the electoral process. If they fail to do so, the question of whether the elections will be broken during the vote itself will be discussed. On election day, terrorist attacks are planned at polling stations. Where Dusty doesn't win, he doesn't scare people, he doesn't give them. give low appearances, falsify results, and in some cases even acknowledge the results of the elections as invalid. That's what the zinc barrage is all about. He doesn't think for a minute for people, for a country, how to protect us all, he thinks only for his own chair, how to take advantage of the mountain people. We need to discuss this. We have to keep this from happening. I suggest you unite in this effort and throw out this "shit," sorry, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u11	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u12	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, when people die in war, it's a great disaster and tragedy, and that's when people die in their free time and die because of lack of medicine, it's just completely incompatible with a civilized state. How many died from botulism, from the bark, how many died in the hospital because there were no drugs? The governing coalition took an unprecedented step, creating unprecedented preferences for international organizations, legitimized their activities. If we used to buy drugs and the supplier had 90 days to supply drugs and then went on to settle money, today the money in international accounts is 18 months -- and there are no results. No one has seen and can't decipher the contracts. As it turns out, the public shows that international organizations take 5 percent of the purchases alone, they don't supply the drugs themselves. That is, if you have over 18 billion dollars left abroad, only a billion dollars went to international organizations for helping to organize the purchase. And for today, no drugs are available, nothing is purchased in the 18th year, and in the 17th year, one of the international organizations in general is only 40 percent of the supply of drugs. And everyone says, "It's time to stop." Under the Ukrainian Law of March 31, the Law on the Work of International Organizations was to come to an end. And what did you do, your honorable colleagues, to the ground? On the night against the requirements of articles 116, 158 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, contrary to the repeated decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are binding, you have, without making these proposals to the draft budget in the first reading, between the first and second drafts, voted in favour of continuing the international organizations' right to place these medicines in Ukraine for another year. How could this happen? People's deputies can't make such a right. This is the result of nightly budget reviews. What difference does "under the tree" have to do with 30 numbers, or is it November? All night nobody reads anything, you vote, and then you run, and you get to the head of whoever moved it. In such circumstances, I refer to both the Chairman and the Head of the Supreme Council to instruct the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to see how, in violation of the requirements of the Rules and in contravention of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, changes have been made regarding the extension of international purchases. Moreover, we have made changes to other laws that the Constitution prohibits at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u13	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Baccheyev. She has been given the word of the People's Deputy of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u14	Tetjana Bakheyev, "The Opposition Block". Dear colleagues, there is a shock to the irresponsible policy of the MOH leadership. The MOH team is clearly not coping with its responsibilities. In Ukraine, vaccination was completely unsuccessful. Back in the 21st century, in Ukraine, in the center of Europe, diseases such as tuberculosis, such as diphtheria, measles, began to develop again. There are no cures and vaccines in Ukrainian hospitals, and 90 percent of medical equipment is worn out. The money promised by the MOH team never reached the patients, it's far abroad. Today’s MOH management, besides writing on Facebook with basic tasks, cannot work. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted in September the Act on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man. The Council voted, but the law is not working today. Doctors, medical experts, have warned that the adoption of this law is premature and unwarranted today. Ukraine first needs peace and then only the Transplant Act. The opposition bloc did not vote in favour of the bill. What do we have today, honourable deputies? The ILO has completely failed to prepare the legislation necessary for the implementation of this law. Not prepared as a minimum of 8 necessary regulatory acts to be prepared by the MoH. Organ transplantation, in a number of cases, is the only method that can save the lives of patients. During the years of independence, thousands of such operations were performed in Ukrainian transplant centres. And they can do it today, our doctors, not abroad, but they don't have the equipment, there's no condition to do it. Ukraine and the Ukrainians need only a working law on transplantation. Ukraine's Act on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man, the way it's now in the MoH, it can't work. And without the legal acts that the MOH has completely failed, there are risks of a black transplant in Ukraine today. The health and life of Ukrainians are at stake! The MOH command needs to be permanently changed to a Ukrainian professional and responsible team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Kuprienka. He was given the word by the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u16	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. It was the 9th day of the state of war in the country. What changed in nine days? Every day people call, break up phones and say, "What's going to happen? When will they come? When do you need it? Where to Run? What to do?" Dear citizens of Ukraine, all who now hear us and see us! The introduction of martial law is the exclusive prerogative of the President of Ukraine as Commander-in-Chief. And we had no right not to vote or support him. But we were obliged not to allow the authorities to use the regime to introduce martial law for political purposes. And that's what happened. Do You Remember What You Wanted? I wanted to enter 60 days to ban the election. What are they? Presidential. They became a wall, they didn't. Presidential elections will be held. Are Your Rights and Responsibilities Restricted, Respectable Citizens? No, it's not. So it's written in the decree: they can be limited. We make people, not us. The Presidential Council is full of shit. They can't. Because in order to limit those rights, we need to come back to the Supreme Council, to give a new decree where rights will be restricted so that we can vote. And according to the law, the President is obliged to immediately inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the member countries of the 66th International Covenant, ratified by Ukraine in the year 73, of the limitations of these rights. Does anyone know this legal casework? No, it's not. Have they restricted rights? Every day the president says don't worry, I'm a Democrat, I won't limit it. And let's read the Constitution, which we're told in article 38. Do citizens have the right to vote, to be elected and to choose? They do. Citizens' rights? Right. Do they have the right to a peaceful demonstration? They do. The Constitution is the highest law. Is it possible to carry out wartime activities? It turns out no is forbidden. Is that how the rights are restricted or not? Therefore, my lords, do not fool people or exploit the plight of the Ukrainian people, direct military aggression and the war of Russia against Ukraine, for your advantageous political goal of staying close to that conquered trough. It won't work! March 31st, you will see!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u18	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that next week, we will first mention a very scary day for Ukraine, when more than 30 years ago, one of the greatest technological and environmental disasters in the life of not only Ukraine, in life and in all mankind, is an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. A tragedy that has claimed the lives of tens of thousands of people who have forced thousands of people to change their place of residence and the effects of which we feel today. Until now, those who have participated in the elimination of an accident that has lost their health and whose state is obliged to comply with the laws in force will create the necessary conditions for them to be treated, to improve their living conditions, that is, unfortunately, these State guarantees are not fully implemented. What exactly is required by the Chernobyl family? Because someone says they're often populist statements, populist demands. No, the Chernobylers require only one – the enforcement of existing legislation. And if you look at, let's say, for 2018, even in terms of liquidators, the funds that were budgeted were only able to provide 50 percent of the guarantees for treatment, food, and so forth. So I want to remind you again today: in July, a decree was adopted by the President of Ukraine that clearly determines that by the end of the year, a new national programme should be developed and adopted, a new strategy to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which would have absorbed all the unfinished events associated with the failure to implement state programmes. Of course, no one is saying that today is enough, let’s say, to meet all the conditions. But if we can't provide, once again, even the programs that work, let's face it, let's write down for the next few years, how we're going to make payments, provide food for children, heal the categories that are needed. And finally, Bill 4442, which deals with the retirement provision of liquidators, and the children's nutrition bill, should be considered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u19	Thank you. National MP Nichiporenko. He's not in the hall. Next National MP, Mishchenko. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u20	98 County, Kiev, Mishchenko. The anger, the pain, the tears, the anger, the disappointment, the despair -- that's all our citizens today want to get the grant. Those high-ranking people in the districts, they ride, they meet people, they understand, and they are told at each meeting by dozens, hundreds, thousands of people, who are now feeling primarily despair, and how they can winter this winter. Because if we take statistics, in October of last year, 6 million of our citizens were eligible for the grant, this year is 1.5 million. 4.5 million are deprived of these rights. Today, these 4.5 million are writing to the commission to be reinstated. You just don't know what is going on in the Social Security Department today, where two employees of this department just can't do the examinations of these citizens, go to the place -- what's provided for by this decision. You don't understand that these people are getting payments today without a grant, with a higher price for gas, counting on this commission to consider their application and resume the grant. This authority can only pay taxes. She gave a pension allowance, a tax that people are talking about today, but from another pocket she took a gas price raise, reducing social standards on subsidies from 5.5 cubes to 4.5. It reduced the norm, the social standard, to housing from 75 square meters to 48.87 meters. Today, drug prices, food prices, and so forth have increased. A person today in despair, he does not understand how to survive, how to survive this winter, or how to survive. So I just want to remind you that you have an election. I don't know what you're going to go to the election with. Because you have to go to people -- and they'll tell you about your passwords that nobody needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u21	Thank you. We've finished speaking to the National Deputies. There was a motion for a break from two MP groups: the MP group "Rebirth" and "The Will of the People". I'm gonna have to replace it. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kulinić.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u22	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Voters! Once again, I would like to raise the subject of road repair and reconstruction. In July of this year, public roads totalling 700 km were transferred to the balance sheet of the Poltava District State Administration. Logically, such a transfer would have to be provided with additional resources to repair these roads. I have repeatedly raised these questions in the session room in front of the Minister of Infrastructure, Volodymyr Omelán, and have constantly heard the answer that the resource is available. But it is now clear that there will be no funding for these roads because, according to the Budget Code, these roads would have to be in the public roads status of the previous year. This resource has therefore been available only since 2020. I have a total length of 1,08 miles [208 km] in the 147 constituencies of such roads. But the most problematic two are T 1706 Zynkov-Hadzic and T 1725 Mirgrod-Comishna-Hadzic. The first connects three district centers — Lochvitsa, Gadjac, Zynków, and Poltava District Center. This road is extremely important because children are constantly going to school at the district center, and this road is important in transporting patients who are seriously ill to the district center. Thanks to the positions of the head of the Poltava District Authority, Valery Gołk, we have jointly found resources for these roads, according to Opišna-Hadzic – 43 million and Mirrod-Koczyń – 13 million, and have been able to make these roads more or less accessible. But the resource is still huge enough to keep these roads from being lost. If we hadn't done this this year, these roads would have been lost to the area. Another huge problem. In 2018, funding from the Poltava region was withdrawn on utility roads. It's about a subsidy that's supposed to come in at 646 million dollars, and it came in at 588 million. So 60 million bracelets were removed from the area completely without a basis. In addition, for 2019 utility subsidies were expected to be 965 million for the area, but literally yesterday the local road agency received a letter that would be 806 million, or 160 million more for 2019. It's completely illogical and incomprehensible. With one moss, we hang 700 km of unresourced roads and immediately cut funding into 160 million. That's why I'm asking Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman to take this matter under personal control. To give the Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Omelán, a task of understanding, studying the situation, and finding a solution to the situation. Please consider my request to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, good afternoon again! The discussion is over, and we're moving on to the agenda. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that we are the first to have the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the Kuyalnicke Lyman of the Odessa Region as a resort of State importance. This draft law on previous consultations is actually supported by all the factions in the room. Now, part of the MPs are at the local self-government forum, but after 11 o'clock, I've asked them all to be in the hall so that we can vote effectively. So I have an appeal to all the factions' heads to maximize the MPs so that we can have a successful vote under draft Law 8502, and we're going to look at it. And I immediately announce his consideration by full procedure. And I invite the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna, please. And I would stress, colleagues, that by the end of the discussion, we would invite all the deputies into the hall and urge everyone to be in the hall. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! This bill refers to the unique territories of Odessa, near the Kuyalnicke Lyman. In fact, this is the Ukrainian Dead Sea, which we can lose if we don't assign these lands immediately now, we don't give the status of Official Courts of State. The bill proposes to declare the natural territory of the Kuyalnicka liman of Odessa County a State-owned resort and to approve the areas of the sanitary (mountain-sanitary) protection of the Kuyalnik resort. There is no reference to the content of the bill either to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office or to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, which is also known for the development of the tourism industry in Ukraine. However, according to the Ukrainian Law on Resorts, such a bill would have to be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the participation of the central executive authorities, the Odessa District State Administration, the local self-government authorities. Thus, when the bill was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the procedure for declaring natural areas as resorts was not followed by the State importance established by the Act on Resorts. At the same time, I would like to remind you that this decree is valid today since 1985, even in Soviet times, when it is within these limits that Kuyalnicki territory has been declared a resort. What does that mean? That, in fact, at the end of the Soviet Union, the Supreme Council of Ukraine would have simply technically approved these boundaries. But it hasn't been done yet. I believe that this Parliament will be able to do just today, to go to the MPs of the different factions, to finally confirm this salient decision for Kuyalny region. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee stressed the need for the most rapid announcement of the natural territories of the Kuyalnik Lima region of Odessa by the resort of national importance. At the same time, members of the committee believe that the bill has not been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with Ukraine's Pro resorts Act because of the bureaucratic burden created by executive authorities and has lasted for more than a year. Thus, in order to ensure the preservation of a unique species of peloids and mineral waters and the effective use of the great healing potential of the Kuhalnicki Liman, a member of the committee is seen as an urgent adoption of a bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies from various factions. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the Kuyalna Lima Region of the Odessa Region of State Meaning (registration No. 8002), submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine to Romanova, Sisoyenko, Velikinim and others, from various factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very much asking you to mobilize members of your factions, because this bill does not contain any political subtext. We need to unite around our whole territories that we do not use today. Having such properties in Ukraine, we go abroad without realizing that we're sitting here on a "Golden Living" that can bring not only for the Odessa region, but for Ukraine in general, to strengthen our image as a tourist country as a strong country. And now this area, if I were to show you the photos, it's more like whether it's a garbage dump or a construction site. There is a natural construction, and not even an investor who today sees that the central authorities and the local authorities go to create a resort there, but no investor wants to invest in the territory. By the way, it's an initiative of the local community, local authorities, self-government, because they already have a development strategy as a healing resort in this area, and now they're just waiting for a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, questions to the reporter, three minutes. Please hold the recording. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u26	What a future I would like to have. The strategic future of this area under Odessa? What's he waiting for? What Will It Be for People? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. In fact, now this area, as I said before, is naturally forgotten, like a construction site, a garbage can. But now, if we're going to assign state-of-the-art status, it has to be used as a target. At the Odessa observatories, investment offers are already being made to develop the area as a healing resort. There is already a strategy for the development of this territory as a resort, but that is precisely where the official status is to be assigned. Moreover, for those of you who don't know, just the healing properties of the Kuyalna liman, they're the same as in the Dead Sea: you can treat the disease of the resistance machine, the disease of the respiratory system. This may well be the medical treatment of our soldiers who came back from the war. Also, yesterday we all talked about people with special needs. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u28	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u29	What I'm saying is that people who are stuck to wheelchairs and need to be healed to this day, there used to be only one famous place -- Saki, now with the Crimea annex, we have to recreate the same resort, and it's Kuyalnicki territory and Kuyalnicki Liman, which can be an alternative to Szam. And now it's up to us. We have this composition of the Supreme Council to save the Kuyalnik for future generations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u31	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. At all levels of authority, we see a criminal relationship with the Odessa city authorities, who are robbing Odessa, who are ordering attacks on activists. For three years without a vote, there is not even a decision by the Probational Committee on the Early Elections, and the Odessa elections have been signed by 102 nationalists. Ninety acres of stolen school airport in Odessa, we see no reaction. I have also called upon the Chief Commander, the Secretary of Defense, to place the garrison there, and now again I call for action under martial law. We see, when they burned down my reception room, which said "The People's Deputy's House," the Attorney General said, "What is it, writing on the tents of the People's Deputy's House?" Although the whole Midan has done so. And now we see that this is an important question to keep Kuilnick this. the recreational zone, the territory is on Wednesday, when it is actually guaranteed that the vote will be broken down, and it will solve the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u32	Thanks for the offer. Of course, attacks on activists are affecting many areas of Ukraine. I looked at the map yesterday, and it's Clothing, it's the number of attacks on activists, it's going into this three of these areas. There are many questions about even this area of the Kuyalnicke Lyman, as it is now being used. If someone wants to build it now, for example, a WTO or some production that is actually going to destroy these natural healing muds, there's not even a reason for the good offices of local self-government to refuse. So in order to give all the legal instruments for local self-government authorities to preserve these healing properties of the Odessa Lyman, we must now vote. And of course, the big question is that MPs don't walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u34	I know MPs don't go to meetings on Wednesday. I know exactly what the community of Atonement is looking at us right now. These people, the public activists who are just against the construction of this territory, they're just initiating. We are now being watched by local authorities who are in position to preserve these healing territories for generations to come. And of course, it is sad if today the MPs are irresponsible in their duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u35	Thank you. I want to make it up to you. I find it unacceptable that a national MP is not in the workplace. I'm calling all the deputies: look to the right, to the left, who isn't; pick up the phone, call me. This is the working time of Ukrainian national deputies, and I have repeatedly stressed this. As there's a rotation on the front of our military, no one can imagine him getting up and going and saying, "There are no soldiers on the front today." There can't be a teacher saying, "I'm not coming today, I'm not doing it today, there are other things." And a worker, and a miner, and any employee. And that's why I'm addressing all the factions: there can't be any such thing that there are no national deputies at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there are no national MPs, I will conduct the vote and publish it in the Voice of Ukraine. So please look who's gone, the factions' heads, call me back. We're going to follow full procedure, and we're going to have a discussion that's going to take about forty minutes. It's enough to get from anywhere in Kiev to the workplace. Everyone should be in the workplace when decisions are made. This is the responsibility of factions. And I ask everyone to call, and during the discussion, to maximize the entire room. Thank you, Mrs. Anna. The co-report is now invited under the alternative bill of the Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna, please. Then there will be factions from the factions, speeches from the deputies. And that, I stress once again, is enough time to mobilize everyone in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the Cooker is one of the oldest mud resorts in Ukraine, which was founded in 1834 in the valleys of the lemon. Sulphide mud from the sulfide mud is recognized by its medicinal properties as reference material. They help reduce inflammatory processes, strengthen immunity, and restore the functions of damaged organs and systems of the body, and are used to treat infertility. The oil of Lymanu also has healing properties, and the mineral water "Cooker" helps in the disease of the gastrointestinal tract. "Smoker" is a unique place for Ukraine because its mud is considered more purposeful than on the Dead Sea in Israel. However, both Ukrainian scientists and the public find the environmental situation on the Kuyalnicka liman to be critical. The main danger for the lemon is its gradual drying. The water level in 2013 fell by 16 centimeters [16 cm] compared to May 2012. It is known that the average depth of the lemon is 1 meter, so even so small, at first glance, destruction is very serious. The complete drying of the lemon will result in the imminent destruction of the aquatic flora and fauna, the loss of unique healing properties by the watershed. Honourable National MPs, with the aim of preserving them from premature contamination and bacterial pollution of mineral waters and healing filth of the Kuyalnick Lyman Council Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As early as March 7, 1985, the Russian Federation approved the district and sanitary areas of Kuyalnik resort in the Odessa region. However, the Kujaljnik resort was not officially declared in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "Pro resorts" by the resort of State importance. At the same time, the preservation of the unique natural heritage of Kuyalnicka liman’s healing resources requires a systematic approach that can be implemented by creating and ensuring the functioning of a public-value resort. In view of what has been said, there is an urgent need to preserve this unique species of peloids and mineral waters by announcing the natural territories of the Kualnicka liman of the Odessa region as a public resort. Dear colleagues, let's support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u37	Three minutes is a question. Excuse me, Mrs. Tetjana, return to the rostrum. Three minutes. Question to the reporter, please. Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovitch is handing over to Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u38	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, I wanted to ask Annie Romanov. Because it's really quite a necessary bill. And all of Odessa must be waiting for him. His country awaits him. Because we know that this is going to be filled with tourists and this is going to be the treatment of our people. And, of course, it's going to mean a lot. But the question I have is, as you're counting, why haven't there been any sessions since the 85th year, how many different sessions haven't been held yet? By the end of the day, our session, God willing, will have made the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u39	Thank you. I can't answer that question. So that's what we're about to do right now. That's what we're going to do today. Why was this not done? Sadly, someone may have wanted to make it a private resort. Because now we want to make it a national value, so we have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey Shahov will pass the word for the question to Krivenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u41	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. All two motorists vote in favour of the bill. And yet I'm going to continue with the question of the next consecutive election in Odessa, Smily, where the situation is catastrophic. In Smila, for example, the court has already removed the city’s head. And in our face, the braves unanimously voted that power and MPs should be changed. And when the Committee on State Building isn't meeting, it's not making decisions, I call on the heads of the People's Front faction, the BPT faction, they have a third and a half, they can form the agenda of this committee. I call upon the Head of the Supreme Council, who is the hostage for today. He can't go into the hall without a decision by the committee following this decision after Odessa, and for more than three years he's been lying there. Come to a meeting, make it open and make any decision to be able to come into the hall. Because today the actual responsibility for not making decisions lies with the two largest factions of Parliament. We have dozens of cities that require extra elections. When you're out of control, you know, you steal the most. And so I urge all my colleagues to come and in no case give a negative signal to the activists in Odessa who are fighting for the preservation of every meter of Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u42	Dear colleague, why the city doesn't work there. Dear colleague, why there is no city authority, I cannot say it is the law. And I repeat that its significance for Ukraine is very great, because the healing possibilities are greater than in the Dead Sea in Israel, there are thousands of our sick patients who are not only being treated, but who are becoming healthy. So we have to do this now. Why doesn't the city council do it, I can't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Wesselova, are you insisting on the question? Mrs. Natalia, are you insisting on the question or not? No, it's not. So thank you. Question time's up. And, colleagues, I want to tell you again. Attention! Now, by our procedure, he's acting out of factions, then he's acting out of deputies. It's probably up to 40 minutes. At 11:40 a vote will take place on the draft Law 8502. If I see that there are not enough deputies in the room, I will be required by law to hold a rating vote and publish in the Voice of Ukraine of the deputies present. So I go to all the factions' heads so that it wouldn't be a surprise, that then there wouldn't be an insult, because the previous time many people were offended that it happened suddenly. This is no surprise. 11:40. If there are no national deputies in the workplace, I will publish in the Voice of Ukraine all those present in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't scream. I told you that according to the procedure, we've got the factions coming from the heads of the factions and then from the deputies. So now I'm asking you to record from factions and groups who have the intention and desire to participate in this discussion. Please. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman. He's handing over Romanov. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now being told from Odessa that people are watching the Supreme Council. Of course, nothing but negative emotions does. This does not apply to the people in this room today. I am very grateful to all the deputies who are conscientious about their duties as deputies. But it's too bad that we're losing a little Ukraine, and we're not only losing it because of the Donbas war, we're losing it because we're slowly losing our resources, our healing resorts. Now, if we don't support this decision, what are we going to have? The swindler wakes up very soon, very soon these treatments. We will lose healing water, and our people will again when even Ukrainians spend money on their vacations, they will strengthen Egypt's economy, Turkey, but they won't even know that we have a dead sea in Ukraine. Now, if a man has money, he spends it on treatment where? In Israel, in Germany, in Switzerland, abroad, instead of investing in Ukraine's economy, instead of developing these areas that will then give us, they're going to pay tens of times as much money back to our economy. According to the National Bank of Ukraine, every year Ukrainians who travel to different countries of the world only export cash-free accounts, do you know how many from Ukraine? Seven billion dollars, that's just last year. And at this time, at this time, we are. When foreigners come to Ukraine, they spend only $1.5 billion. What does that mean? This means that if we're going to develop our own tourism industry, logistics, rail routes, according to Andry Sadowa, we have to create an airport in every district center in Ukraine, then we're going to invest more than $10 billion in Ukraine's economy. These are the costs that go to small and medium-sized businesses, these are jobs. Someone calculated how many votes we are voting now, if it were to take place, would provide additional jobs for this area where the Kuyalnick Lyman is now located? No one counted. It's our job as statesmen to figure out what the economic potential of every Ukrainian territory is, and to do that, to come to the hall, to work as national deputies, to work in the government, not to do some of our tasks. Thank you very much. And I look forward to supporting your factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u45	Thank you. I'd like to have a word with you. You're arguing, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u46	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, you and I are considering two bills today. And the first and the second, they complement each other. And I think God would have given them, they're identical, but God would have given us a first reading today, and they would definitely be united. I'll say more that probably no committee meeting was attended by the head of the administration, namely, the head of the Odessa administration, who came to the committee meeting and asked the Kuyalnicki Lima to become a court of State importance. It's very common that we haven't done anything since 1985, and we haven't been able to accept the Kuyalnicke Lyman as a public resort in the days of our free Ukraine. I think we missed a lot of dads. There's a lot that our country won't get any budget money today. We know perfectly well that the Kuyalnicke Lyman is not far away, about 20 to 30 kilometers away, it's Moldova. From there the whole of Moldova is going to be treated. And if, indeed, we attach great importance to the state itself, it will probably come from everything, of course, not only from Ukraine, but from around the world, because this is really the lemon that Odessa is so looking for, which is the government budget that the local, Kuyalnicka Council is waiting for, in fact, to come into the budget. So I would very much ask that you and I come into the hall and support this bill. In fact, it will unite the entire hall; it has no political significance here. I just wanted to do it anyway. We say that one is irrelevant. No, all the bills that are adopted in the hall today are important, and we must take responsibility for everyone. So I would like all of us to take responsibility for today’s two bills and accept them on our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u47	Thank you. I invite you to speak of the will of the people of the people of Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u48	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, we see practically enough people in the hall, and today we need to gather around this bill. "Our Land" supports the decision on resorts to be of all national importance. Because today all resorts that have been bought over 27 years and businesses that have been destroyed, cut into scrap metal, into building materials. And the children’s camps, where I was still resting as a child, when with the miner’s father, the Kingdom of Heaven, went to the mud baths in the Slavs, the Carpathians, the Black Sea, to the Azov Sea! Many of these resorts today are of state importance, which can make a profit of tens of billions of dollars to our nation, to give tourism development. I was recently in Mirgorod. The city is flourishing. It's practically like Italy: beauty is incredible. Why is a resort like the Black Sea Cobbler in decline today? Why, today, when you're on a train, I literally go to Lugansk to see myself in the district, and I look at everything in the trash. And that's what our children in our country are looking at, and that's what our guests are looking at. Where is our faith? Where is the conscience of those who do not want to support this bill today? So I call on every national MP in the session room to support the bill, the people who designed it, the committee that worked on the bill. And it doesn't matter which party we're from today, we have to develop our state. "Our Land" supports the bill on the national significance of the Kuyalnik resort. And we also need to do an audit of all the resorts in our country. All the children’s camps that are now in decline, all that was destroyed in 27 years. Let's build, not destroy. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u49	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of the opposition block of the people's MP Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u50	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Honorable People of the Odessa Region! I think from the "The Council" Channel, it's a huge disgrace to demonstrate the semi-empty Hall of the Supreme Council! - when you consider such a bill. I represent the Odessa Supreme Council, and from most of the Odessa people, and I've been talking to many of my countrymen about this, I can say that this bill is very, very important for our region. Because the Kuyalnicke Lyman, and unfortunately very little is said in the central press, in the central media, unfortunately, Ukrainian citizens know more about the Dead Sea, the famous Dead Sea in the State of Israel than do the Kuyalnicke Lyman. Instead, according to its healing properties, the Kuyalnicke Lyman is unique and no worse than the Dead Sea. The problems surrounding the Kuyalna liman are very and very many, these and the problems of the Kuyalnik River, which is barbarically used, its barbaric pool is used in illegal careers. And I'd like to take this opportunity to go to the D.A.'s offices on this issue, to look at these issues, this is land use, this is the situation with the buildings of the Cooking Room, which belongs to the University Health Department, which is a very, very difficult situation. To make it. Now in the hall they say this law can give new jobs and so on. Unfortunately, that is not the case, this law does not solve all the issues surrounding the Kuyalnicke Lyman. But I want to urge all of my colleagues in this room to clearly support this bill. Because this is definitely a step forward for the protection of the Kuyalnicke Lyman swimming pool, this is a clear call to the attention of Ukrainian society, the global public to this issue, this is a clear raise in the eyes of the world public and potential customers, the potential tourists of the Kuyalnicke Lyman. So the fact that there are no fellow MPs in this room today is very and very bad, once again, it's a disgrace. I urge you to support this bill. And I wanted to thank those authors, those members of the Supreme Council who submitted this bill to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u51	Thank you. I'd like another word from the Radical Party. People's deputy Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u52	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, I've just had a "segret" here, instead of sitting in the Lukyanian SSO and taking responsibility for crimes against the Ukrainian state, against the Ukrainian nation, sitting in the Parliamentary Hall. But less so, we are living in a historic time when tectonic changes are taking place in Ukraine. Today, we are more than ever close to having Ukraine acquire a suburban autocafal church, for which many generations of Ukrainians have fought for hundreds of years. But, dear friends, do you know what prevents the creation of the Ukrainian meat church, except for the opposition of Moscow, whose agency is included in the hall, including before me did the MP Skorik speak? The creation of a local church is hampered by a mindless policy of power in the economy. For your information, I came here from the Feodosian Monastery, an island of Ukrainian spirit in the middle of the "Russian world" here in Kiev. In November, the Feodosian Monastery received a payment of more than 27,000 dollars. Today, Ukrainian temples cannot be paid on such high, ungodly tariffs as today’s authorities have imposed. Our team requires assistance for the Ukrainian Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, for the future local church, for the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church in order to serve God today, to protect the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, not to seek the funds they need to pay on tariffs. I counted it. I've been talking to Archimandrite Makari, the governor of the monastery, and they've calculated that in December, there's going to be about 75,000 dollars of unaided bills. The monastery can't pay the costs. I call upon authority, fear God, do not mistreat people, do not abuse our church. Meet the Radical Party requirement, draft Oleg Láška's bill on tariff cuts, and give us some credit for our Ukrainian church. And we need to think about people, about our future, not about going into the pockets of the Ukrainian Church today, going into the pockets of every Ukrainian family and getting out of there the last. Neither people nor our church can pay the money the authorities want today, at the request of the IMF to pay, just can't, there's no such money. Look. Let me finish, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u53	Dear People’s Deputy. Your Honor, this is not about the subject of the question that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u54	I'm talking about the most important things right now. about the Ukrainian Church and how to survive. This bill is clearly supported by the Radical Party. Our leader, Oleg Lazko, is his co-author. Sanatoriums should all be state property, not privatized, where they will be cut to pieces and looted. Take care of Ukraine! Praise her!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just warning you that if the speech doesn't apply to the bill that we're considering, I'm just going to rule out the microphone. I'm warning you, there'll be no complaints later. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like a moment of the people's MP, Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u56	I want to go to the chairman one more time, because when opposition MPs speak, who say something that doesn't like the Presidium, they're always interrupted. And some MPs are allowed to insult their colleagues with impunity, and there is absolutely no basis for blaming them. The deputy goes to the rostrum, he doesn't even know where the Kuyalnicke Lyman is, but he talks about Tomos, who he can't. He doesn't even know what it is, he tells us about tariffs, he's just using time in the parliamentary rostrum to plentiful political power and to pilfer himself. Once again, I ask the presiding officer to comply with the Rules, and if the MP is not speaking on the issue on which he claims to interrupt such statements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u57	I agree with you very much, and I have already stressed that the speeches will not continue unless they apply to the bill that we are considering. May I have a word with the People's Front faction of the People's Deputy Veliczovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, today’s bill, according to which the territory of the Kuyalnicke Lyman will be declared or may be declared by the resort of State importance, is extremely important. The question raised in our committee, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, on which the head of the Odessa district administration, who had many experts, experts, was present, is of great importance. For a few reasons. One is that we had to solve this a long time ago, not even in this office, but in the last 20 years. The second is that today it is necessary to protect this territory from those who are engaged in improper economic activities that exploit unskilledly these healing resources, and we must protect it. Third. We need to create preconditions for new investments to be made in this region because of the creation or granting of status to Kuyalnicke Lima. Such State protection will enable large investments to be made. These are new jobs, these are new tourists who will come to us for treatment, for healing, and this will enable our citizens not to go abroad, not to export money, but for relatively small costs to go through treatment and recovery in Ukraine. We call on all colleagues, regardless of factions, regardless of political preferences, regardless of which groups they are in, or non-fractional groups, to come to the hall and vote. Because in this case it is the thing that unites all the deputies that unites the whole country. We should be concerned about our future, remember that, and urge our colleagues to come to the hall, vote, and support our tourism, our recreation industry. We don't have a lot of these resorts yet, and that's why the Kuyalnik might be one of the ones that will push for development to continue the resortology. Therefore, we call upon you, fellow believers, to come to the hall, to vote, and to give him support, to give him a new breath of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u59	Thank you. We have finished speaking from the MPs, and now we have the opportunity to speak to the national MPs. Please prepare and record, please record. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u61	Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u62	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, does anyone have any doubt that the natural territories of the Kuyalnick Lyman of the Odessa region should be declared a public resort? No doubt about it. What's going on in the hall? Where are the people in the hall? Why are we going to the new regulation today: everyone please get together at 11:40, otherwise we're going to bet on a rating vote? All kinds of patriotic people want to organize a good Kuyalnik resort and vote for no one. Why don't you take it and make a rating vote and not publish it? Why does one come into the hall and work, and a whole series of chairs are empty? What's going on? This is another form of work in the Supreme Council. What's more, let's talk about the important subject of the Cooker, right? No questions asked. We talked. Everyone helped. How much are we talking about? An hour. And for reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm forced to turn off your microphone. It's not about the subject. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've warned you. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, and you have to speak on the bill that's under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u64	That's what I'm talking about! I'm saying, why doesn't the Cheeker, who needs support in the hall, have it? Why the ruling coalition. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why are there not even those deputies from the faction that is the author? Why is the important matter of the Tempter announced today at 11:40 a.m.? And at 11:30, don't you have to be talking about the Cook? Or would those who are in the hall offer a good offer? Why is Kuyalnik spent an hour and a half, and an important subject of health care reform was announced in a reduced procedure in its time? Because Kuyalnik will have medical procedures, and this is also part of medical reform. And then in two minutes of changing the system, we talked about, in two minutes, and now we don't know what to do with it, and we're spending so much time on the Cocksucker. And we're talking about the Church during the Creature, whatever you want. So I urge the presiding officer right now, as you have done quite faithfully: in speaking to the MPs who are not in the room, not to give a word. Now announce the roll call that is in the hall, and let's publish it, vote and publish it in "The Gazette." Let people see, when it comes to the issues of state property, the national glory of the Cooking House, the people who say that they're patriots of their own state, they're not at work. Please be consistent in everything. I've dedicated my entire speech to the Cooker. I don't have to take my word for it. "Cooker" is more than anything, be healthy!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u65	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oksana Korchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u66	Praise Jesus Christ! I'm really asking you to support Mrs. Hanna Romanyuk's bill, Bill 8502. I'm sorry, Romanova, I'm sorry. And number 8502. Because this bill brings us back to those areas and possibilities, these sanitariums that are really, really important to us for neuropathics and neuroscientists. Unfortunately, we've lost these sanitariums in Crimea, and unfortunately we don't have the capacity to treat our neuro-managed people right now. And this is the only really analog, the nadar of this territory is the only analogy that can give that medical care to our sick and our sick and make it easier for them. Such treatment is needed once every six months. I'm also asking the National Deputies to support, in a mandatory manner, that the Lermontowski sanatorium be handed over to the Ministry of Defence, there are no provocations. Because there are national MPs who are trying to make this sanatorium unique, where all the wounded in the war, our boys and girls are trying to leave them in the hands of private owners. You definitely can't do that. And so all the MPs who are going to provoke this situation so that this sanatorium doesn't become the property of the Ministry of Defense are the people who are against our defenders. Glory to Ukraine! Praise our protectors!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's MP Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u69	Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we certainly support this bill. Swindler is a unique place, it's the first sanatorium to host the Donbass movers, it's a city where the professional team works. But I also want to remind you that this issue needs to be addressed in a complex way. We have the most unique resort, the Slovenian resort. The resort, which was joined by the Zecas, was supported by the spines and provided the best procedures today. Unfortunately, today, the Slovenian resort is the only place left in Ukraine where people are in wheelchairs, where boys from the highlands today, where they're going from all over the world to get help to get people on their feet. But unfortunately, for the fourth year in a row, people are trying to destroy this place, although the Slovenian resort first gave blood to the military, the Slovenian resort first provided assistance to the displaced, the Slovenian resort first aided those boys who were taken from the front. But today, the Slovenian resort is being destroyed, reorganized, tried to take away natural resources, take away the shells, and simply sell out the unique land. The army thanked the Slovenian resort and liberated the hull, but after that, as a locust, various powerful men came running in and tried to pick up the Slovenian resort in tiny pieces today. I want to remind you that no criminal authority in our country has touched the Slovenian resort, realizing that it is a cradle of peace and protection for Donbas. But today, power is not. He's being bullied and he wants to completely destroy this place. And that is why I appeal to you, distinguished national MPs, to you, speaker and chairman of Parliament, to join forces together to protect today's unique natural capabilities that the Lord God has given us to protect the communities that are working there today, to protect the right of people to truly rehabilitate and get back on their feet. And I ask that my statement be counted as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office, to the NABU, to the CIA, to the National Police. To deal urgently with the situation at the Slovenian resort, to stop the raiding of this resort today, to stop the abuse today from those points of peace, the points of strength of Donbas, which today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u71	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u72	Please stop the abuse that today, in the war, can be said to be tried by covering up war, stealing, looting and destroying what has for decades been considered the cradle of peace and the future of Donbas. And today, Slovenian is a symbol of Ukrainian Donbas. And when the whole city sees the authorities robbing the Slovenian resort, they understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners! I certainly urge everyone to support this bill, because it looks at the same time and to some extent regional. But from another point of view, he's completely state-owned. Because it's really about restoring state policy to support, restoring places of recovery, resting our people. And in this context, the Kuyalnik in Odessa is a unique place, and you can't compare it to anything. Today in Ukraine, obviously, there are natural mineral resorts in the territory of, say, Lviv, other areas, and there are extremely important sources of interest that we use to treat a variety of diseases. But once again I emphasize: The swindler and his mineral sources are unique. And this is certainly an example of how important it is today to develop regional-level policies in support of local communities. Because it is the healing and healing of our resorts, in this case in the Odessa region, that can be a serious source for filling local budgets. And this is just an example of successful, let's say, decentralization reforms and the future of these areas. So, of course, I urge everyone to support this bill. But I would now like to address the presiding officer and all those who speak from this rostrum to be extremely correct in their statements. We're being listened to by the radio. And when you, Sir Head, talk to them and say there are no deputies in the hall, they think the hall is empty. Then who are you working with here? So what I'd like to say is that language is a very specific element, and if there's no part of the MPs in the room, you say so. If you are persistent in your work, then let us, in fact, publish in the newspaper a list of those who are absent during important ballots. And to call 10 or 100 times into the session room of those who don't have one, I think we're wasting our time. So once again, there are extremely responsible, decent deputies in the hall today, and they are in the workplace. Let us find out who is not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u75	Thank you. And I want to point out that it was the people's deputies who were saying that there were no people in the room. And I urged everyone to come, and I warned them that I would publish. And I urge that every law, I emphasize, that every law that stands in the order of the day should have the required number of votes. Just breaking the law is not a state's position. And so I emphasize that each of you has the ability to look to the right, to the left, and to invite the national MPs into the hall, too. So let me stress, in literally five to seven minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. I remind all the factions once again to invite deputies into the hall, and once again I emphasize that in five minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, please, for Martovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the chairman spoke of the absence of deputies. I don't know which factions are missing, the Opposition Block, the faction is almost complete, and we will certainly support the bill, because for us the issues and interests of the people living in the territories that supported us during the parliamentary elections are priority issues, because unfortunately, such issues and problems related to the people living in the Odessa region in other areas that divide our views, which are very close to the moral and ethical values of us, are being considered very little because the current government is not paying attention to the needs of the people in question. With regard to the issue under consideration, of course, we support the idea of granting the status of the natural territories of the Kuyalnicke Lyman Odessa District, the status of the Cooking House of State importance. But why did the question finally come up? And it came from the fact that the author of this bill, as the author of an alternative bill, the members of the Opposition Block faction, not only did they have natural properties, because for many years people have traveled to the locations and were treated, treated their diseases. And it's because of the end of the regime, the chaos, the turmoil that prevails in Ukraine, that there's been a serious technological catastrophe, a serious threat to the safety and preservation of the natural healing properties of the area. Regrettably, in order to contain the alleged clout from the central executive authorities exercising appropriate authority on the ground, we need to resort to this decision. And unfortunately, I have concerns about the results of today's vote. Each faction wants to accuse another faction of the absence of deputies. But let's face it. Now there's no vast majority of coalitions, because Wednesday isn't their day. They're here on Tuesday. In a larger warehouse, they will be present on Thursday, tomorrow. To them, defense issues are, of course, more of a priority than the questions that we are considering today. And I have a constructive proposal for the chairman. If we don't vote in the course of a rating vote or any other vote, I have a proposal to start a discussion of the mentioned question tomorrow, Thursday, and still take a decision by a majority of the concerned MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u77	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done here. Now the closing statement from the reporters, and then we move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, so in three or four minutes, the decision is made. Everyone, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please contact Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u78	Dear national MPs, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners! Now we're discussing a very important topic. And it's not just one resort that we're currently fighting for in Restoration, it's a matter of a strategic approach to our country's development. The point is that internal tourism can give Ukraine tens of billions of dollars. We don't get it now. I'm just going to call these little numbers. Do you know how many foreigners came to Ukraine last year? Not more than 14 million. Do you know how many Ukrainians went on vacation for a tourist purpose last year? 27 million. In fact, even Ukrainians themselves because of imperfect infrastructure, because of our neglected resorts, because the Ukrainians themselves do not know about the unique territories, the tourist facilities in their home country, they go out and take their money abroad. So Ukraine is going to lose in this. What is needed to boost our Ukrainian tourism industry? Three things are needed. The first is political will. We have to show it right now. The second is the development of the tourist infrastructure: it's roads, it's a railway, it's an airport in every big city in Ukraine to unite the country. Now I'm being told and people are complaining that they can't buy tickets anymore to our popular winter resorts in Western Ukraine. If you go to the website, you don't sell tickets. This must be decided that Ukrainians cannot travel normally in their country. And the third thing that we need is the promotion of our tourist product. When I was talking about the Cooker, you know, 50 percent of the people I went to asked where it was. We have a dead sea in Ukraine that we don't even know about. So now I'm thanking everyone who came out of this rostrum today, and you've seen that there is no representative, no faction to support the bill. It is only in the political will to come and vote today. But I am absolutely sure that we will vote. I'd like to talk about two more bills. Yes, indeed, there's one major -- 8502, the other is an alternative. They're identical. They're absolutely identical. So I propose to unite the hall, representatives of various factions, around a single bill. For example, I don't care what it is. Maybe it's logical to be the main one, 8502. But if.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u80	But if they're identical to their content, which is to assigning the Kuyalnik Lyman to the status of a public resort, i.e. it doesn't matter whose name it is, it doesn't matter which faction, you have to make Kuyalnik a resort, and give representatives of the local self-government authorities a tool to get investors involved, and to create a fully-fledged resort where our children, the ATO soldiers, are treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u81	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u82	All those who wish for Ukraine. In general, it would be very nice for every Ukrainian national MP to rest in Ukraine. And let's vote, and we'll go straight to the Kuyalnicke Lyman to rest, thereby supporting the Ukrainian tourism industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u83	Thank you. So, colleagues, the closing statement is Bachelor's Tetjana Dmitrovna. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, get back to their jobs, get ready to vote. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! Thank you so much for all the speeches, they were all right, that's something to support. Someone there needs ministries to get this treatment facility, but we all understand that our Ukrainians are being treated there. If it is an international resort with Moldova or with other countries, it will be very nice. There, more than ten Ukrainian diseases are being treated, and it is vital to the healing of our Ukrainians. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Not only is he curative but he is not only curative, but he is also a matter of national security in our country. Thank you. Support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u85	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. Once again, I ask everyone to take up their jobs, get back out of bed, get ready for the vote. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. I want to remind you, we have two bills: 8502 and 8502-1. They're little different in content, but the committee has offered us, the committee, to accept 8502 as a basis and as a whole. That is, the committee advised the Supreme Council of Ukraine to unite around one basic bill that had been prepared. Anna Romanova said: “It doesn’t matter which one of them. But I think it'll be right if we listen to the committee's position and support 8502. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the Kuyalnicke Lyman of the Odessa Region as a State-owned resort (8502) for the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, every vote matters, please support, vote, vote. [[11:45:35]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed. I welcome all the authors and the alternative bill for your work. I'm sure you support the basic law. And, colleagues, we've demonstrated once again that if we mobilize, the Supreme Council can and will work effectively and effectively. So, colleagues, the next one we have is a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Participation of young people in the process of reforming the state." Colleagues, let's also support him together. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:46:38]] For 118 118 is not free to cancel, let's go in full. But we'll probably be finished after lunch. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism is again introducing a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Participation of young people in the process of reforming the state". On September 4, this year, the Supreme Council did not vote in order to hold these hearings. For two months we asked that this decree be voted on for parliamentary hearings on November 21st, 18th. However, since all the lines have been lost, please move the hearings to the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including in paragraph 1 of the draft decision, replace the words "21 November 2018" with the words "20 February 2019" and then the text. And in paragraph 2 of the draft decision, replace the words "by 1 October 2018" with the words "by 30 January 2019" and then the words "by the text." Please support Ukrainian youth today and vote in favour. Today, there are over 11 million young people between the ages of 14 and 35 in Ukraine, a quarter of the population of our nation. What is important is that half of them are willing to personally join the community’s initiatives. Young people want to change their lives, the lives of their regions, and the state as a whole. That is why changes and reforms in Ukraine require a fundamental review of the relationship between the government and the generation of young Ukrainians. Conducting parliamentary hearings on this subject will help to increase young people's participation in decision-making processes, public administration and community affairs, increase their social activity, and develop youth policies in Ukraine as a tool for involving young people in forming a state. We need to define the strategic orientations of national youth policies in the direction of: participation of young people in the development of local communities; development of local youth initiatives; resolution of problems for young people at regional and national levels; identification of the role and place of young people in reforms in Ukraine; reform of the support system for young people, including housing issues; employment issues for young people; reform of the support of young families; encouragement and support for scientific and scientific research initiatives for young people; promotion of a healthy and safe way of life for young people and national and patriotic education. Dear colleagues, please support the draft decree and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please support the Ukrainian youth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Now the question to the reporter. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to record a question. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u88	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, it's nice that we adopted the previous bill in the first reading, that's a big plus. And God would have let the will of our national deputies be in the hall today to give this honor to our young people. And I'd love to. But I have a question. The question I'd like to ask you is, why is it so disrespectful to our national deputies, as you think, to the young people of our country who want to come here, who want to hold parliamentary hearings, who want to show themselves and change us in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u89	Thank you, thank you for asking. I think it's a rhetorical question, because those colleagues who are in the room right now, they support, hopefully, this determination. And young people have always been the engine of change and reform in the country. Just mention the Dignity Revolution, just mention the Ukrainian-Russian war, where young people who actively defend a country with guns in their hands and participate actively in reforms. Therefore, I believe that I hope that colleagues will support this decision of our committee and vote in favour of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Kishkar Paul conveys the word to Krivenkov, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u91	Victor Krivenko, head of the interfractional association Plast in Parliament. We've been together for two years, colleagues, with you for five million dollars. And I thank my colleague Jaroslav Markevich for this initiative and that Parliament supports the development of Plast. Next year we have 7 million dollars. To my profound belief, if we had spent as much as a million dollars since the year 91 supporting youth organizations involved in national patriotic education, there would have been no occupation of Crimea or Donbas. Yesterday we had a briefing with the heads of various organizations that were raising young people, and we turned to them, and I'm now repeating this to my fellow MPs to join the development of the program, the real national patriotic education program, and by December 20, they've made their proposals, just like the public activists who are now hearing us, and they're worried about this. And we're going to make a proposal to the government by January 20th. The same was true of us, for example, according to the Ukrainian Language Ordinance, which introduced 10 years later, the government was to give its own in two months. The program text has already been approved. We've been collecting proposals a month before -- to date when the government was supposed to make its proposals and decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u92	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u93	Yeah. Thank you. We were collecting proposals, here is Paul Yuhimovich Grizenko, other outstanding experts in the Ukrainian language, and we made proposals to the government 20 days before the end of the two-month term given by the President's decree. What? Seven months -- there's no Ukrainian language development program that they were going to do. So in the 15th year, the President's decree on national patriotic upbringing came up in the 17th year with a plan of action, a weak plan of action. And we urge all of you, as well as you, to take care of this as the head of the subcommittee, to join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u94	As the first deputy head of the Committee of the Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, he meant that our committee was also actively involved in the development of programs (I think you know this) and supported all youth initiatives, and, in particular, issues related to youth lending and a number of others. So in the person of our committee, you have that lobbyist of youth issues that are now relevant in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u95	Thank you. And the final question from Macola Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u96	Good afternoon! Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. You know, it's not even a question, more support to the reporter, because, really, such things are very important. You know, our young people really can work, they know what to do, they have a lot of valuable ideas that can be applied not only at the state level, but at the local level and anywhere. And that's why it's supported. The only thing I really want to say is that people get together a little bit, because it's really important, and we need to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that young people are actively trying to get involved in different processes. And that's why it's so important to be able to speak, to discuss these issues, and to identify the orientations for the next period.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Mikola Romanovich, for the meaningful report. Now, colleagues. You can take your place. And now I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups. Who intends to participate in the discussion, please participate in the record. Please. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u99	Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u100	They're sporing. Then from "The Fatherland" Eutuszek. Then you'll be on the Front. But, colleagues, after the statement from Peter Prashenko's Block, we announce a recess and continue the discussion after the break at 12:30. So please, Mr. John, turn it on. Oh, from the rostrum, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u101	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, just as our first deputy chairman of the committee reported that we still cannot hold parliamentary hearings for young people to participate in state construction. You know, it's so embarrassing, as much as it does, that we're going through this hearing once and for all. Every time we move, because today we have to do it again, as we said, we have to think about how our young people today would be able to show up here in this room. After all, there are plenty and lots of questions, such as the participation of young people in the development of local communities. We know well that in connection with the unification of communities we need to do more, and we know more that our young people are going abroad, we should think about jobs, we should think about how to give our young people a job and do everything we can to keep them in Ukraine. And it is very important for local councils to think for young people when uniting the territorial communities, to allocate funds to create jobs in the budget. That's pretty important. The development of local youth initiatives is also question number one. What I'm saying is that solving the problem of young people at the regional and state level is what we should discuss, young people should discuss in this room. Identifying the role and place of young people in reforms that are taking place in Ukraine, and this is very important because of the reforms that are taking place. We have to involve young people in this. The reform of the youth support system would also be desirable, especially the solution to housing issues. Well, as I was saying, employment issues for young people. Housing issues are also question number one, because if we do everything we can to keep our young people where they live, there were cheap loans, we can also save our young people. So I'd really like us to adopt more than 230 votes as well as the first drafts. And I would also like us to confirm today the question of parliamentary hearings in our Hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u102	Thank you. So, colleagues, as we agreed, we'll continue the discussion after the break. And I'll remind you of the sequence: the first one after the break is the representative of "The Fatherland" (which is likely to be John Krulco), then the representative of the Radical Party, then the representative of the People's Front. I'm asking you to come to the conference room at 12:30. Then there will be speeches by the national deputies, and so those who wish to speak will be able to sign up at the time of the recording. Now I want to read another message that came to the presidency. "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputies, Shipk Andria. A statement. Please consider my vote in favour of the draft Law 8502, which applies to actually the Cooker. I'm making this public, Mr. Andrew, so that your voters will know your public position. I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u103	So, colleagues, I'm reminding you that we're considering a draft of the Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine on "Participation of Young People in the Reformation of the State." The sequence of the performances after the break. From "The Fatherland" Ivan Krulko. Then from the People's Front, from the Radical Party. And then, colleagues, there'll be speeches from the national MPs. Mr. Ivan, good afternoon to you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u104	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, holding parliamentary hearings about youth policies that relate to the situation of Ukrainian youth is an important thing. And "Paternity" has always supported not only the holding of such parliamentary hearings, but also introduced bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that deal not only with questions that have been discussed or discussed, but also with regard to the adoption of real changes that would solve some of the problems of young people. And if we really want to form a situation in Ukraine where young Ukrainian citizens don't go abroad and are motivated to work here, to raise the Ukrainian economy, to pay taxes, to form families, to give birth to children, it's only possible if, really, from words to words, the government will eventually move on to concrete action. Because in fact, the key problem why Ukrainian youth are going abroad and not seeing their future in Ukraine today is that, unfortunately, no decisions are made that apply to young people. What young people need today. Young people need a fundamental solution to the problem of housing. What program exists with regard to granting loans so that a young person can buy a home or a young family can buy a home? None. All programs have been suspended. And in all these years of government, no loan has been made to a young family so that a young family can buy a home that has not been allocated. Can a young person today find a job, a first job, and how is this first job guaranteed? In no way can he find his first job. What is the situation in which we are born? The birth, unfortunately, is falling. And we certainly think that the solution to the whole range of social issues about youth policy and the situation of young people can change, fundamentally, the situation where young Ukrainian citizens return from abroad to Ukraine. Can a young man today open and run a business in Ukraine? No, because this business is going to be immediately under attack, and in fact the tax system is designed in such a way that a young person today cannot maintain this business. That's why the Fatherland faction proposes to hold such hearings, but, at the same time, adopt real legislation, such as the Youth Bill, which is registered and initiated by the Fatherland faction, which should change the situation that should bring Ukrainian young citizens back to the Ukrainian state and create conditions for them not to want to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u105	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u106	And create conditions for young people not to want to leave, but instead to work and be motivated by the Ukrainian state. Then we're going to be okay and we're going to be safe, then we're going to be okay and we're going to be okay and we're going to be born, and, of course, we're going to be filling the Ukrainian budget with taxpayers, and young people are going to be very happy to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u107	Thank you. From the faction of the Radical Party of Linko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u108	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We are actually seeing a disgraceful situation where for the third time we are putting this decision to a vote and we cannot vote, the Supreme Council does not support the Parliamentary Hearing Order on Young People's Problems. This is a disgraceful situation. It's not even a decision of some kind, it's not a law that supports young people, it's just a decision to discuss. Allowing young people here to talk about their problems so that they can hear them in this room. And even this little Supreme Council can't do this for the third time. Let's finally support young people at least in this. What's more, the Radical Party is talking about supporting young people with real steps, with real tools. This is a restoration of youthful lending of housing. Families are not created, young people do not create families, and they do not give birth to new children when there is no stability, where there is no place to live and raise these children. Young people leave Ukraine because there is no way to find a job, there is no way to create their own business. When a young person with ideas, with a sense of talent, wants to make a startup here, she can't get thousands of dollars of credit, so she's going abroad, with her hands, with her legs taken to the best clubs, into the best businesses, and her ideas are being implemented, and they're making billions of Western countries, and Ukraine is losing billions every year, and millions of young people are losing. And the most important situation. In fact, you will not find a young person in the village of Ukraine because there is no work there because there is no land or opportunity to feed your family in the village. So it is very important to support young people in rural areas. And for that, we've proposed an initiative, and it's supported by the Supreme Council, and the Constitutional Court has made a positive conclusion about changing the Constitution and finally writing that the fundamentals of the agricultural system in Ukraine are farming. Farming, family, when the land passes from parent to child, is passed over, and young people will be farmers in the village, only to protect the Ukrainian village. After a few generations, after 10 to 20 years, you won't find a living person in the villages, there will be bushes and wolves running. Let us still do something, from conversation to real things. And this Parliamentary Hearing Order needs to be voted on, and unfortunately, I see that there are very few people in the Chamber of Deputies, we can fail this decision for the third time and for the fourth time. It's a disgrace. Let's focus and give our young people the opportunity to live and thrive in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u109	Thank you. We have a few more speeches from the MP factions. May I have a word with the People's Will Group of National Deputy Shahov?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u110	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, the elixir of youth has not yet been invented, there is no living water today. To Whom Can I Leave the State? Today, if anyone thinks that he will live forever, no. Our young people need to be cared for today. That's right, as my colleague Vladimir Aresonkov said, who came out here, that there are MPs in the room who can come together, not in political terms, but as people who care about their state. The Chinese won't come here to build us or the Japanese. We must build as Ukrainians in order to rebuild our country, we did not go anywhere else today by the workers so that our young people would return to our country. Each of you knows and communicates with his children, and sees the situation that young people today do not want to go to city councils, to district councils, to the Supreme Council. Everyone's afraid, like the coolest, Supreme Council. And we need to pass on our experience to children who want to build up their state. Today, I call upon every MP present in the Hall to support this decision for our future, for the sake of Ukraine. Let's see, 10 percent of the young people today want, according to our country volunteers' statistics, who say they want to leave the state at all. What does this indicate? That now 70 percent of pensioners remain in the state. My parents are staying, and my kids are going abroad to work, to Moscow, to Peter, to Poland, to Italy. Do we have nothing to do here in a state so rich in the heart of Europe? I call today not just as a national MP, but as a man from the East, where war is going today. And by involving young people in our work, we will end this war by rebuilding our state. I say again, let's get together. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u111	Thank you. From the People's Front faction, who will act? Come to the rostrum, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u112	Glory to Ukraine! People's Front faction, Ivan Sauka. Dear colleagues! There is much to talk about, for example, about the future of our nation. We can talk and make each other guilty, well we have to think about the future, we have to think about this state that's being built, unfortunately, in the actions that are going on in the war. And today, the previous colleague who spoke from the rostrum said that there was a war going on in the east. No, war is going on throughout our country of Ukraine. It goes by name here, starting with some people populating and not saying specific things about the development of our country of Ukraine. Today, much has been said about how each one of us cares about the future of the State, and it has not been said above all about how to do it, how to rebuild it. And I want to thank those co-authors, the authors who care about the future, and their colleagues who have made this law, in these moments, a draft law that has to be put to the vote and voted. To vote for our nation, for the future of our nation. I want to give you an example, great colleagues. That in the occupied territories of our country, some camps, the so - called patriotic upbringing, are being created. Where more than four years have passed, the young generation, our young generation of Ukrainians, our children, who are targeting our country of Ukraine informationally, ideologically, more than 10,000 because of those so-called patriotic camps. We need to think about it and make sure that we are here in Ukraine, raising our children, raising our young in a patriotic spirit, loving our state. And to adopt these laws, which must maintain and do everything possible to keep our young people here in our country of Ukraine and to build our state of Ukraine, which is all up to us all. So I call upon the People's Front to call upon all of us, our honourable colleagues, to gather together and do everything possible to make our young people happy in their own God-given country of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u113	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the words of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank all the deputies who have supported the previous bill on the assignment of the Kuyalnick Lima to the status of the State resort. This is just an example of how we as statesmen can support rural areas, how to create jobs for the same youth. Because development, in fact, internal tourism is a development of agriculture, for example tourism, it's a real step for young people to get a chance to work in Ukraine, to stay in Ukraine. And as for young people, of course, this question, I think, should become one of the national priorities for our country's development today. We need to develop anti-crisis measures to stop mass youth migration from Ukraine. If we now hear our foreign minister speak, he officially says that only 1 million people have left Ukraine in recent years. How young are they? No one really knows. Because no one is conducting an analysis of the people who are leaving, who are leaving the country. We can only read and look at some sociological research. Of the people who leave our countries, what is their demographic structure, what portrait? Are they going to study? Is this a low-skilled labour force or is it qualified? But what we see among young people, what we see in surveys, more than 60 percent on the question "Do you want to leave Ukraine?"they're already saying yes. According to sociological research, only 9 percent of young people are content with their material situation in Ukraine. If you look at their problems, what is troubling today’s youth? First. It's a lack of housing and no prospects. They do not believe that in Ukraine they will reach the same financial means as they can reach abroad. And here's a myth, this stereotype is sometimes even supported by the promotional campaign of other countries that hang billboards in our cities that say "work," for example, in some country, work in Poland. We, as statesmen, need to develop a strategy to leave young people in Ukraine. What does it take? First. Youth’s Home. Since 1997, do you know how many housing programs have been given to young people? That's 30 grand. What Is the Need for Youth Housing? If you believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u115	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u116	To believe in research that at the age of 34-35, which is just the age, the average age of a person, only 50 percent of young people have their own housing, we can estimate that the need for youth construction, in youth housing, is over 5 million apartments. The state must urgently develop the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u117	Please, 30 seconds more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u118	long-term lending for young people who work in Ukraine, who are born in Ukraine, to be able to receive an apartment in Ukraine per cent, per cent of all young people who work, who give birth to children. This requires a review of the budget, unfortunately, that funding has been allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you very much. All the factions were made by representatives? Please, National Deputy Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! According to the Analytical Center of Razumkov, the national wealth structure of developed countries has a human capital of 85 percent. What do we have in Ukraine? In the 92nd year, after the same estimates in Ukraine, in the structure of national wealth, human capital was only 57 percent. What do we have today? 47 percent. This means that in 27 years, we have done everything freely or arbitrarily to ensure that the human capital in Ukraine’s national wealth is less than 50 percent. If this trend continues, not only can we not claim the top of the country, but we can claim the opposite. What is the definition? Three key elements are the cost of human capital. The first is education, quality education. The second is medicine, health care. And the third is the infrastructure of prosperity, including jobs. You can’t decide whether to do something in education or in medicine or in infrastructure. We need to find integration, synchronize these three key resources. What do we see, unfortunately, in Kabmin? We don't even have a Deputy Prime Minister who's systematically responsible for the development of human capital. Not separately on humanitarian issues, either economic, or social, or educational. We don't, so we don't have a strategic vision. What, though, must be done to develop human capital? Because human capital is primarily young people. So even if young people get a good education here, they leave because there is no infrastructure for prosperity. This is true of health care and so on. That's why we're completely, the faction of Peter Dustenka fully supports the philosophy of these hearings. In fact, the Committee on Education proposes to hold the same hearings, but systematically, on the development of human capital, so that we can actually have a national, not a parliament, not a Cabinet, not a President, but a single policy that would do the following: first, we would start a balanced development of human capital in Ukraine as a whole for the provision and development of regions; next, we would make young people have access to adequate financial resources, including grants, including youth building, including infrastructure for access to jobs. And then we can make sure that if even migration was directed, understood, and young people who were leaving made a huge added value to our Ukraine after returning. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u121	Thank you. We will now have the opportunity to continue the discussion by the National Deputies. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves for it. to participate in the recording. Please record the performance. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the importance and relevance of holding parliamentary hearings on the subject of our Ukrainian youth's participation in the process of state-building, reforming the state. Of course, it is an extremely important, extremely topical subject. My colleagues in their speeches specifically, both Mr. Spiowakovsky and others, said that the willingness for our young people to participate today is not simple. For example, when it comes to the education system, the curriculums and programs in the context of teaching civic education, the social science cycle, are today very thorough, and the general secondary school, and the higher school is doing their work in this context. So the theoretical preparation of our young people, students to participate in the lives of individual communities, to participate in the preparation of some serious, say, legislative processes, is, is interest. But what's important, and let's say my colleagues have said that, if you talk about the state strategy as a whole, about the existence of a specific state programme, unfortunately, it's all in the process of development, it's been going on for years. And when we talk about what we'd like to have a real Ukrainian -- a young patriot -- and then we complain that many young people say that they don't understand what state they need to protect and these flows today -- today the efforts of our neighbour countries to involve not just young people, but, starting at the middle of school, senior schoolchildren to teach with the possibility of giving them and living, and the future employment in these countries, these are very disturbing and serious trends. So once again, when I say in general that young people are willing to participate in these processes, their interest, we just have to provide support at the state level. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this decision, to participate in the preparations, and to support modern youth and family politics at all levels today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u123	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u124	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. Of course, Self-Help will support this decision, and we will certainly support what has been done as a result of parliamentary hearings. But I would like to draw attention today to another aspect of how and why young people are involved or not involved in state reform processes. This is a gender perspective. If we look at population economic employment statistics with you, we'll see that at 25 to 34 years of age we have 30 percent of women in general economically inactive. Well, we all understand that it's probably they're at home now, taking care of children, because that's the age when children are born in Ukraine -- 25-39 years old. Men at it. Unemployed men, economically inactive, only 10 percent. So what we're talking about is that between the ages of 25 and 34, women fall out of economic participation in the state at all, and they come out after such a big break to work are completely unapproachable to modern conditions. We do not have programs to help women in employment after they finish caring for their children. They're absolutely losing the best years of their lives to do an absolutely huge important job of having and caring for children, but they're still completely unprotected from an economic point of view, because they're wasting their time when men are doing their careers. And as I said, only 10 percent of men are economically unemployed between the ages of 25 and 34, and 30 percent of women are not accounted for anywhere at all, almost 800,000 women in Ukraine today are economically inactive between the ages of 24-34. So they're not registered anywhere, they're not formally working anywhere, they're losing opportunities and opportunities for employment. I believe that Parliament should also pay attention to the gender aspects of the participation of young people, women and men in the economic development of the State and in reform. So I think we need to focus on these aspects and keep talking about these exact moments that we need to help women in employment after leaving care of a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u125	Thank you very much. Sporeš Ivan Dmitrovich is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u126	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th Wynnickin County. Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u127	Guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u128	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, presiding officer! Today we are discussing the holding of parliamentary hearings on a very important subject: the participation of young people in reforming the state. And we know the value of parliamentary hearings, it's about a million and a half dollars from taxpayers' pockets, but the subject is important, and we support these hearings. And it is very important that the very understanding of the need for young people’s participation should come to this youth. You see, pensioners go to vote, young people don't go to vote. They were killed in the head, and they were killed by politicians who continue to rob them. If it didn't matter, no one would hang thousands of billboards for tens of millions of dollars, no one would buy TV channels, no one would try to get information on themselves in any newspaper. Because people really choose power. It is vital that we recognize this connection that we are responsible for those whom we have chosen. In 91st year, Ukrainians — more than ninety percent — voted in favour of independence on December 1, 27 years ago and elected the President of the Communist Republic. Who chose Kravchuk instead of Cranovola? Mexicans, French? The Ukrainians chose, and it was primarily the young that went into the elections inactive, and it was part of the presidential campaign. Then Mr. Kravchuk also kept the Communist Supreme Council until the year 94, and then they came up with the motto "Thank you" for the destruction and they hung him on patriots who destroyed the Soviet Union, all dogs for the economic downturn, even though they were never in power. And then the same communist who was elected in the '91st, '06 on the "No, that's not it!" I spoke Russian for integration with Russia. And a simple example, 98, when I was in the Young People's Russia, my father was going to the City Council of Dniprodjjinski of the Movement, the turn was 200 meters of pensioners who voted for Lazarus. He was voting because he paid 20 bucks a month to retire. And when I got out, he said, "Who are you selling my future to?They said, "Yes, boy, get out of here, what you understand in life." Therefore, it is vital to understand that you are obliged to vote. For hundreds of years, Ukrainians have shed blood for freedom. Will is the right to choose its power, not to have a governor-general from Moscow, Vienna or Warsaw. And whoever doesn't go to the polls doesn't take an active part in the development of the state, well, he can't respect, he can't say that he respects the military, he can't say that he respects the wife, the mother of the military, the boys in the east. That's why it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Mr. Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u130	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u131	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Respectful colleagues certainly need to support this decision, and parliamentary hearings on young people and on the status of young people in Ukraine must be held. It's a shame that we're obviously not going to be able to do this today because there aren't many national deputies in the hall, but I'd like to say the following, using this opportunity. You know, we need to understand that today Ukraine, apart from all the problems, the obvious, the screaming that we're in, has to solve the strategic tasks, in particular, to understand what our state will be like in 10, 20, 30, 50 years. And we need to understand that the first question that we have to ask ourselves is that of youth and youth politics in this respect. Because today, unfortunately, we have a very sad trend. The population of our nation is shrinking rapidly, we have a long time of extinction, it dominates birth. We realize that the general population is getting older, and young people today have little prospects in Ukraine. A large number of young people are going abroad today, and many of them will no longer return, let us speak the truth, for, unfortunately, they do. And our task today is to make such conditions in the country for young people to finally be citizens of Ukraine, but above all, young people didn't have to leave our country to be able to live here, to get a normal, decent reward for their work here, to work here, to pay taxes here, to create a family here; to have adequate state programs to provide for the first job for young people; to have appropriate programs, as Freedom has always suggested, to provide housing for young families; to have a comprehensive policy of supporting young people, supporting young families in Ukraine, supporting their birth in Ukraine. Because it's all interconnected. We don't have to let one generation in our country just don't have enough population and we just have a huge demographic hole. To that end, we need to make these necessary decisions right now. And I urge these parliamentary hearings to take place. We had a serious and thorough discussion on this subject. In order for these hearings to result not only in statements correct or not very much, but also in the adoption of specific decisions, specific bills. Because no one will wait. We don't have time, we don't have years, we don't have decades to make the necessary decisions. This must be done immediately. And then we'll have an opportunity to make it right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u133	I'd like to welcome all the volunteers of our country to our holiday. You're the best part and we're proud of you! And I give the floor to Oleg Petrenko of the People's Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u134	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u135	Thank you, Oksani Korczynski, for the opportunity to speak. I join all the volunteers who have been in Ukraine for the fourth year, the fifth year, making a huge contribution to the defense of Ukraine, in the most difficult times of the 14th year, took on what the state could not do effectively. And in a huge number of these people, they still don't give up. So, among volunteers, just remember these faces, which a huge number of young, passive, active Ukrainian youth also joined the volunteer movement, which a huge number of young people went to the front in the 14th year. Youths, who have become the main driving force in Maidan, whose shoulders and blood are largely out of control. Has our country and Ukrainian authorities owed young people? There has been a lot of talk from the rostrum that neither youthful construction nor even the Youth Law, which has been impossible for years, our cadence, can simply go into the voting room in the first reading. And once again, once again, the third time it's brought up, I just want to go to all the deputies and point out, to repeat the question, haven't we all owed our young? We should not show similar contempt for the third time. The Law on Parliamentary Hearings on Youth’s Participation in State Reform is being considered in the middle of the empty hall. Young people are reforming it, thus changing their own efforts: creating jobs, teaching themselves, and seeking happiness abroad, returning to Ukraine. But our task is to hold parliamentary hearings, hear from the high parliamentary rostrum to hear our young people and then do their legislative work, implementing everything we hear from young people, already in our legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u136	Thank you. And the closing statement is Sverk Grigory Aronovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Please give the floor to the colleague of Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u138	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Here we are with you today, discussing this issue, wondering exactly how parliamentary hearings are going. Because today we've discussed how much we've given him, how much we've given him, what it would look like, well, no national MP who's in the room today will vote in favour of this issue and not be indifferent. But now we imagine that we're on December 20, when this question is asked and the full hall of our young people, our young people in the hall, the full hall, and this is everyone who will be in this room, this is also your entire electorate, it can. They will represent the whole of Ukraine. And so I would very much like us to take this very seriously, because we've already had to look at the parliamentary hearings by October 1st, we haven't considered it. We were to consider it by November 21, and we did not consider it. And it's going to be very common when by December 20, when this decision takes effect, and we have to hold these parliamentary hearings, and we're not going to look at them again, even though how much is said in this room. Now all the young Ukrainians are looking at us and saying, "Lord, are they really thinking of us?" Yes, God would have given it to all of us together to really think for our young people, who should change us again in this room, which should think and lead our country to Europe. So I urge that we all join together now and, just like the first draft of the law, we voted, and that is exactly how we supported our young people today and gave them the opportunity to change us in the hall, and to do it at the right time without. Parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u139	Thank you, colleagues. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And, colleagues, I want to inform you that we've held a committee on this matter of consultation, and if the ruling doesn't get the right number of votes now, the committee will move it immediately. And I promise that next plenary week we will consider it at a time when there will be a maximum concentration of deputies. Let's set a new date for us to hold parliamentary hearings, colleagues. I'm telling you again, I promise. We made a deal with the committee, the committee will move it. We're going to set the most optimal date so that there's enough time to prepare for parliamentary hearings. And this question will no longer have any drag. Mr. John, and I promise you. And we're going to set a date together with the committee and we're going to have serious parliamentary hearings, colleagues. So I'm saying we don't have to worry about that. We talked about the problem. And once again, the committee will move to the next plenary week, to the best of times, and I will put it to the vote, and we will jointly set a new date for parliamentary hearings. What is more, the question concerns the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and it has an easy and simple procedure for translation. But now we're going to have a formal vote. And I'm asking you to take part in it. And I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 9126. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:16:43]] For the 110. Insufficient number of votes. But as I promised, next week we will consider it at the most optimal time. As I'm told by our lawyers, it doesn't even need to be submitted to the committee again, because it's a matter of organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If so, next Tuesday we will be able to consider it and make a decision. Colleagues, our next question is a question from a block of agrarian politics that we never got to. A question that has about 100 rights. And I will, according to our tradition, propose, agree with the committee, that we go through the proceedings today, and tomorrow we put it up and vote. This is a position that will allow us to save an hour and a half tomorrow to look at the rights. We'll be able to talk to the authors today, and tomorrow at the highest concentration, we'll put this law to the vote. And I'm sure we'll support it all, because it's united and united. This will enable us to save time on Thursday, and today it will allow us to discuss this bill thoroughly and seriously. And that's why we're going to the next draft of the Consumer Information Act (No.8450). I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Juršin Petr Vasilovich to report. He asked his colleagues to give him the floor for the report. I don't think anyone's going to deny that we're going to give Buckumenko and then we're going to go to the right. And I ask all right-wing authors to come to the hall and prepare to discuss the draft Law. Peter Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u140	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on November 20, 2018, discussed a bill on consumer information on food (Registration No. 8450) prepared for second reading. The bill has 68 amendments, including 14 amendments, which have been partially counted at 1, and 53 amendments have been rejected. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend Bill 8450 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law. The draft Ukrainian Food Information Act has been developed in accordance with the comprehensive strategy for the implementation of Chapter IV "Sanitary and phytosanitary measures" of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since February 24 at number 228. The proposed project aims to bring Ukrainian legislation in line with the Regulation of the European Union 1169 of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers. The draft law provides for a comprehensive settlement of all issues related to the provision of food information to consumers. At the same time, the number of sub-legislative acts needed to introduce a new approach to providing information to consumers is minimal. The draft law prohibits the use of information that could mislead consumers. The ban is extended to the promotion and presentation of food products. In view of the above, an important aspect of the bill is the provision of accurate, reliable and comprehensible average citizens of food products. By bringing Ukraine’s legislation into line with the European Union’s legislation on the provision of food products to consumers, all food market players win. The market operator will have uniform rules for providing consumers with information on food products that will ensure legal certainty and reduce administrative burden on market operators and liability. This will help to ensure legal certainty and reduce administrative burdens, especially for market operators who are best placed to buy products.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u141	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u142	In view of the foregoing, I propose a draft Ukrainian Law on Information for Consumers on Food to be adopted as a law as a whole. Please, colleagues, back up. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u143	Thank you, Peter Vasilovich. As we agreed, I'll give my word to the head of the committee. Is it from the place? Mr. Buckumenko. And then we're going to go to the right-hand side. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head, thank you for your word. Because this bill is overwhelming, it is our commitment to an agreement with the European Union. And it is most important from the state of sanitary standards that Ukraine must implement in front of our partners. Providing consumer information about a food product using accompanying documents, modern means of distance communication, and so forth is an important way of informing consumers about the characteristics of a food product, including its category, characteristics, characteristics, composition, quantity, suitability, country of origin or place of origin, way of producing or producing a food product. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure that consumers are properly informed about the food they eat. Making it possible for consumers to make informed choices based on their health, preferences, economic levels, essential both to ensure effective competition and to improve consumer well - being and to address today’s problems of obesity, hypertension, overweight, and diabetes. The draft law prohibits the use of information that may mislead the consumer. The ban also extends to the promotion and presentation of food products. In view of the above, an important aspect of the bill is the provision of accurate, reliable and comprehensible average citizens of food products. The main novelty of the draft law should be noted: the setting of requirements for the provision of information on allergens; the introduction of the same requirements and the provision of information on food products; the sale, which is carried out in a remote manner, including the use of remote products and food products sold in the store; the requirement to provide information on the use of refined oil or vegetable fat in the food product, such as palm oil; the provision of information to the consumer on whether a food product has been frozen or defrosted; the application of a new approach to Ukraine to the indication of the suitability of food depending on whether the food product is rapidly contaminated with microbiological properties. I want to emphasize for all of us. This information for consumers and this information for you, for all of us, our children, our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u145	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u146	30 seconds. We're protecting the consumer first. Giving him true, honest information is the health of the Ukrainian nation. The bill was drafted on a committee with all experts, associations, and it is fully in line with European standards. Please support him. Thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u147	Thank you. So let's move on to the discussion. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. We're going to read the names of all the right-wing authors. Those who intend to speak may be informed by raising their hands. And I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksani Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u148	Amendment number one, national deputy of Kolesnikov. Don't insist. Please, that is, the amendment number 2 is also the national deputy Kolesnikov and a number of other amendments. I then ask the committee representative to comment on these amendments on why they were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, since there is no Kolesnik today, and most of its amendments have been rejected, I want to say that the adoption of this law will allow today, namely, a good buyer, a consumer to buy quality products. And we are obliged to produce quality products by the unscrupulous producer. In case of sanctions, administrative, possibly criminal, fines will be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u150	Thank you. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Don't insist. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputy Kolesnikov. I've already explained to the committee. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Amendment No. 6 of the people's MP Macoli. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u151	Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. In general, the law is good and right, but is there any question why my number 6 amendment was rejected? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u152	The honourable national deputies, namely, the European Union’s legislation, do not contain this definition. It is planned to address the issue of nutrition claims and health claims under the relevant legislation currently being developed with the involvement of the Ministry of Health. Did that satisfy you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u153	Thank you. Amendment No. 13 of the people's MP Macoli. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u154	The amendment applies equally to this law. So, in Article 4 of Chapter III, "General requirements for information on food products and the obligations of food market operators", paragraph (2) between the words "reliable" and the words "necessary and timely" should be inserted. You know, I think it's important information, and it has the right to exist in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u155	Please comment on the committee representative
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u156	The text adopted in the first reading meets the requirements of part two of Article 7 of the Rules of the European Union 1169/2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u157	For confirmation. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u158	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We always make laws that actually improve our business, that improve the ability of exporters to export their products directly, that's good. We have to completely control the entire food chain that is today, and consumers have to get information. But, Mrs. Oksana, I can't go past. You know, we talk about people all the time, but we don't make any laws for people, just those who do business, those who do exports. And for the time being, Madam Chairman, and for the time being yesterday, there was a call by farmers on the Moratorium Continuation Act, and today, Madam Chairman, Madam Chairman, and today, a reference to the next law is to make permanent use of the land. It was in 2002 that people got the land, and then they took away the notion of permanent use from the Earth Code. People are dying, and no one can pass this earth on to anyone. That's what they've been demanding for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u159	Please tell me, what kind of amendment do you want to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u160	The 15th edition, Mr. Macola's.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Thank you. Let's keep going. Correction number. What amendment? Call me the repair number. 16th? 16 Amendment Rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u162	Yes, I'd like it to be counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u163	The amendment of the people's deputy Kolesnikov? You put it on. Please, there is a national vote. [[13:31:49]] For-27 Amendment number 20. Amendment 20, National MP Macola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u164	Madam Chairman, but I would like to ask you to put my number six, thirteen and this one, 20, on confirmation, so that we can actually see how it reacts to these room changes. And Amendment 20 refers to article 6, chapter III, of the mandatory information on food. Paragraph (2) of Part One, add paragraph (9) of the Production Party. Accordingly, paragraphs 9 to 12 are considered to be paragraphs 10 to 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u165	Thank you. And please comment. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I have answered your question that this is exactly what the Rules of the European Union of 1169 take into account. And I'm asking you to make your changes for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u167	Please, the people's MP Macola. Turn on the microphone. What adjustments do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u168	6-y, 13-y and 20-y for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u169	Okay. Please put Amendment 6 to the vote. [[13:33:30.]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the number 13 of the people's MP Macoli. Ask for backup. Please vote. [[13:33:50]] For-43 The decision is not taken. And amendment number 20 of the people's MP Macola. Ask for backup. Please vote. [[13:34:09]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is National Deputy Ivchenka number 29 and number 31. I'd like two minutes to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u170	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll tell you who was yelling from the hall. The question is that they have once forgotten to write about the inheritance of land for permanent use. They were even removed from the Earth Codex. And today, these lands move from dead farmers to the direct holdingokadastre, and then it manages as it pleases. And the farmer wants to inherit it for his children, for his grandchildren, so that they can do farming. That is exactly what it says that we need to improve land legislation in the area of sustainable land use. As far as I'm concerned. I don't understand how you worked on a committee or on a subcommittee, why are most of your rights rejected? I'm looking at a table, it's rejected almost all of the changes, including mine. The EU regulation states that the name, not the name directly, should be 1.2 millimetres or more. I suggested exactly 2 millimeters, because when people take, they don't see these 1.2 millimeters. And specifically where it should be, so that every person knows that there are two-millimeter digits beside the name, where it's clearly indicated, where this product is made, where it can be used, and so on and so forth. This information has to be in one place, and it has to be bigger numbers for grandparents and people of old to at least see what's written. I've offered two millimeters, you're writing to me, it's rejected that it doesn't fit the Rules. But at the moment, I'm sure what the Rules say, and let's read it: 1.2 millimeters, but maybe if Ukrainian legislation decides more, more, but definitely not less. So I ask that we put this right here to confirm and think directly about the consumer who is today buying a product that wants to see the numbers clearly when they're made and how long can we use the food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u171	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u172	According to the European Union’s legislation, the honourable national MP Yvchenko must be visible, clear, and selective. For this purpose, Regulation 1169 lays down requirements for the size of the font to be given all the necessary information about the food. Therefore, it is determined that the height of small letters without bearing elements, which indicates the mandatory food product information, should be equal to or greater than 1.2 millimeters. So the lower limit for the 1.2 font is set. At the same time, market operators may choose a bigger font if the surface of the package or packaging technically allows all the required information to be placed in a larger font. In doing so, it should be noted that the height of small letters used in markings in Ukraine for today is much lower than that of 0.8 millimetres compared to those of the European Union. So the font increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u173	Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u174	lets the text printed in the markup be clear and selective. The proposed changes to the proposed text do not contain any grounds and may be a burden for market operators responsible for the availability of information on the food product. But we thank you very much for your concern so that the consumer can clearly read that there is a product that matches that name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Next amendment. And, yes, please vote, amendment number 29 of national MP Yvchenka first, requesting support. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:38:46]] For-47 The decision is not taken. And amendment number 31 of the national MP Ivchenka. He's asking for support. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[13:39:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is Balitsky. Don't insist. 32nd, Lucenko. 32 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Lucenko Irina He's not in the hall. 36th People's Deputy of Balitsky. Don't insist. 37th People's Deputy of Balitsky. Don't insist. 38th. National MP Macola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u176	Roman Macola, 190th constituency, Hmelnicka district. You know, once again, the law is good and right. But I think this amendment is important to me, and so I'm going to ask it to be confirmed. In article 15, Chapter III, "Compulsory information on food products" add the following: "The designation "without lactose" can be made only if the lactose content in food products sold to the final consumer does not exceed 0.01 grams of lactose per 100 grams of food." In article 15 of Section III, "Comprehensible food information", add the following: "The designation "with low lactose" can be made only if the food containing or containing one or more ingredients made of milk or milk products contains not more than 1 gram of lactose per 100 gram of food sold to the final consumer." In article 15 of Section III, "Compulsory information on food products", add the following: "Food products declared as lactose-free products should be specially produced, prepared and/or processed."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u177	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u178	"Harves products claimed to be lactose-free products must be specially produced, prepared and/or processed in such a way as to avoid contamination with premixtures of other lactose-containing milk products." Thank you. I want to get an answer and I'm putting it on, don't forget, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u179	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! Since we are considering a Euro-Integration Bill today and the European Union legislation does not contain such requirements, it is therefore planned to address the issue of claims of nutritional value and health benefits under the relevant legislation currently being developed with the involvement of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Amendment 39. Please vote. Amendment number 38. Please vote. [[13:43:21]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 39, the amendment of the People’s Deputy Kolesnikov. Declined. He doesn't insist. Amendment number 40. It's counted. Amendment number 41. A national MP does not insist. People's MP Bakumenko, please. Please declare the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u182	Amendment number 42. It's considered by the committee, but I just want to emphasize to the national MPs why it's so important. Part four of article 17 reads: "If a fasciated unit of food consists of two or more fascilitated units, each of which is not intended for individual implementation, the nominal quantity of food is defined as the total nominal quantity and number of individual units of food, or the nominal number of individual units of food and the number of individual units of food." This amendment refers to the determination of the number of fasciated foods and their reflection on labelling. The proposed amendment allows the food market operator to choose how to determine the quantity of food if the fasciated unit of food consists of two or more fascilitated units, each of which is not intended for individual implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u183	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u184	The proposed amendment will allow the market operator to choose the nominal number of individual food units and the number of individual food units. This regulation does not make it worse for consumers to protect their rights, because in any case, consumers remain informed about the number of fascisms, but it will give market operators the right to choose how to provide information on the quantity of food in the specified case. This is a committee-based amendment, you don't have to put it. But I read it to make it clear why the committee had decided to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u185	Thank you. A national MP does not insist on voting. The next amendment that is rejected is Amendment 43. A national MP does not insist. 44 revisions. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to turn the whole room into this problem. What's the problem, colleagues, look. Article 65, which defines the list of offences in the relevant sphere, does not provide for the responsibility of the food market operator to make any changes to the food product information accompanying the food. And this is a guaranteed violation of article 50 of the Ukrainian Constitution, where consumers have free access to information about the quality and distribution of food products. And it was from this law that this article completely removed the rule of responsibility. I'd like you and I, well, to take this into account when we consider the following rights, so that we know clearly that we don't violate the articles of the Constitution, because food market operators have the right to change food information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u187	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u188	That's why it's rejected. Because information about any special storage or use conditions is provided by the market operator if necessary. Special storage conditions or conditions of use are conditions that must be observed in order to ensure that the food does not lose its properties until the end of the set term. What specific features, storage conditions, or conditions of use should be included in the food product information is decided by the market operator responsible for the food product information. This could be temperature, humidity, storage. The separation in the bill of the temperature regime itself is unwarranted and unwarranted. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u189	Thank you. You insist, don't you? No, you don't insist on voting. 45 revisions. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u190	Thank you. My colleagues, I was going to say for, you know, talking from the minus, I was going to say for the plus. See, this law does not extend to foods intended for personal consumption. What does that mean? We're not going to run the end consumer today, so if you're actually eating the products you've grown, we're going to run the law. But at the same time, at the same time, I want to say that the law that, for example, was proposed yesterday, "For the identification and registration of animals," we're introducing identification, registration of animals, even if you're using this product for your own consumption. I don't see the logic. I'll tell you more about the responsibility, when we're going to look at the evidence now, and I don't see the logic where in this Food Quality Act you're reducing responsibility compared to the Identification, Registration, and there it's bigger for both the Physosibs and the Jurosibs. Where's the logic? But we'll talk about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u191	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u192	The edition adopted in the first reading meets the requirements of part two of Rule 26 of Rule 1169, indicating the country of origin or the place of origin of the food is mandatory in certain specific cases. And adding the words "including" will lead to legal uncertainty and problems interpreting the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u193	Thank you. Next amendment. Don't insist. Thank you. Now, yes. Our next amendment is the 46th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Yes. Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u194	Here I ask that this amendment be confirmed because throughout the body of the bill, the committee doesn't want to accept the concept of accredited laboratories. Although in fact, if we are adopting this bill in accordance with the European Union and the practice of the European Union, it is the accredited laboratories that should be accepted, not authorized. Because the accreditation procedure is defined in the European Union and is transparent. The authorisation procedure is a procedure that allows for abuse and, again, the dependence of manufacturers on the controlling authority. Please place an amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u195	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u196	Part four. a reference in the text of the bill on. 4th. The documents of relevant international organisations, European Union legislation or scientific justifications are unnecessary, and may therefore lead to legal uncertainty in the event that the value of consumption reference values varies between European Union legislation and relevant international organisations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u197	I just want to emphasize to the honourable Mrs. Oksani that if we put on confirmation, if we don't have enough votes, it's even a partial count. Don't we put it in? Yeah, I don't think you should do that either. Thank you. The next amendment is number 47, National MP. Please take the 47th People's Deputy Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u198	Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. You know, I think this is an important amendment. Why? Because it's about public control. Chapter V should be supplemented by the following article 31: "Article 31. Public control over the implementation of legislation on food information. Public monitoring of the implementation of legislation on food information is carried out by public organisations whose statutes provide for appropriate activities and by public inspectors. The order of implementation of such public control is approved by the central executive authority, which forms and ensures the implementation of public policy in the area of security and individual food quality indicators." It's important, after all. And I'd like to ask you for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u199	Thank you. This amendment is rejected and the national MP can only be put by the author of the amendment to confirm it. So we're moving on. 48th Amendment of People's Deputy Kulinic. Will you comment? No, it's not. National Deputy Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u200	Thank you, Madam Chairman. One more plus, colleagues. See, the draft law regulates the provision of information on food products that are sold even in a distance manner, including the use of remote means of communication. In view of the fact that the freezing and further defrosting of certain foods, especially meat, fish, restricts the possibility of further use and can affect their safety, taste, and physical properties. The bill lays down the requirement to provide the consumer with information on whether the product has been thawed. It is important that in this law we provide for the standards that are actually laid down in the EU Directive. And I want to emphasize, these are also the positive things that are in this law. Even though we're going to go to the liability rights, I'd like here to make clear why this is the responsibility, why it's not the other responsibility, and why there's a lot of responsibility in other laws, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u201	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u202	What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u203	This is about 48 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u204	That's 48 Kulinics, it's counted. Oh, 49th. Sold, accounted for, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u205	Asks the National MP to comment on why? Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u206	I won't. They're all accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u207	Okay. Thank you. Although the committee should be ready to comment on why the amendment was included. 50th. A national MP does not insist. 51st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u208	Buckumenko. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u209	Please, National Deputy Kulinich, what's the amendment? 52nd. Please, National Deputy Kulinic, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u210	Thank you. I insist on 52 to the right. What are we talking about? Today, current legislation does not contain detailed monitoring requirements, which is a key indicator for determining the safety and quality of food products, but in the European Union. Therefore, it is suggested that article 22 apply to market operators’ requirements and the provision of traceability in the new edition. To include the basic requirements of European Union legislation relating to product information, in particular name, volume, date of departure, as well as a number of other requirements that comply with European Union legislation. So I ask my colleagues to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u211	The committee would like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u212	In view of the fact that the issue of follow-up does not directly relate to the draft Food Information to Consumers Act and the lack of a harmonized position on its proposed amendment, we propose to reject the proposed amendment and to address the issue of follow-up in the comprehensive bill on amendments to Ukraine's laws in the area currently being developed, taking into account the European Union's regulations in the field of traceability, such as the European Union Regulation No. 931.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u213	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Please vote for the people's deputies. Amendment 52 of the Kulinić People's Deputy, please identify yourself. [[13:57:06]] For-43
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u214	The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've stopped at 52 degrees. I'm reminding all right-wing authors: we're 52 to the left. Tomorrow we'll be able to discuss all the remaining amendments and adopt the law. I have no doubt that there will be general support in the hall. It's three minutes before completion. I want to emphasize, there's another statement from two factions for a break that they're willing to replace with a speech. And I give the floor to Vladimir Litvina. Thank you very much for the report. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm asking you to stay in the office for further consideration of the bill. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u215	Dear National Deputies! Forced to draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the problem of public speaking. What is it? Lately, the problem has become more difficult for teachers to pay. As you know, the government budget subsidy, exclusively from the state budget, is aimed at paying teachers and doctors. However, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science adopted a new formula for wage calculations, especially after the unification of the territorial communities. Well, let's say that if rural communities joined the city, now the calculation is going to be urban, and this calculation is going to be at least 22 students in the class, if the number of the rural population is connected to the city, not more than 35 percent, and if more than 35 percent, it's going to be a concession -- it's going to be 21 students. Please tell me, which country school can have 21 students? And based on that. such an approach and a subsidy is calculated for the salary. We have a lot of problems, especially in the Zitomir region. In the Barranov region, in the Barranov City Council, teachers announced a strike, telling parents not to go to school. This problem began even earlier when teachers were not given vacations. We were able to arrange, allocate 4.5 million and close the problem. Teachers don't get paid for two months now. Dear colleagues, we are discussing the quality of food! That is why I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately comply with the obligation of the Cabinet of Ministers to direct the necessary funds to pay the salaries to teachers. I would ask for this to be a common position of the Supreme Council, since this applies to every area and district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-05-m0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. So, colleagues, I remind you, tomorrow we'll start our work with further consideration of Law 8450. I'd like to ask the right-wing authors to be on the job first thing in the morning. I wish everyone a fruitful committee work today, colleagues. I know that many important and stressful issues will be under consideration by today’s committees. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. I remind you, there'll be a security and defense block tomorrow. Tomorrow we will consider both the issue and the adjacent area. And so I'm asking everyone to be disciplined at 10 in the morning to arrive at the Supreme Council Hall to continue their work. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
