ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. So please register and please participate in the registration. [[10:04:45]] There are 347 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, as I reported, yesterday the National Security and Defence Committee decided to consider the second reading of the National Security and Defence Act. This gives us the opportunity today, I hope, at 12:30, to begin the consideration of the fundamental bill on national security and defence. Both the committee and I have held dozens of round tables in Parliament, including consultants from NATO countries. Because I want to report that this law is not just about reforming the Ukrainian security sector, it is also about bringing the Ukrainian security sector to NATO standards. Therefore, it was very important for the Ukrainian Parliament to be able to take all the proposals and amendments made by NATO into account before the second reading. This bill introduces new processes and approaches in the Ukrainian defence and security sphere that bring us closer to NATO standards. We have to adopt it this week to demonstrate at the July NATO summit in Brussels the progress of the Ukrainian reforms that bring us closer to NATO. NATO membership is the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, which we have adopted and which has defined the strategic course of our state, because NATO is first of all a truly protected Ukrainian state against Russian aggression. So today, after the ratification block, which I'm planning to consider in 12 hours, at 12:30, we're starting a review of the rights to the National Security and Defence Act. And I would also like to say that before I go to the speeches from the National MPs, I'm going to read out the statement that came to the presidency, it's a statement from two factions and the Rebirth Groups and the Opposition Block to announce the break, but they're willing to replace the break from the rostrum. And that's why I'm giving the floor to the representative of the Vilukulu Opposition Block faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u2	Dear people of Ukraine, yesterday there was a multi-million-dollar rally under the walls of the Council. But the authorities, who had been demeaning coal miners for four years, feared that Afghans would come out. Both Groissman and Nasalik and Reva and Suprun did not go out with people who did not explain why miners on government mines have not been paid their wages for several months. Why these people, as well as the Chernobylites and Afghans, are deprived of the benefits, are not raised to the normal level of retirement, and are destroying health care. To prevent the desperate people from spreading Parliament, Irina Heraszczenko was sent to them. The men who run the country sent an angry woman with no answers and no decisions. All the TV channels showed how she told the rallyers that there was no way to give everyone money. If Rev had said that, I don't think he would have left this meeting, or Nasalik would have told the miners. And people see how the authorities spray billions, they see a 1.2 billion dollar prize in Naftogazu leadership, and people demanded exactly what we've been demanding for four years. In doing so, we were required to do so without any politics. It is the payment of wages, the refund of benefits, the destruction of corruption, the reduction of tariffs, the increase of pensions, and normal medicine. And that could have been done yesterday. Bills have been introduced to Parliament, for example, on the rise of pensions for black people, and we submitted them back in May 2016. And there were deputies in the hall. But the authorities refused to vote. Why? Because if we were to provide a life worth living to miners, Afghans, black people, today the Council would have a 200-thousand rally of pensioners, which this authority has also led to poverty, and after tomorrow, doctors, military pensioners, single mothers and, in fact, the multimillion-dollar population of the country. It's a demographic, actually. Yesterday, in order of the Council of the day, there was a draft decision to rename Preyaslav-Hmielnicki to Preyaslav. During yesterday, he also reported that since the beginning of the year, the population of our country has dropped by 100,000. So as long as the coalition does renames and divides the budget, in six months, four cities have disappeared from the map of Ukraine, each of which is equal to the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki. We have only 54 newborns per 100 dead. There is no such decline anywhere in the world. And 8 million people have gone abroad. We demand that Law 8362 be passed today, allowing the miners to pay off their debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u3	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u4	Ten seconds. We demand that Law 8362 be passed today, allowing the miners to pay off their debts. And until he's accepted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u5	Thank you. But please avoid sexism during performances from the main rostrum of the country. And the next statement from the factions of Fatherland and Self-Help, I give the floor to Sergey Sobolev. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u6	Dear friends, the esteemed broadcasters, there was a meeting at the NCRECR yesterday for almost five hours on a critical situation with arrears in paying off the wages of Zaporozhye blannergo. Four and a half hours of work has been done in a situation in which a multi-million - dollar group — almost 5,000 of those left in the workplace — has only been freed in the last seven months, and not a penny will be paid for their work. They have to go to enterprises like Zaporoztal, Dniprostal, titanium-magnetic, other dangerous industries, eliminate accidents, deal with natural disasters, and people, think about it, seven months won't get paid. And finally, after the Wolf, the NCRECRCR came into existence. For almost five hours, the meeting was about one thing: why does a titanium-magnetic combination that is controlled by a group of Firtash not pay a billion dollars that they owe to Zaporozhyeblanergo. Why don't other exporting companies get dollars or euros from Zaporozhyeblanergo? But the paradox is the following. The state-owned Titano-Magnium plant, where the Fertash management, the State-owned Stock Exchange Company, which was run by Surkiss, other state-owned enterprises that didn't count on each other, and everybody's pretending that nothing happened. Where's the Minister of Energy? I asked yesterday about the critical situation in the oil and gas sector, exactly the most critical situation in the sky. Eleven olenergos are controlled by Russian oligarchs, including Kyivoblanergo. Those who are controlled by Ukrainian oligarchs do not pay taxes, do not pay wages, do not pay even the necessary fines they should pay. The proposal is one. The U.S.A. is now running two dozen cases in this situation, but these things will go into a dead end if it's not clear that the management of state-owned enterprises is run by oligarchs, and it's their property that they have to be responsible for not paying wages, not paying any other taxes, and that's the key. Today the meeting of the NCREKP will continue, I think we will still have a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u7	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u8	This is a single decision. The NCRECR, which is unlawfully appointed by the President, should be called off, and there should be people who think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u9	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the chapter of speeches by the national MPs. But before that, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka. Welcome to Mr. Taras' birthday. Good luck. [[Applause]] And now all those who intend to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies, please. Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! You know, last night, when we saw the President's decree as an audience of Mr. Žebrovsky's NAB, it caused some strange disappointments like after Maidan, after the Dignity Revolution, according to what is required that the NAB audience should have international experience, which we have seen as "loving friends" being appointed to such a responsible position. This morning we saw another assignment. This is one of our ambassadors in Armenia, Peter Litwin, who fled Ilovia. You know, sometimes it comes down to me because it seems to me that the President who came after the Dignity Revolution, when Russian aggression is going on in the country, is to assign people to positions of responsibility or it's an audience to the NAB when he tells all the internationals how he wants to overcome corruption when the Washington Post articles come out, where President Poroshenko talks about how he fights corruption, it's all a fairy tale, it's all a lie to people. And when the Committee on Foreign Affairs fought for candidates for ambassadors to come to the committee for prior consultations so that we could dissipate people who are not professional, who are embarrassing Ukraine, instead we see Peter Poroshenko assigning his own. Is the reserve lava that short? There are no people in the Ukrainian diplomatic service who can represent a worthy Ukraine? Before that, we had seen other personnel assignments. I now understand why Poroshenko promised the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service, which we approved on April 5, here, 276 deputies. He did not like the advice of the profile committee. And that's not the question of who works on the committee, that's the question of institutions. It's a question of what people were fighting for after Maidan. That regardless of who holds a position, institutions protect human rights. And this morning we started with action to see in the National Security Act the beginnings of the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service. In order to take over the Ukrainian Security Service's inequitable functions, and these functions are pressure on business, this is a struggle called the fight against corruption, this is what's called the fight against organized crime. And what do we actually see? We see that it's not there, because Peter Poroshenko doesn't want it, because the Security Service and a separate department that's pushing for business, which keeps investors from coming to Ukraine, they're making an effort to keep Ukraine unreformed. My Lithuanian colleagues and I spent more than a year driving around the capitals at our own expense, campaigning for Marshall’s investment plan for Ukraine. There will be no reform of the Security Service, no normal investment. We are going to NATO, there will be no plan of action for NATO membership, even if there is this law, but there will be no Ukrainian Security Service. We can talk long about the changes to the Constitution, that we are in the Constitution to consolidate our membership in the EU and NATO, but will it open the door for Ukraine after the Revolution on the Granite, the Orange Revolution and the Dignity Revolution? Could it be enough to seek a country? Maybe it's time to think about a nation that deserves a normal European future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u11	Nechayev gives the floor to the national deputy Husak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! For four years now, there has been a total disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine -- constant multi-month debt on government mines. True, the Ukrainian coal industry has had many problems, and these problems have accumulated decades since the Soviet Union. But from the beginning of 2000 until 2014, there was no debt on the government mines of Ukraine. And it came again during the administration of the first and then the second government of Yatzenyuk. Now this debt is once again more than 500 million dollars. The shafts on many of the state mines are desperate, we have strikes, we have a hunger for Selidewwogili. There are constant problems on Wolinwogilly, Lysicanswogilly and other government mines. The problem is that the State and the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry simply cannot provide proper governance on mines. Both Prime Minister Yacenuk, former Prime Minister and Prime Minister Groissman, and today's Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Nasalik have repeatedly promised that there will be no debt on government mines for wages. But it's going on. Why is this happening? The reason why often, in the preparation of the State budget, there is no funding in the budget, perhaps it is true. But instead, the Ministry of Energy and Coal doesn't offer any alternatives and no normal mining program, so of course there's no money. And I would like to point out that every year the Ukrainian Supreme Council first adopts the budget, and then twice or three times adopts special laws to increase the support of government mines in this budget. And it is the adoption of this Law 8362 that we demand now and immediately that people stop starving to pay their wages. But the problem needs to be solved, and we also require the government to ensure the proper management of government mines so that coal miners can take over the mines. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u13	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u14	30 seconds. We demand that the government eventually ensure that at least at least the proper administration of government mines is provided, so that miners, at least in time, receive relatively small wages for their very hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, let me put it this way: Mr. Bereza is invited. George Bereza, who is given the right to speak by Andrew Teteruk Please, Mr. Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! First of all, I want to address all those who fought hard in the east of Ukraine in the 14th year. I want you to think about how a heroic family, whose representative sits here alone in the hall and sanctifies the Harkow Agreements. [[Applause]] And then here. And then every time he speaks, he brands the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainians. For decades, the second representative heroically built a border between Ukraine and Russia. And the third major hero of today is the new ambassador of Ukraine, the state of Ukraine in Armenia, Peter Litwin. Peter Litwin, who left his soldiers in sector "D" in eastern Ukraine. Peter Litwin, who may have caused me to lose my life with my brothers. To this day he represents the state of Ukraine as ambassador to Ukraine. in Armenia. I want to speak to the President. Mr. President, look into the eyes of the dead. Mr. President, look into the eyes of mothers, mothers of those who have not returned from this war. Lithuania's mission is to confirm the very ones that there is corruption in this room, yes, there is corruption. Unfortunately, there's a lot to be paid by the aggressor state in order for people like Litwin to continue to influence or try to influence Ukraine's state policy. I want to speak to our Minister Klimkin again. Guys, you've crossed the line. I don't know how this is going to end, but I know that such an ambassador in another state is not allowed to be. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u17	Please make the next statement. National deputy Batenko is invited to speak. Mr. Taras, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u18	Have a good day, dear colleagues, dear friends! The Ukrainian community. Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriots Association Ukrop. As you know, colleagues, you are all aware that several bills have been registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for days at a time offering a new scheme for clearing foreign cars. The government is happy to report in the media that the question of "europly" in Ukraine will finally be removed. That's really a problem. This problem has actually given birth to a concept like Automidan, and it's interesting and disturbing, it's actually bothering millions of our fellow citizens. What's that? What's going on in the session room? What can happen? In fact, we see an attempt by the authorities to humiliate ordinary Ukrainians once again, because they're actually going to take away the opportunity to buy a car that's actually available. It seems that in the eyes of our government, all Ukrainians are extremely wealthy, because the bill will allow thousands of euros to be saved for the purchase of elite cars. For example, the customers of the S-Class Mercedes will be able to save about 7,000 euros in excise duty. In the meantime, these costs will be compensated by ordinary Ukrainians who cannot afford elite cars, since the cost of cleaning cars will be 100 percent, 200 percent. Let us consider a simple example. There's an old foreign car, 12-13 years old, with an engine capacity of 2.5 liters. According to the new bill, excise duty on it will be in the area of 2,700, 2,800 euros. With VAT, Ukrainians will have to pay about 3,400 euros at all. Now is the most important, most interesting moment. In Poland or Lithuania, the cost of a car with similar parameters will not exceed 3,000 euros. Look, it's actually the state that wants to get a bigger sum out of the future Ukrainian carowner's pocket than it's going to pay for the car itself. And yet another point that is to infuriate every sober Ukrainian. Bills will not prohibit the import of cars at reduced rates from Russia. That is, it will be allowed to buy almost new or elite cars from a country that has been at war with us for almost five years. This is another step toward a blood trade that the authorities are not even going to stop. There are, of course, and the positives in this bill, we can't deny it. In fact, the main plus for the bill is the limitation on the year of release and the eco-standard. That's good, and we're good for that. We'll be like a party registering alternative bills. I think we're going to see a positive thing here, like Automidan under the walls of the Supreme Council, to adopt bills that would allow every Ukrainian to buy an affordable, not an elite car. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u19	Please make the next statement. National MP Ruslan Demczak, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! On his committee, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking approved yesterday's second reading of the Law on Monetarys (No. 8152). The old decree on monetary regulation and monetary control has been replaced since 93, and the 37 articles of the USSR Foreign Economics Act have been repealed. This is the kind of legislation that controls monetary regulation in Ukraine today. The bill proposed by the President, introduced by the President to the Supreme Council, and he declares the principle that anything that is not forbidden is permitted. The currency bill is a no-car for a bracelet. We remember how much there was, there was a discussion on the basis of a package of bills on carnage, which he was also the founder of, to these bills, President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. But 550,000 people took advantage of this opportunity in a year. Let's give the Ukrainian bracelet an opportunity to join Ukraine's freely converted currencies. The currency bill, it implements European directives that allow all Europeans to open accounting accounts in Europe without hindrance, and now Ukraine also opens accounting accounts in Europe for both natural and legal persons. It cancels the deadline for the return of foreign exchange proceeds, which is now a pressure on external economic operations and on business in Ukraine. Also, the principle of introducing protection measures by the National Bank simplifies monetary control, which limits and regulates considerably. In addition, the bill requires that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development be involved in the plan of action, as well as that of the BEPS in 2018. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction requires that, tomorrow, the currency bill (8152) be included in the order of the day in a second reading and adopted as a whole. And remember, the Money Act is a step towards integrating Ukraine into the global capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma invites me to the floor. Mr. Igor Shurma, we invite you to join us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u22	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine. Today, there are mixed feelings on the way out to the rostrum. Of course, I'd like to start with a topic that I'm constantly worried about and worried about, which is the question of the Ministry of Health, because students today from different schools are turning to, you know, for what reason. The Health Ministry’s Test Centre site notes that the test is conducted in English. This is because English is taught at the professional level for medicine for only two years. And what's interesting is that in order to do this test, students have to pay 200 dollars equivalent to the equivalent of a bracelet. What is it?? So we're told that homosexuality is not a disease, we're taught how to wash our hands, so that there's no worms, thank God, the government will be without them, because they test all the methods, and now the students have to pay. But I'm not going to go on with this, we're going to do it. We'll talk about her later, I want to go to the government. Do you even give yourself credit for why people came out here yesterday, to the Supreme Council? Have you seen that many people? I'd like to ask one man not to start animosity in Ukraine. I'll tell you why. Because the external enemy is waiting for us all to fight. And as you're going to do it, you're the Kremlin agent, the one looking at me. And now I'm going to tell you essentially. And now I'm going to say essentially to you. And those people who didn't come out are coal miners. Do you know why they didn't come out? Because in government mines today, 800 million dollars are debt on wages. Well, you would, you know, instead of beating me up, they would go out and say, "We, MPs, here we are, the ones who are yelling, and I, including, our salary is 32,000 dollars per hand." Come to the people and tell them. And I come home and I bring, and I'm not like you. And those people -- 60,000, four members of the family -- are 240,000 people today who have nothing to eat. And they come to the hospital today and deal with a minister you can't appoint. And so far, no medicine, nothing. We demand that the bill of Law 8362 be immediately considered today, paying people their wages immediately. I'm going to tell you officially that there will be no, there will be no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no. Bring this decision in here. And instead of bringing everyone together and resisting from the outside, this is where the big fighters come out, and they start to divide, and those enemies, not the enemies. Let me tell you, it's going to be a very short period of time, and people will tell you who the enemies are, and you're going to sit here in silence and not know how to look people in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u23	The next speech, please, is by the people's representative of Cooper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u24	Honorable colleagues in Ukraine were finally employed by the courts. Glory to the Reformation of Dust! You may find it strange to hear such words from me. But I'll tell you that in conducting anti-corruption large-scale investigations, I've discovered the crime of the entire leadership of the state and I've addressed my appeals to all the law enforcement agencies -- the N.A.U.U., the U.S.A., the U.S.A., the N.P.D. Clearly, they did not even want to register these conducts, to open up matters. So I went to court, to our Ukrainian Pechersky, Solomonsky, Shevchenkov district court. I have more than 50 court rulings in my hands that recognize the illegality of law enforcement agencies that cover criminals. One of the first criminals is Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko. The open criminal conduct of our courts, which are called corrupt, after the Dusty, which took over the land in Kozin and here in the Royal Village, in the gas fields of Onishtenka's films, which have been reported, according to the investments now Burger King Putin Putino invested $100 million through offshore companies and a whole range of other facts. Here and Gontareva, here and here is Attorney General Yuri Lucenko, Macar Pasenuk, Cononenko, here full, I'll say, kodlo, and this generation must be beaten and shot, as our late Kuzma said. And in this situation, there is a question. Will we be saved by a new anticorruption court, and will these cases be brought to an end? So let me tell you, in order to prove them, you need not just to bring them to trial, but you need to question the witnesses, despite the fact that you need to register first, find out the facts, the evidence, and collect documents. So our law enforcement agencies don't do that. Artem Sitnik is the first person to cover criminals. Of the 50 lashes, the majority is its inaction. Yuri Lucenko, I've been on his committee recently, he's come to film the in touch with Ponomarov, our deputy, so you know, I've asked him: where is Boyko, and where is Wilkull, that you're telling us about the petty crime that you're about to take away the inviolability. We understand why. All of this is done to put Parliament under control. For Parasuk or Semenchenko, or someone else, to be next. I'll tell you, Peter Alexiovich, it won't work. And I think it's respectable or disrespectful, right, corrupters, dry the dryings. Soon we'll come to power, and you won't be anywhere to run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u25	Please, Sergey Shahov is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u26	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our Land. Dear colleagues, there are 300,000 people living in the Lugansk region, and the budget for the development of the Luhansk region is half a billion dollars. Naftogaz has accounted for one and a half billion dollars, so three times more than three years. He still wants to raise 60 percent of his salary on gas. In 2016 they made 26 billion dollars, in 2017 they made 40 billion dollars. Probably in 2018 Naftogaz wants to make 80 billion dollars at the expense of an average citizen of Ukraine, washing out of their pockets the gas that the boys in the trenches make. The hour is now held by pensioners for social bread. Today, epidemics are spreading throughout the country, with tuberculosis, measles, AIDS, drug addiction, a wave of shelter, and no jobs. Tell me, who is responsible for the political responsibility of Naftogaz? I'll say he crossed Kobolev, head of Naftogazu, from the government of Yatzenuk to the government of Groysman. Political responsibility must lie on the shoulders of two political forces: the People's Front and the WFP. Dear colleagues, I ask you to call here to this rostrum tomorrow, let him report to the entire Ukrainian people, where he is a virgin and a half billion dollars. After that, no minister can escape from a sinking ship. Let them answer in 2.5 years, then restart the government, and let them work for Ukraine. That is the case with the Ukrainian government today. All the reforms of failure. Look, all the doctors, wherever I greeted them with Doctor's Day, said, Sergio Volodymyrovich, pay attention to the Minister of Health. This is not a health minister, it is a murderer who has now brought about a complete medical reform. Ten billion dollars for primary health care has not been allocated to people today. This is 370 dollars per person in 1938. Please tell me 10 billion dollars has not been put into the human budget. That's what the scales you could put 1 million 300,000 people and the Naftogaz 41 people who got 1.5 billion dollars of the bonus were going to add up to? "Our Land" requires the immediate report "Naftogazu" from this rostrum, "Our Land" requires the immediate release of Suprun from his post and the Minister of Health, but only after they report from this bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u27	Please give the next speech to the national MP Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u28	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like once again on behalf of People Control to welcome Taras Batenka, the leader of Ukros with birthday and the opportunity to speak that he has given me his word. And now, essentially, the question. You can see that there are medications and diagnostic systems that have been purchased by the Ministry of Health for the past three years under the minister of Kvetashvili and under the responsibility of Minister Suprun. And these are the documents that show who's actually trading in blood with the aggressor country. So I'm officially calling on the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General's Office, to immediately investigate and prosecute criminal cases against the Ministry of Health, personally the Suprun, and against those roofers from the government, all the vice-premiers who say there's no blood trafficking here. So this is a limited-liability society called the Diagnostic Systems of Ukraine, the ultimate owner and sole owner, and the final beneficiary is the Diagnostic Systems of Russia, and some of Burkov's comrade, Konstantin Anatolevich, the head and founder, the native and resident of Lower Novgorod, Russia. So here's the Ministry of Health through an affair supported by many of the national MPs of the majority called "international purchases." Through Crown Agents, he's buying these diagnostic systems in the Russian Federation. They stressed that on the Russian package, which is visible here, they only make stickers in Ukrainian. Look, the Russian Federation, purchased Suprun in Ukraine, for the last two years. Russian Federation, purchased by Suprun and the government on blood. And these bullets, Mrs. Suprun, aren't respected by me, then they kill our Ukrainian soldiers on the front. And on each vial, they couldn't even uncheck the label and change it. What's it called, not a diversion against Ukraine? And here's a contract with Crown Agents where they bought diagnostic systems in the Russian Federation. It may be necessary to be consistent and not to talk about the fight against the enemy, but to fight the enemy alone. Not to deceive the Ukrainian people or to trade in blood by killing our Ukrainian soldiers. So I look forward to the rapid response of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we have the final speech under the heading of the National MPs. I'd like to invite my colleague, Bondar Michael, to the floor. And we have a statement then for a break from the two factions that our colleagues in the Radical Party are ready to replace. Please, Mr. Bondar, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Kamineckina, Radehivščina and Bujanščina. I want to go to my colleagues, I have a district, I have a 16-year-old helicopter brigade. And the commander of this brigade called for the task force to bring two bills to the session room as soon as possible. This is Bill 2942, the main committee is Cosmiakina, and the second is 3356 Mr. Vlasenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you as soon as possible to pass these two bills. Because I remind you, the 16th Helicopter Brigade, it's 2014, 8 dead guys, the Slavs, took an active part. And accordingly, they are actively involved in the drafting of draft laws, and they are following up on how they are accepted and very much requested. The second question is, it's like the head of a coal industry subcommittee. Today, many have already spoken under Law 8362. I'm asking all my colleagues from the budget committee to consider this bill today on the committee and bring it to the session room as soon as possible. But I want to say two words to those colleagues who here again did not respect me and told me how the miners were rallying at the Supreme Council yesterday. Yesterday the miners came to support this bill with a peaceful action and all. And today, when I talk to the heads of the unions, I hear that there have been a lot of paid-up pro-Russian provocateurs who just provoked the fights yesterday. So I say again, the miners came for the peace campaign yesterday, and you, the controlling pro-Russian provocateurs, let me say, let the law enforcement authorities deal with them and investigate how everything happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u31	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Now we've got a statement from two factions -- the Radical Party and the People's Front -- and they're ready to replace it. And Victor Halasyuk is invited to the presentation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u32	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to raise wages and pensions, in order to overcome unemployment in countries that do not depend on IMF loans, it is necessary to load Ukrainian production to the full, you have to order them, and they will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, and they will pay billions of taxes to the state budget. Is it possible to do so by buying Polish cars or French helicopters or Belarusian tractors or German electric cars? No, no, not again. The policy of today's government is absolutely flawed, it leads to poverty, it leads to dependence on foreign loans, it leads to a loss of faith in the future and prospects. Because of this, millions of Ukrainians travel abroad to feed their families, so Ukrainians become forced immigrants instead of living on their own land and building the success of their family on their own land. The Radical Party team, led by Oleg Lášk, proposes in principle another economic policy: to order Ukrainian factories and Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Lvivsky "Electron", Zaporizka "Motor Sich", Kyivsky "Antonov", Kharkiv "Turboat", Mariupol's Metcombinate Illich, Kremenchuck. Krukov's car construction plant, Dniprovsky Interpipe or Kropivinski Elworthi, these factories are capable and hundreds of these factories across Ukraine are able to make orders at a better world level, they release quality reliable products at an honest price, but they don't have orders. I've just come back from Lviv, where I've visited Electron, which is the pearl of the Ukrainian industry, and they can release more than a hundred trolleybuses, trams, electric buses a year. How much are they getting out? Ten times less. Why? Because Kiev buys Polish cars for nearly 2 billion dollars. Because Lviv is going to buy 50 former European wagons today and that's a disgrace, it's unacceptable. Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians as fast as possible, set minimum requirements for localization of production as in the US and as in Europe, economic advantage to the Ukrainian manufacturer, guaranteed orders, tax preferences, cheap loans. So let's get the country off our knees.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u33	So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues national MPs! I'm asking you to come into the hall. The first issue of the agenda is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation (0184). And I'm going to be the first to put a motion on the vote for a reduced procedure. So, colleagues, please vote and please support the review of the abbreviated procedure 0184. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:50:55]] For-99 99, too big a gap, so we're going into full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Greb Roman Volodymyrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! You are given a bill on the ratification of the Financial Agreement (Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation. Thanks to you, last November, the agreement between the European Investment Bank in Ukraine and Ukraine on the allocation of 160 million euros for the energy modernisation of Ukrainian State universities was ratified. Under the terms of the agreement, 120 million euros is allocated by the European Investment Bank, 10 million euros are allocated as a grant from the E5P Eastern European Fund, and 30 million euros should be allocated to Ukraine from the state budget either at the expense of Ukrainian universities or at the expense of other sources. In order to find other sources, the Ministry of Education and Science has negotiated with the NEFCO North Environmental Finance Corporation, which has agreed to grant a 30 million-euro loan to co-finance the agreement. These funds are essential to Ukrainian universities. The financing itself will take place in two stages. According to the first stage, seven Ukrainian universities and some 147 universities were selected. According to the second stage, Ukrainian State Universities will also be served. So far, some 40 universities have submitted their applications. The loan itself will be granted for a period of 15 years, of which 5 years is the extended period. The credit rate is 3.41 percent margin and floating or fixed rate on the sample date. I know that there are many friends of Ukrainian education in this room. These funds are essential for the development of Ukrainian universities and the implementation of energy-generating measures. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Now the question to the reporter. Please record the question to the reporter. Opanasenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u36	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u37	Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions. But I can see that there's a possibility that they could all be asked. First question. You said seven universities that would actually take part in funding at this cost. Tell me, who determines the criteria for these universities? Who is this commission or, I don't know, there's a person who's going to define these universities? And where will this be determined?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u39	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Olena. The 7 universities you talked about were taken out in 2012 were taken directly by the European Investment Bank. As far as the following universities are concerned, they will be determined by the criteria that are once again proposed by the European Investment Bank, which will be selected by the management group of the project involving the consultants and the NEFCO, which will carry out direct selection. Thank you. All the criteria were posted before the competition was launched, and they were published on the Ministry of Education and Science website.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u41	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear reporter, this is not the first time I have raised the issue of monopolies in the preparation of postgraduate health professionals. You have broken this monopoly in the field of education, but this authority is responsible for the fact that, unfortunately, this monopoly exists in the field of health care. What are we talking about? Leading scientific medical centers such as Shalimova, Amos, PAG, and so forth and many others are unable to do so. They have this opportunity for professionals, based on training, in general, but they do not have the right to prepare postgraduate education for those who have completed medical schools. Please tell me is this in line with the international standards and agreements we have signed in the field of education? And please settle this matter immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u42	Thank you for asking, Mr. Sergei. Yes, this is the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science. Such activities are carried out on the basis of appropriate licences. With regard to your specific question, we will further address it, answer it in the legal term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u43	And the final question was by Yegor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u44	I'd like to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u45	Could you pass on the word to Roman's Annie, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u46	I can. Please, Roman's Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u47	The Honourable Deputy Minister, I'm actually familiar with this project, and there were negotiations with the rectors of all these heights. Clearly, the criteria were appropriate in Europe and there was a proper European audit. But we do have that question. Why since the 12th year, when all of these projects were ready, I just know this long process, how the Ministry hasn't made an appropriate decision in the Supreme Council Hall and how much they've lost, they haven't gotten their benefits from higher education because these projects haven't been started in time and they've been upgraded accordingly. And the second part of the question. We say there are only seven universities in Ukraine right now, and if you take higher education institutions in general, there's a huge problem with modernization, with thermal efficiency. And we know how most of the country's educational institutions were forced this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u48	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u49	They were forced to send students in winter for what we call remote learning, because just in our higher education, there's not enough money to pay off these heat debts. And what does the Ministry actually think of doing about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. Yes, indeed, a loan from the European Investment Bank and a loan from NEFCO is one of the small components, but essential for the implementation of energy-generating measures. What else are we doing? We, together with the Agency, have now held an appropriate seminar to explain to our Ukrainian universities the possibility of entering into energy service contracts, a law that was passed in the Supreme Council last year. And according to this law, our universities are already considering, and seven universities are considering making energy service contracts. What is being done under this energy service contract? An investor (private person) takes energy - efficient measures at his own expense, and then the university returns the money invested through the payment of utilities. So the university, without investing, gets modern energy-efficient technologies. This is the great deal of work that we're going through, except for making credit agreements with the European Investment Bank and the NEFCO North Environmental Corporation. With regard to the first part of the question of why nothing has been done since 2012. It's kind of hard to say, you can't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u51	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u52	After changing the composition of the Ministry of Education and Science, we were involved in this process. There's already been a bill, there's a whole series of legislation that regulates the direct order of the sample of the specified loan funds. So it's a complicated process that we've already been through. Over the past two years, they have done more than the previous four. And I hope that in the fall we will start funding and sampling under these financial agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u53	Thank you. You can take your place, Roman Volodymyrovich. And to my co-report, I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to Hopko Anna Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today we're going to talk to you about ratifying a very important agreement, the Financial Agreement, between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on the basis and as a whole. Why is it so important? Each of us has once been a student and remembers the importance of seeing, indeed, examples of energy efficiency in universities. Even this winter we heard a lot when students were forced to interrupt because there was no way to burn down all the rooms that were there. So today, when we talk about this project, ratification, it will help to raise funds for measures to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, state universities related to the education process, and it aims to bring higher education in Ukraine to the world's energy efficiency standards. Such a project in higher education for Ukraine was first proposed jointly with the European Investment Bank and supported by the North Environmental Finance Corporation. The first phase of the Ukrainian Higher Education Project provides for the inclusion of 147 buildings in seven higher education institutions in Ukraine. And this is the National Technical University, the Kharkiv Political Institute, this is the National Pedagogical University of Dragomanova (Kiev), the National University of Lviv Polytechnics (Lviv), the National Technical University of Poltav, Yuri Kondratuka (Poltava), the Chernigiv National University of Technology, the Sumian State University and the Vinnick National University of Technology. The project will have significant positive socio-economic effects, as the project will affect more than 110,000 students and more than 13,000 university staff each year. Other positive results can be expected, such as improving human health and improving the comfort of their learning and work. Please support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs and ratify the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation. According to Mrs. Greenevich's explanatory note, the amount of the loan under the financial agreement is 30 million euros for 15 years with a five-year maturity. The interest rate can be a floating or fixed rate on the sample date, plus the margin of 3.41 percent. Loan repayment terms: once every six months equal portions to the principal amount of the debt or fixed payments consisting of the principal amount of the debt and interest. The minimum amount of the tranche is 1 million euros. On the Ukrainian side, co-financing of projects totaling 30 million euros on the basis of public budget, universities or other sources, in this case this is the Northern Environmental Finance Corporation. So, colleagues, we also encourage those selected universities that are exactly where the investments in energy efficiency are going to be, to take these state schools seriously. And given the efforts that Ukraine is making out of energy efficiency, it is extremely important that we first consume less gas, so that through energy-efficient technologies, especially because universities will sign energy service contracts and become, indeed, more comfortable places to learn. So, colleagues, I urge everyone to return to the session room now so that we can vote today on this important ratification and make our contribution to energy-efficient universities. And it's long overdue, and I think we need to talk not only about universities, but also about medical institutions in order to, in fact, save natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. The same is Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u56	Dear Hannah Mikolayevna, as head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, perhaps you can tell us and the society that we have not only the current ratification, but in general the use of funds, the loans of international financial institutions, how not only the Ministry of Education, but other ministries, the central executive authorities are taking advantage of the funds of international financial institutions, with what effectiveness and perhaps some advice to government officials, how can this efficiency be increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. A very important question. If we analyze the Court of Auditors' report on the effectiveness of targeted use of international aid funds and look at the percentage of the sample, it's actually a very sad situation that requires substantial inventory and, in particular, from the Government of Ukraine, we've been trying to figure out how to use the funds more effectively. When we see the Prime Minister meeting with small farms and talking about support, I have, as the head of the committee, a question, and why is 400 million euros from the European Investment Bank, which we ratified with you in 2016, and farmers of small and medium size still have 400 million euros and, although interest is dripping, and debt is increasing for us, why are they still not using them? So the call to Cuba, and to everyone as chairman of the committee, we've already written dozens of letters, to look at, first, why funds are being used so slowly, what strategic goals, what we need them for before asking for new funds. And from our foreign partners, more effectively use the funds that are already there, then ask for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Anna Mikolayevna, thank you for this decision, and we will support the ratification. I couldn't ask in an I.O. Minister of Education, I would like you to control this situation yourself. Do you know that children have been poisoned in schools and have not yet been able to answer the Ukrainian people, what action have they taken to ensure that September 1st, how will our children be protected from it? And how the international community can influence Ukrainian schools, and we need security in our schools. Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u60	Thank you. I think the Ministry of Education should be taking all the measures to how these funds will continue to be used. There's the calculus, and we've recently chosen the head and the members of the calculus. I think, within the framework of those mechanisms of parliamentary control that exist, we need to make efforts to make the funds of international aid that go, technical assistance, humanitarian aid, more effective, and, indeed, to be applied purposefully. And so that we don't see any abuse or theft or a low sample. And then we hear very often from our partners, why the money we gave, why the bureaucratic barriers exist, why the ministries compete with each other at the expense of why there are no transparent procedures? So we demand the same from the government that the site that used to work openaid.gov.ua on the openness of international aid, where every citizen can access a public government resource and see what kind of donor the funds have given, what kind of area the project is, and how to control it. And I urge everyone to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. It's time to ask, please go to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I now ask the factions to sign up for a discussion of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement. Please, from factions. Jaroslav Markevich, speaking to Mrs. Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Helena, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u62	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We're actually talking about financing an energy efficiency project at seven universities in Ukraine. Today, for 2017, at least we have 657. That's not even 5 percent. That means, in principle, we're talking to you about the moment when it doesn't affect the systemic situation throughout Ukraine. And this is going to make the Ministry of Education, and the Supreme Council think about the absence of a system policy on not only energy efficiency, but generally higher education, the state of infrastructure. Today, within the youth wing of Self-Help, we are implementing a project on dormitories. We study the condition of hostels and the conditions under which students live. Now you're talking about how they're supposed to learn, what conditions, and you're going to see what conditions they live in. And this project, by the way, doesn't even take this moment into account: holes in roofs, holes in windows, totally unacceptable living conditions, I don't say, for learning anymore. So, colleagues, of course, we're going to support this agreement, of course, that we had to do it back in 2012. But it's not a systemic solution to the problem in either higher education or for students or for young people, because in the state and unfortunately, the Ministry of Education doesn't have this systematic vision, and it hasn't been formed to date in 27 years. A low quality of education, an unknown number of higher education institutions with completely different teaching standards. I have a dream that there will ever be universities in Ukraine at Oxford, Harvard, that will be part of the world's top ratings. And today we have to cover the holes like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u63	Thank you. And please welcome Igor Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u64	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will, of course, support the proper ratification as well as all ratifications aimed at the benefit of the Ukrainian State. But I'd like to talk a little bit about something that, besides energy saving, there's got to be a logic, for example, in energy efficiency. Our leader, Oleg Lazko, is now meeting with miners under the Cabinet of Ministers. Why are the miners standing there? The miners are there because the Ukrainian government is buying coal in the United States, in the Russian Federation, wherever but not in its mines, but in Ukraine. Fearful debts to miners have led them to social riots, and it is the responsibility of the government that runs anti - Ukrainian policies in terms of coal and energy. In particular, what's happening to us is the environmental safety and safety of human beings in connection with imports from abroad. What's going on? It's not just bees poisoning, poisoning cattle, poisoning people. After all, we're all breathing it, we're all eating it, all Ukrainians are eating it, it's essentially genocide over Ukrainians. Forty percent of the country’s agriculture is smuggled, and the rest is not certified. Where does the government look? It's very good to come with a nice ratification and perform with a manifesto. What about telling specific people? And here, colleagues raised a very important question about government drug purchases. You. and hospital facilities. Hospitals. In Russia, hepatitis tests are being purchased, while in Kiev and Kharkiv they are similar. I have a question for "supposed," for those who support Ulysses Suprun and those who call themselves patriots. Ladies and gentlemen, how come the Ukrainians don't buy but buy from the enemy, from the aggressor countries? You and Suprun are personally responsible for this. And it is possible to lower the price of medicines only if they are purchased from a Ukrainian manufacturer, not by expired medicines or before they are used abroad. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u65	Next performance from Peter Dustock's Block. Spiowakovsky's national deputy presents the faction's position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Now we're looking at a very difficult question. This is a question of responsibility. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is now making a decision, guaranteeing that 150 million euros. 160 million euros, that's about 5 billion dollars, will go to thermosanization, thermomodernization of 7 universities in Ukraine. Is it the right decision? I think it's the right thing to do. Because we have to invest in higher education in Ukraine so that children don't leave and universities don't close in the winter. But on the other hand, do you and I have in Parliament, in the Cabinet of Ministers, effective tools to control what's going on there? We pay the price, we have no control. These are very important things that have to do with autonomy, including independence. These are the budgetary institutions. But, on the other hand, a week ago, I was at a meeting of the Rectors' Association of Ukraine. They say we're autonomous; please don't interfere. I'm going back to Bill 8385, where we have to create a powerful system in which the corporate university management system should provide us in a year or two when we detect some mistakes, and here we have to see what is going on, how money is spent. Including the money we're spending with you. We guarantee to taxpayers that they will be used honestly and transparently. Dear colleagues! These things are related. Autonomousity is primarily a responsibility. So I think we should vote yes now, and that's absolutely true. But we have to understand that if we don't change the governance system at universities, if we don't create a corporate governance system where decisions are made that are understood by society, for business, we will never be effective. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to vote in favour. But consider that Bill 8385 will be considered, these are related things. Governance is effective, investment should have a clear foundation. That's why I'm asking you to invest in Ukraine's higher education. This is necessary to ensure its future. But creating open, honest conditions for governance and making decisions is our responsibility with you. Thus, 8385 and today’s things are very related to one another. Thank you all for voting in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u67	Please, Igor Šurma will speak from the place, you have the word. And the opposition block position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u68	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, today there is no doubt in this room that the initiative, let there be arguments, let there be an explanation of the situation, but let there be support for it. Because everyone understands that the whole budget area of Ukraine is underfunded today, including education, and medicine, and, above all, culture, because cultural values are established there. But let's see what happens to the corresponding costs that we get. We understand very well that they, this money, do not go to higher education institutions in Ukraine. Only seven institutions will benefit from this. 160 million euros and 7 institutions! Is it a big price? Great. Will we create conditions there? Let's create minds there. Now for the next question. Can you please tell me, in those circumstances, that all children have the opportunity to learn fully? I suppose we should. But why won't they have equal opportunities? I'll tell you why. I'm going to go straight to another question. The whole point is that children have their parents. And among those parents may be those who work in mines today. Well, I have to tell you, there are definitely kids today who have parents who are miners. Why? On the 33 state mines, I emphasize, state mines, where 60,000 people are working, and this is definitely today a huge army of Ukrainian citizens, not paying a chronic wage, 800 million debts. Please tell me, children are studying in higher schools somewhere in the capital, at another district center, do parents have the opportunity to provide material help as parents so that they can feel fully at school? And they don't get paid. There's been a big debate about what some mines have in debt, and others don't. So I'm stressing that debt is on government mines and this is the full responsibility of the state. And if people went on strike yesterday, I have to tell my opponents that you were here on the air from the rostrum, saying that there were a lot of people paid for by the Kremlin. What do you mean, our coal miners working in the controlled Ukraine are the Kremlin-paid people? Go out there and tell them and tell them honestly: I, the deputy of the Supreme Council, get paid 32,000 dollars, and you wait, you wait until that government that we voted for and gave him credit for, he'll give you that money back. I fully agree with what Mr. Sziowakovsky said: Without changing the management system, we will not get anything. Because it looks very strange when we give autonomy to universities and don't trust them, what is it in Ukraine? And the next. The quality of education. We all studied in those colleges. What do we consider to be uneducated? Until we promote our education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Colleagues, not all of them have been able to sign up. Two more groups and factions are asking for a performance. Please, this is Ivan Krulko from Fatherland. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, three minutes. I say there are two groups, but three minutes, of course. And then there's Mr. Shahov, Sergey Shahov. Please, Mr. Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u70	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it is certainly necessary to ratify this agreement. But let's figure out what this deal is about. This is an agreement to bring to a minimum the quality of our higher education institutions. Because Ukraine's European integration starts not with slogans about European integration, but with quality of life and quality, including education. Therefore, this financial agreement will allow at least 20 Ukrainian higher education institutions to comply with European standards as to how hostels are arranged, where Ukrainian students live, how they are equipped with educational institutions. Here's what this financial agreement is about. And, of course, if there are such possibilities, and if there are such international grants, we should use it to the full. And it certainly needs to have control over the cost. And this control will be provided not only by the Ukrainian supervisory authorities, but also by experts who will be delegated to our partners who are parties to this financial agreement. Well, one more moment. It is clear that in order for Ukrainian youth and today 54 percent of Ukrainian youth to want to go abroad and never return to Ukraine again, so that Ukrainian youth are motivated to live, work and give birth to children here in Ukraine, we need to ensure quality of learning, but we also need to make opportunities for Ukrainian youth to see the world. Zone. The visa-free regime with the European Union does not solve this problem at the same time. And what he can do is those international opportunities that we need to use for the mobility of Ukrainian youth. And I was pleased when the Ukrainian delegation, which had just returned from Canada, had the opportunity to meet with an immigration minister who was responsible for the issue of the Youth Mobility Agreement so that Ukrainian young people could acquire the best practices, including in Canada, but then return to Ukraine and continue to apply all these knowledge here in Ukraine and improve the quality of our state. That's exactly the direction we need to move. And so I was pleased to see that there is a clear understanding in Canada that such a deal should be made with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u71	Just give me one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u72	For such a covenant to be made, and for Ukrainian young people, Ukrainian students to travel freely around the world, to gain the best knowledge in prestigious colleges, but to return to our country, and then here in Ukraine, they applied this knowledge. We will definitely support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u73	Thank you for the faction's position. We've got another speech from the MPs. Please, Sergey Shahov. And, colleagues, on this, all the groups and factions are speaking, you'll let me know. Thank you. Please, Mr. Sergey, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u74	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, surely "Our Land" will support this ratification. And we are grateful that our foreign partners are enabling us to develop education and energy conservation in our country. But we too should care for our children. Today, the Ministry of Education has not yet printed 350,000 books, and parents will be forced to buy these books for their children out of these beggarly wages that they receive at businesses and do not receive at all as miners from the east and from the Lviv pool, came to the walls of Parliament yesterday. Dear colleagues, today we must turn to dormitories that are practically broken down to the ground. Children today are living in terrible conditions. We need to build new energy conservation technologies to be right here in our country, give jobs, and today we don't want to run and spend money there, as the Ministry of Education does, thinking about who would be willing to put out a quote for printing books that aren't printed today. We need to pay attention to this right away. Inside there, in a government that today did not allow for the normal printing of Ukrainian books for our children. And for today, we need to immediately develop our building of our schools, our kindergartens, normally by energy efficiency. We can do this. "Our Land" will support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all factions and groups took the floor. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies, and we're going to have nine minutes to make a statement on this bill for ratification. Please, Mr. Germanko gives the floor. Basil Germano Igor Shurmi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We're now discussing ratification issues, and it's probably a priority for us today, because there's Wednesday today, and there's still a lot of doubts about whether we're voting for it, whether there are people in the room. Undoubtedly, I stress the position of the Opposition Block, the issue of education needs support, and we cannot share political, ideological beliefs and preferences, we must support everything that is going on in education. And if it weren't for today's urgent issue of debt to miners, the Opposition Block would definitely have voted in favour of the bill, and I guarantee you that those votes would have been enough to get 226. We declare officially, we will not vote today in support of the decision itself. We need to immediately consider Bill 8362 on changes to the budget and the allocation of 800 million dollars to repay debt to miners, 33 government mines. I point out that, despite the government’s promises of meeting our obligations, despite the fact that we are paying a fair price for coal we are buying abroad, we cannot be able to pay the wages of the 60,000 people who work in mines every day. We are talking about the need to consolidate the hall today, and this room can be consolidated by introducing an appropriate bill on repayment of debts to miners, and I am convinced that all will unite. Today we need to understand that the consideration of this issue in full procedure, it has two positive points: we know about the problems that there are today in education, this is one time, but we understand very well that we cannot determine the priority of importance. You can imagine the condition of today’s people, miners and their family members, that they were going to Kiev today to demand what they were promised and guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. And speaking of education, I have to tell you one thing, we're very proud of the people from Ukraine who graduated from higher education. We don't have a problem with what institutions they were, who they were, the level of professional readiness of teachers of the intellectual level, and we have it. The problem is different. Finance education, gentlemen of the government, finance the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, and then we'll have the right result. And the loans, they're taken and given away, we need them, take them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u77	Please, Sergey Lechchenko from the rostrum will be speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u78	Dear Ukraine, in general, this is a question that we are considering, which should be automatically voted on by Parliament, because there is no problem in supporting this international agreement, which will help to increase the energy efficiency of state universities and make Ukrainian education more qualitative. But I want to take this opportunity, to speak from the rostrum, to talk about another question that will be heard in the session room today, this will be the topic on which our reporter on this issue, Mrs. Hopko, will address the National Security Act. And just today, there's a protest under Parliament where we demand that the Ukrainian Security Service be deprived of its functions and only deal with those issues that are a priority for services in the civilized countries of the world, this fight against spies, these are diversans, this is protecting Ukrainian citizens from terrorists, but it's not a racket of Ukrainian business. Last week as a deputy, I visited Poltava and met a small entrepreneur, and he has a company that works, eight people, called Art agro. So this firm was set up by the K-B-B-Mask Show, Reid. They removed the product, removed the seals, removed the computers, blocked the small business, which needs to be bowed down to the legs that create jobs during this difficult time. The year it was blacked out, put in the National Police, and she dies quietly there. And it's done for the only reason, because BSC often does a lot in Ukrainian reality, not what it's supposed to do, but does business rackets. And then finally, this little company, which has, I repeat, only eight people, hasn't even been returned to the sum of over 100,000 dollars of the product that they've been selling. In order for this not to happen, it is within the framework of the National Security Act that an amendment that will deprive the BAF of its uninhabited functions, and which it will report, I hope, as the author of the Anna Hopko amendment from the rostrum. And all the progressive deputies have to support her in this. Because we similarly introduced Law 8057, which in general deprives the U.S.S.A. of these functions so that security services are not a threat to the Ukrainian business. And I've got 40 seconds left, and I want you, distinguished Ukrainian audiences and listeners, to inform us that yesterday there was a serious threat to the Anti-Corruption Bureau when President Poshenko appointed an audience of Pavel Zebrick's NAB. There are many questions to Mr. Zebrick, but the main question is why he became an auditor. Because the direct rule of the Anticorruption Bureau Act (art. 26) requires considerable international experience in the NABU auditor. With all due respect to Mr. Zebrick, his biography has been published, is widely known, but he has no experience in working in the courts abroad or in international organizations. And his appointment as an auditor may be aimed at destroying the NAB as an independent anticorruption body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address all speakers to comply with the rules. And during the discussion of the bill, we will discuss the specific text of the bill. This applies not only to the previous speaker, but to many today who did not speak on the subjects that we are discussing during their presentations. It's just that I'm worried that when we're discussing everything that we think is necessary, we're balancing the session room, and everyone forgets what we're talking about right now. Please, Mrs. Konstanovic. Please. We are discussing, as a reminder, the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that all of the bills relating to higher education require careful and careful consideration in the session room. In terms of specific ratifications, of course, our party "The Ukrainian Union of Patriots – UKROP" supports this ratification, as a whole, and most of the progressive changes in education in Ukraine. And especially when it comes to higher education, it's a set of issues that need to be addressed urgently right now and not just in terms of thermo-modernization, not just in terms of educational potential, not just in terms of financing. This is a systemic, complex and needs, first of all, what we think is to review the funds allocated to higher education funding, and I want to emphasize, state higher education. Because universities suffer from underfunding in part of salaries, vacation payments, we're going to have a capital cost problem again in the fall, with universities being held. Therefore, it is very important to look now, as we form the 2019 budget, at the attention of the deputy corps to the financing of higher education. Another aspect. This is a revision of the systemic issues related to the restoration of human capital. Ukrainian education and Ukrainian society, unfortunately, are losing ground, the Davo Economic Forum has demonstrated that we have dropped 14 points, which is not only an internal Ukrainian problem, but an external security issue. We're losing intellectual potential and not just because our young people are going abroad, not just because they're not staying in Ukraine, because there are no conditions for both education and the social environment, it's a problem for our future. So I ask everyone to focus their attention on higher education, higher education, on traditions that have been shaped for decades, and to support Ukrainian universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for discussing the draft law as appropriate during your speech, according to the regulations. Colleagues, in principle, have reached the end of our time to speak with the Ukrainian national deputies. We'll give another word to one speaker, we'll ask about the ratification of the Financial Agreement Act (Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back to the session room, and there'll be a vote in three minutes. Please now give the floor to Mrs. Koshevi, who will pass it on to his colleague, Mr. Lašek. And they're going to talk about the draft law on ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As soon as I was with my colleagues, I was at the Cabinet of Ministers. The Sailors of the Selidewwogil State Association gave me this helmet. With this helmet, they're next to Kabmin, like, "Wage, salary!" The people who work are forced to go to the government to knock helmets on the asphalt to get the authorities to hear them and pay them their wages. We join these requirements of miners and demand that people pay their wages. Not to waste $3 billion, as Ukraine paid for imported coal last year — Russian, African, Vietnamese, Chinese, and so on. In general today, more than 40 percent is imported coal, instead of a billion dollars to buy coal on Red Coal and give people a job, pay. There are no 1 / 1 billion bracelets to build a mine on Volina and to extract more Ukrainian coal. They don't pay salaries on government mines for months with coal mountains. It's a policy when we're told about energy dependency. Real energy dependency, real energy dependency is when Ukrainian miners get wages and at our stations burn Ukrainian coal, Ukrainian peat and Ukrainian gas. And when they buy imported gas and imported coal, that means that the currency is exported abroad, providing jobs for our competitors. This is a policy that leads to the fact that then the International Monetary Fund dictates to us the conditions: what should be the wages of the Ukrainians, what pension, what interest rates on credits for the national business, what is the price of gas and land markets. We, myself and my team, are proposing another policy -- a policy of a new economic course: to pay wages to Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian workers, and to extract more of our own coal, our own peat and our own gas, because this is the key to energy dependency, to tariff cuts, to energy-generating housing and utilities, and the main thing is to increase the income of Ukrainians. Because the real fight against corruption is to raise wages, increase income and support the national producer. We're going to the budget committee today to consider a bill, budget changes, agree to pay the miners' salaries. Tomorrow the bill will be reviewed immediately in the Parliament Hall and paid to miners. Pay to the miners! Sailors and all who work in Ukraine. People pay our wages. Not for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u83	We thus completed the law, discussing the Higher Education Act in Ukraine. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, close word. Does the reporter Greb Roman Volodymyrovich insist? Does the head of the committee insist, the closing word? Then please, Greba, one minute's closing. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that we are moving on to the decision-making process. Please, Roman Volodymyrovich, one minute's closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! I look forward to your support. Because all of Ukrainian education, namely: 20 of the best universities in Ukraine are waiting for your support, are waiting for the energy-generating of buildings and buildings so that our Ukrainian students can engage in and receive education in decent European conditions. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u85	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. It's about educating our students. And I'm sure there can't be any political aspects in the future generation that can disengage the room. Let us all unite in support of this law. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. Don't come in. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) between Ukraine and the North Environmental Finance Corporation (No. 0184) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, pay attention to each voice. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll support the Ukrainian students. Vote. [[11:43:55]] For-191 Not everyone's here. If you'd like to invite the deputies into the hall, I'll put them on the way back. Let me show you through the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 68, National Front – 49, Opposition Block – 2, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 17, Fatherskina – 10, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 7. So, colleagues, I'm addressing factions' heads with a request to invite MPs into the hall. I'll be right back. And I'm asking everyone in this room to support the ratification. I'm sure it'll be right, it'll be fair. All right. Look who's not around, and invite me to the hall. Colleagues, I urge everyone in the towers to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement ( Project “Ukrainian Higher Education” (No. 0184). Please carefully take part in the vote. I ask everyone to vote and to stop any discussion. Andrew, do you have a card with you? Denisenko, the card's with you, right? Please vote in favour of the return to debate 0184. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please support the entire hall. [[11:46:04]] For 197 I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues. If there are no votes, the ratification will be rejected. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I'll read the factions again. Peter Prashenko Block 72, People's Front 51, Opposition Block 1. And, colleagues, I emphasize, it's about teaching students, it's about the future of Ukraine, and I'm sure there's no reason for us to discuss it. This is just to support. And that's going to be right, and that's going to be fair. Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 16 (more), Parenthood – 10, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 6. So, colleagues. No, we're done here. Is there an offer to exchange ideas? Is it accepted? Okay, let's exchange our thoughts, and then I'll go back to voting. Could it be Krivenko? Siewakovsky. Please, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, once again I address everyone, we must vote. We have to give a signal to society and education that we are willing to invest in it. But once again, speaking of what we should vote on, I want to remind the educated that there is a certain responsibility for what we invest. So we need to see how the cost is spent. That's why we vote yes, but we need to be heard. Together, strength and education are our future. Children should stay here in Ukraine, we have a good quality higher education, we have a great higher education. And that's why we have to vote in favour, and that's why we don't have another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u87	And I'm going to ask you, you see who's out of the way, on the left, call back, find people to come into the hall. Please, from the People's Front, Taras Kremen. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, please support this draft regulation, it is not only important in the part that is financed by the seven higher educational institutions of Ukraine, it is in fact the first tranche that will allow for the subsequent and subsequent for the thermalization, energy-processing and improvement of the conditions for our universities. These are actually universities, including nationals, that go to the top-best universities in Ukraine. These are the universities that are now actively involved in supporting the defence sector. These are the schools that prepare the brilliant graduates of our universities. That's why I'm asking you to support me. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u89	Colleagues, don't leave the hall. I address the heads of the factions, let the deputies not leave the hall, but invite them into the hall. Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u90	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, you are now highly dependent. We support this ratification, but we don't vote. We demand immediate consideration of question 8362, this is the payment of wages to miners. This bill needs to be considered and introduced into the hall. Now put in a public statement, a promise that tomorrow morning you will submit this bill for consideration, and the Opposition Block will give the votes that the coalition is unable to give today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u91	You know, I'm talking to everyone. I find it unacceptable to put the political future of our children on the market. I find it unacceptable to trade with our children’s future. I think we need to unite. Yesterday, as I promised, I'll put the day session in order. Did I put it up? Was that fair? We did the right thing. We form the order of the day together. And, colleagues, today we're looking at higher education issues. And please go beyond political ambitions and vote in favour. From Fatherland, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u92	Dear friends, dear colleagues, take the pens into your hands and see what is written in the draft law. Without trade in land, without rising tariffs on gas, without the terrible conditions that the IMF today puts in our state, into our government, they give us 5 billion dollars, they give us 5 billion dollars. You multiply 160 million euros, you multiply by a course, 5 billion -- a gift to modernize our higher education buildings. Guys, it's got to be weird not vote for ratification, and it's got to be some other condition. Guys, don't be surprised. We're given without conditions, take it. In the European Union, there are neighbourhood policies, there are dozens of programs. Guys, we don't use huge possibilities, and they look at us like we're freaks. Let's not surprise the world. I'd like everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u93	Colleagues, and in parallel, while we're talking, call someone who's not in the hall, invite them into the hall, see who's not in the faction. Maybe there's someone else, there's two in the towers, invite them into the hall. So Romanova from Self-Help, then Shahov from the will of the people. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u94	I also wanted to add that the geography of these universities that we are now voting for modernization is widely represented by all of Ukraine, the higher educational institutions that are modeling it. This is also our University of Dragomanova, this is also the Lviv University of Technology, and the Kharkiv University of Technology, and the Vinnitsky University of Technology, and the Chernigian University of Technology, this is the best higher education institutions in Ukraine, from east to west, from south to north. Please vote because it's on the scales of children, it's the rectors who aren't guilty, and you don't have to appeal to miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u95	Thank you. And I also emphasize, look, maybe someone's in the hall, call me back, find and invite me to the hall. Please, Shahov, one minute from the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u96	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, it is surprising that everyone who has gone from factions to the rostrum has supported this ratification. Donors give us billions of dollars, they help virtually Ukraine, which is at war. And those who do not vote today are practically the betrayal of the Ukrainian people. Each of you are parents, mothers, parents who are taking to school today and help build roofs, build thermal seams today, build and provide normal energy for our schools. Today I ask and demand to support this ratification for Ukraine, it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u97	Thank you. I also urge you in the "will of the people" group to call back, see who's there to come to the hall. Two more speeches from the non-fractional and we move on to the vote. I'll bet you, colleagues, that's when I'll use you to invite MPs into the hall. Please look who's gone, call me back and invite me to the hall. Guilty one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u98	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, everyone saw, in the winter, our students didn't go to school because it was cold because they saved money from the university. And Romanov's colleague said that the geography of universities is the whole of Ukraine. And now all the political forces that are in Parliament must vote. Anyone who does not vote needs to understand clearly that it is necessary to inform all students throughout the country to see who is not at work. As our speaker can be humiliated, he constantly urges you to go to work, go to work. I guarantee a few people are sitting in the dining room right now. Therefore, the request, to publish a list of those who do not vote in favour of this decree, but all to vote, including, please also, the Opposition Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Mr. Victor, we have a minute, I'm giving you an assignment, go to the dining room, get them out, beg, beg, beg. Oksana Jurinec will speak in just a minute, and I think we're going to go to a victory vote. Please, Oksana Jurinec, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, this is a truly important treaty to be ratified. It's been going on for seven years, so talk to the heads of colleges who are waiting for this program to actually work. And in fact, if you want mathematics, there's a very low percentage return, and they're very convenient. But there are powerful big knots that have 200, 100 years of history, these are big buildings, they have to help upgrade in this way, they won't be able to do it any other way. I'm asking you very much, support, it's thousands, tens of thousands of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u101	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is the closing statement, one minute of Irina Heratchenko, and we're going to the vote. In this minute, please look who's gone, invite us to the hall, and in a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today most of the talk was about miners, not education. So I met different groups yesterday, including the miners ’ teams. Someone came, someone was brought here, those who, we see, who, they don't hide. But what I'm saying is that miners talked not only about their salaries, but also about their children's education. And that's why I think it's very important if we're going to protect some segment, protect Ukrainian children, including the children of miners, to learn in modern colleges. I want to remind you, there were also a lot of speeches here today about the movers. So here we have eight evacuees from occupied Donetsk. And I also want to address those political factions that are very important to this particular problem, the problem of displaced people. Well, you can't be in a position against miners, but you can't be in a position against miners' children. So I'm going to the Opposition Block with a big request to vote, too. to vote in favour of this decision and not to contradict each other's laws. And of course, it's absolutely fair that the coalition is primarily responsible for voting. But just like that, when we go to the polls, nobody talks about me being in opposition, walking the job, not voting. Let us unite now both coalition and opposition, as is always the case during important ballots, and together we will vote in favour. That's what we're talking about. And we thank all the deputies who conscientiously attend work either on Wednesdays, Fridays, Tuesdays, or Thursdays. Today in the hall, these are the deputies, let's vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u103	So let's move on to making a decision. He's coming. A "buffet hundred" came up. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the first vote on the return, and then I'm going to have the ratification. a proposal for a committee decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Each voice will have a weight. And the first vote is to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Ukraine Higher Education Project) (0184) and go back to the law. I ask everyone to vote carefully, please support. Ivan, Ivan Vinnik! Arthur Gerasimov! The card should be in the nest during the vote, not in the hands. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice, please. Let's unite. Please be supportive. [[11:59:08]] For 217 We didn't make it. Please, I'll do it again. I'm asking you, colleagues, now everyone to take up their jobs. I'll ask you to come to the hall again. A few votes are not enough. So, colleagues, Peter Dustenka's Block, 81. I think we can invite some more deputies. People's Front - 58, Opposition Block - 1, Self-Help - 14, Radical Party - 17, Fatherland - 10, People's Will - 6, Rebirth Party - 6. Colleagues, let's take up all the jobs, I'll put it back on now. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, which provides funding for Ukrainian students throughout Ukraine, including for displaced persons, including for all regions. And who supports it. For the children of miners. And who supports our children, our students, I ask for your support, and I ask you to vote. So, please vote, please support the return. Vote, colleagues, please support every voice, vote carefully. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:00:52]] For 221 Lord has entered, there will be voices. So, colleagues, five votes. Five votes. Prepare to vote, please take your seats. I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this consideration. Five votes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u104	That's who's breaking up our children's upbringing and teaching. And I ask the rectors to pay attention to who is voting under this law. All students, all of our students, who are studying in Mariupola, Zaporozhye, Herson, in Dniper, in Odessa, see who is voting. I'll read it now. Block of Petra Poshenko – 83, National Front – 61, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 17, Fatherskina – 10, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 5. Let all Ukraine see who trades and political trades destroy Ukrainian education. Look at these people, and let them look the students in the eye, and bear their responsibility to the Ukrainian people as well. I'm very tolerant, I treat everyone with respect, but it goes beyond any limits, whatever boundaries it goes through. So, colleagues, let us unite and show that without them we can make decisions. Can we, colleagues? Let us unite and show our students how we can work. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, don't come out. Return the self-help member, please. Come back, please. I'm betting on the vote, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, and I'm asking you to vote for the return of Ukrainian students for Ukrainian education. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, carefully every voice, please support, please vote, vote. [[12:03:20]] For 232 We're back. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification 0184, proposed by the Committee, on the basis and as a whole. We vote, colleagues, students, Ukrainian education. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice, carefully, we vote. [[12:03:50]] For 233 We made a decision. We accepted the ratification. And I want to thank all the factions for the mobilization, for the active and active work. It was an important ratification, and it was very important that we were able to accept it. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 85, "National Front" – 64, "Resistance Block" – 1, "self-help" – 14, "Radical Party" – 19, "Fathership" – 10, "Will of the People" – 6, "Party "Resurrection" – 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u105	Post-faction, show me. 27! 27 – non-fractional. Thank you, colleagues, for uniting the hall. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. And I'm asking everyone at 12:35 to return to the hall. I remind you, we are continuing our work, as I reported, on the basis of the National Security and Defence Act. At 12:35 a.m. we begin the discussion, please all arrive at the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u106	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking all the MPs to come to the hall. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you, does everyone have a table that they want to work on? Mr. Victor, Mr. Victor Pinzenik, Victor Pinzenik, is there a table? Self-help, is there a chart? "The Opposition Block," do you have a table? Is that right? "Paternity"? There's no radical party. Please give one copy to the Radical Party so they can work. "The People's Front," is there a table, committee members? Is that right? And the Peter Dust Block? There's a table, got it, got it, got it? Okay. And the non-factional? And self-help did. As soon as he turned to the faction, they confirmed what they had given. Colleagues, may I have your attention? Throughout the night, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus worked to make a literary reading as well as a legal reading. The table is in the hall. But about 150 copies are now being printed, and within half an hour they will be distributed in the hall so that we can work. Of course, there may be warnings. But I'm asking everyone to understand the important thing. The National Security and Defence Act is not only Ukraine's internal commitment, it is also a reform of our country's security sector on the way to Ukraine's NATO accession. And it is extremely important for us to be able to adopt and consider the law before the July NATO summit. I also want to tell you that the committee, when making decisions, has taken into account those proposals and recommendations that NATO partners and NATO representatives have given us in Ukraine. Since this law is important for joining NATO, we also have a very important position as partners. And so it's very important that, when we talk about the law and we discuss it, we also take this aspect into account, the position of our partners. Our path is NATO, a key guarantee of security for Ukraine, it is a key guarantee of our victory in war. And that's why we have to take great respect for those recommendations made by the North Atlantic Alliance. And I invite everyone, especially the right-wing authors, to consider the draft National Security and Defence Act. I want to remind you that we are considering the law in the second reading. In general, the law introduced 364 national deputies, some of whom were considered by the committee, some of whom were rejected. I plan to start work now on the agenda, and we'll see how the discussion goes, and the committee can meet again today at the committee meeting. And tomorrow morning, in the morning, I plan to finish the discussion and move on to making a decision. So I'm announcing a draft Ukrainian National Security Act (No. 8068). And I invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Ivan Yuliyovich, to report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u107	Good morning, dear colleagues. In my view, this is an important day today, because today, Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament is implementing legislation that will completely transform, reform Ukraine's security and defence sector under NATO standards. Why is this necessary? Because Ukraine is the subject of an open world. This world today is aggressive towards Ukraine, aggressive is the politics of the Russian Federation, which is a direct geographical northeastern partner. Ukraine's neighbour, ex-partner, today is an enemy defined in Ukrainian legislation, by the way. Remember, we passed the Act on Depopulation, where the date of the beginning of Russian aggression was determined, and the measures that Ukraine is taking to counter and deter Russian aggression. So in order for us to win this war, and any war ends either with victory or defeat, for Ukraine to win is to restore territorial integrity within a state-defined border, we need support, we need support from the NATO bloc. In order to become part of NATO, Ukraine must take the first step right in the Supreme Council – a revision of Ukrainian legislation. That is why the President of Ukraine introduced a bill on Ukraine’s national security on February 28, 2018. This project was immediately given a proper discussion in a journalistic environment, in an expert environment, it might not have been clear to anyone from the very beginning, because really the principles that are laid down are fundamentally different from those that existed in the administration of the security and defence sector since the Soviet Union and were largely unchanged over the years of independence. Perhaps this was the main reason why Ukraine found itself in a difficult security situation. Perhaps that was why Russia occupied part of our territory. And maybe that'll be the motive for us to succeed today and do everything we can to correct these mistakes and allow Ukraine to become part of NATO. On March 15, 2018, before we adopted this project in the first reading, the Committee received a copy from the Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Turkinov, the Secretary of the RNBO, from the President of Ukraine, of a letter from the United States Ambassador Mary Jovanovic, from the Ambassador of the European Union in Ukraine Hugo Mingarelli, from NATO Ambassador in Ukraine Alexander Vinnikov and from the Head of the Consultative Mission in Ukraine Linkjawiczus with observations to the Presidential Text. These observations could be grouped into nine areas, nine parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u108	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u109	During this period, starting on April 5, when the project was adopted in the first reading, we adopted a decision that actually duplicated the observation of a letter requiring that the text be redrafted to the second reading, which was actually made by the committee. On June 15 the same leadership of Ukraine received a letter from our Western partners with the same signatures to support the final edition, which resulted from the joint work of the working committee group and also a group of our international advisers with full support, which states that the text proposed for second reading is fully in line with the European and NATO standards for the administration of the security and defence sector. In the context of this letter, in the context of these works is made a table for the second reading. It has 427 proposals, of which 117 are either editorially or partially, or completely, rejected 312.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u110	So let's move on to the right-hand side. In our tradition, I'm only going to announce those changes that have been rejected. If one of the deputies wants to raise a question on the right, which has been taken into account editorially, or by what has been counted, by raising a hand, I will give my word. It's a deal, isn't it? So, I get it, we're starting with one, right? Taras Shepherd, please, 1 revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u111	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I just want us to figure out for ourselves how we're going to work on those amendments. Because in fact, really, there was a committee yesterday, and actually the committee had to look at each of the amendments and figure out. Ivan Yuliyovich! It's just that the head of the Supreme Council can't hear. Yesterday, the committee was to decide on every amendment. Sadly, this did not happen. And the committee took one decision, one decision was to vote on all the amendments in such a position that tomorrow the Supreme Council would consider the bill and be determined by each amendment individually. So the committee, I think, didn't do its homework, and he switched his work today into the parliament wall, and that's why there's probably going to be a slightly bigger discussion here than we thought. When the secretary reported, he said that 117 amendments were included. Sadly, this is not true, even editorially. And so there's a lot of amendments that say they're edited, they're not included at all: 1st amendment, 2nd and 3rd. The first reading text is completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u112	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u113	The text of the first reading is exactly the same as the text of the second reading, although it is noted in front of the amendments of the national MPs that they are included. That's not true, and so in order for us to sort out the text of the document, we're going to have to make those changes that don't match the reality, but we're saying that they're editorially accounted for, we're going to have to put them on confirmation and we're going to fail because otherwise we're not going to go to this final edition. So actually, I'd like to propose a 1 amendment to the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u114	Mr. Taras, we are at the same time. Can you hear me? At the same time, we have responsibilities that the law must meet NATO standards. If we now make a number of adjustments that have been made to their recommendations, we can simply get into some difficulty. I'm just beginning to think about it, for the discussion, and I'm telling you about the sense of responsibility, too. Because unfortunately, in the laws that we implement into international agreements, the position of the committee is important, but also important recommendations. Please, Mr. Ivan Vinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u115	The first amendment relates to the proposal to change the title of the bill proposed by the President, "On Ukraine's National Security", and proposed the title "On the Fundamentals of Ukraine's National Security". Obviously, this is part of the correction because the text remains the one that was "For Ukraine's National Security." We didn't support the word "bases" because NATO standards provide for a whole law without mentioning the foundations. And the requirement of article 92 of the Constitution that the foundations of national security are defined solely by the laws of Ukraine, mentioned in the preamble to the draft, was a compromise and agreed option, in accordance with NATO standards and the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution. That's why this right here is edited, you can put it on confirmation or you can't put it on, it doesn't affect the decision of the fourth column of this table.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u116	I have only two forms of betting: one for taking it completely or for confirmation. You insist on what happened. You're insisting on confirmation, aren't you? So I'm going to put one vote on the motion for confirmation. The committee says it's not important, but the committee took it into account. Who's in favour of confirming the 1st article, please vote. Who's in favour of the committee, please vote. The committee's editing is part-time. [[12:50:41]] For-47 The decision is not made. So 7-a. Don't insist. Two at a time. Please, 2nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u117	I just want to explain again, in order for both the national deputies and the Chief of the Supreme Council to understand, we have actually faked the table for the second reading. Because the first column is the law that we voted on in the first reading. And then the MPs were amended, and they said they were partially accounted for, in fact, they weren't accounted for in any way. And in the fourth column, there's an editor for the first reading, which is the third column that doesn't correspond to the reality. So now that we're putting on confirmation, really, so that we don't delay time, just the secretary might not comment on these amendments, we'll just technically vote them out, we'll go through those amendments that don't fit the reality, the definition, because yesterday the committee was supposed to do that. Maybe the task force, someone hastened or not treated him very carefully, I want to believe that, technical errors, we just need to get them out of the way by voting right now. There's no confusion about the concept of the law, and it stays in the order in which it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u119	Colleagues, I would like to remind everyone of the function of the Supreme Council Committees, which performs a purely advisory function, is being prepared for decision-making by the Supreme Council Parliament itself. We approved the table for the second reading, of course, of those proposals of the committee that are set out in the third column on the status of the right -- whether it is counted as being rejected or taken into account in an editorial way. They can be questioned in the session room, and that's actually what they're doing. So saying that the committee faked something is absolutely groundless. I want to remind you that before she went into the session hall, this tablet was checked by the Supreme Council's Editorial Office, the Supreme Council's legal office, and it was properly programmed. The MPs are doing this, and I welcome you to the session room. Work on the text, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u120	It's on the Supreme Council website. It's on the Supreme Council website.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u121	So, colleagues, I ask you to have a constructive discussion. I want to make another point. We're going to have a very busy day tomorrow. We will have to adopt the Anti-Corruption Court Act tomorrow, and 7441. The more amendments we can make today, the more we will be able to perform the tasks that the Supreme Council faces tomorrow. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 2. Who's in favour of supporting the editorial editing of the committee, please vote. [[12:53:58]] For-59 59. The decision is not made. Fourth, Taras Shepherd. Four o'clock, Dove. Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u122	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I would still like to take our colleagues' correction into account: Heratchenko, Ionova, Friz and Matuzko, and explain the logic. Because the preamble now refers to articles 1, 2, 17, 18, 92 of the Constitution. But, Mr. John, you yourself realize that this is an inexhaustible list of articles that regulate the principles of national security are also a number of other articles. It is therefore totally illogical to make a limited list of articles that refer to the Constitution. From the point of view of legal engineering, it would be very correct to write what is regulated there, the question of the Constitution, in fact, what is stated in heading 4, that this law is in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, without listing the relevant reference articles. By the way, this is also the observation of the General Legal Authority. I ask you to consider this and follow the only norm-making practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u123	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u124	Logic was the legal regulation of our State’s specific sphere of activity in relation to its entities that implement or are subject to regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u125	I'm sorry, let's follow the Rules. If we change, we'll make the right decisions in this session room, not in another room, I hope. That's why we followed the President's suggestions that this law adequately provides the basis for national security, as required by article 92. And in general, what's happening now, in my opinion, is kind of a possibility or a desire to disrupt the adoption of this important legal framework. a legislative act in Ukraine that is adopted for a purpose. It's not about your speech, it's about previous speeches and evaluation of the committee's activities, which I strongly deny. The committee did not falsify the table in any way, the committee did not try to falsify anything, and the committee took all the decisions in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u126	I mean, I understand Mr. Dove is suggesting that we accept the Friz amendment completely. It's full-scale. Who's in favour of accepting Amendment 4 in full, please vote. [[12:56:47]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. We haven't gotten to her yet. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th. 17th, Germany, and then there'll be Eden. Please, Mr. Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u127	Germany, the Opposition Block. First of all, I'd like to say that we don't have to put a tear in here, or a report on the case, the more the chairman that there's little room for what it is, you see, we have a block waiting for us and everything else. I'd like you to work clearly under the Rules, this is prescribed by the Constitution and the Law of the Rules, and you're not putting tears into the rectors, you're now publishing a report to another. So I would ask you not to let that happen again. And next, with regard to this amendment, see part of the first article. What's this part about? What are we talking about? It's a matter of national defense. So a proposal was made to rule out what was there. They are these, these declarations, they bear neither meaningful nor legal burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u129	Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u130	Do you insist on voting? So 17 amendments were rejected by the committee. Those who support the 17th Amendment of Germany, please vote. [[12:58:58]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 19th. And, fellows, we don't give in to tears. We're clear on the Rules. Moreover, it does not break through any argument, any political position. Please, Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u131	Yes, the honourable colleagues would actually like to discuss the professional importance of my amendment 19 at the committee meeting, but unfortunately there was no such possibility. So please support Amendment 19, where terminology defines environmental safety as a component of the national security and defence system. Ukraine’s national security, which protects society’s vital interests, the environment from the real and potential threats posed by human and natural factors. We realize that our enemy can kiss our very environmental security, our environment, our natural condition, our water condition, our air condition. And I would like the Ukrainian security and defence forces to consider this component of Ukraine's national security. I would ask the Hall to support this amendment and acknowledge the importance of this law for our Euro-integration, Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u132	Thank you for your support. Amendment 19 was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:00:34]] For-63 The decision is not made. 20th. Don't insist. 21st. Levus Andrey. Turn on the microphone, please, Levus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u133	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm in charge of this readjustment, I'm in charge of other rights. I think that the committee's editing is, first of all, completely approved by our strategic partners, all four. Secondly, I would like to make a few things clear about the situation around the Ukrainian Security Service, which is now being widely raised in the media. In supporting the direction of rights that speak of cancelling the non-proprietary functions of the Ukrainian Security Service, I would like to warn against legal nihilism, since the Ukrainian Security Service is regulated by 12 BSS laws, of which 6 refer to the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption. Either we're making adjustments to all these laws right now, or we're not overloading. I'm talking about the regulations that apply to the Security Service. Or we are not overloading this law right now and working on the new Security Service Act. Framework law. The proposal of the committee and our partners is to identify only four functions that are common to all Western services, among others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u134	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u135	Among them, we do not foresee a role in the fight against corruption and organized crime. I would also like to draw the attention of the national MPs to the fact that the NATO summit will take place on 11 July. Yes, it is not our fault that the law, let's say, introduced by the author of the legislative initiative is not. softly speaking, it's not ideal. But there are clearly defined corrections supported by our strategic partners and the adoption of such a formula will enable us to make a positive decision at this summit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u136	Thank you. So you still don't insist on editing, I won't even call them. 22nd, 23rd? Don't insist. 23rd. Germany insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u137	Germany, the Opposition Block. I would like to say about the author or subject of this law and the reporter. Well, it's clear that national interests are one thing, and social interests are human. And national interests are a nation. And because this law is about divorce, are we essentially the most important social standards? It is the life, the honor of the people, the health of the people. Then he's not here. So I would like to make a proposal to accept the amendment that was introduced. And putting the person, his honor, his health, and his dignity first. This says the Constitution, article 3, obliges us to take care of it, a state. And we as public men, if we're called, we have to work on it. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u138	Thank you. I'm betting on an amendment to the 23rd People's Deputy Mimchenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:04:04]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 22nd. Shepherd Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I'm just suggesting. Because I think at the beginning of this law we're exchanging thoughts and accusations to each other, but we're still going to move on and we're actually going to work clearly on the amendments, and it's going to take a lot less time. To blame someone today who wants to delay this process, I think, first of all, it's not right for the person who did these tables. This law was adopted in the first reading, if I'm not mistaken, almost three months ago. And yesterday's tables were hot handed out to the committee. Today, part of the deputies have received one copy, perhaps even more hot ones that are now being distributed. Therefore, this question is probably not a matter for deputies who question certain amendments. First. The other one. The bill is hardly the same as the first reading of the second reading. This includes literally 9 or 10 amendments. All the other amendments that are marked "edited," they're not really counted in any way. So the question is, we need to put them on confirmation, we need to knock this position down, and we need to leave it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u140	I'll just remind you one more time. You have no idea how much effort there has been and how much harmony there has been in this bill. And I can agree with you that there's going to be something there that's going to change. Well, it doesn't really change anything, it just takes time. And knowing what our agenda is, I think we need to go effectively. And, Mr. Taras, once again, I'm the only one who's held about 10 round tables under this law, and the committee's held dozens and tens. And it was all about finding compromise. True, the apparatus worked all night long. That's true. True, it was printed this morning. And now they're working and printing. And we are doing everything we can to ensure that everything is done in accordance with the regulations and transparency of consideration of the law. Thank you. 24th. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 30th. Now. 29th. First 29th, then 30th. Kishkar, 29th. And then 30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I don't want to get involved in the discussion, because the really critical mass of comments to the committee's work is just going to be added. And all night long, Andrew Volodymyrovich worked not only on the apparatus but also on the national deputies who tried to study the tablet. I didn't have a complete tablet in two hours. And in fact, a whole series of questions that break the hall, or the bus station, or the President's office, will continue to split the hall. Let's discuss them better right now at the moment of discussion and find consensus. He is really in the body of the law, and no one wants to overthrow the law itself and adopt it. And I insist on voting on this amendment. I think my definition is perfectly correct and correct and more correct than what is stated in the table before this law is considered. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u142	Thank you. Hence, who supports the offer made by Kishkar that 29 amendments should be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:08:01]] For-59 The decision is not made. 30th, Eutusek. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we have now, indeed, had a very large number of statements regarding the fact that Ukrainian security officials, especially the K chapter, are taking some steps on. The pressure on entrepreneurs. I mean, we're now looking at the National Security Act of Ukraine, our nation. And I fully agree with my colleague Levus, who just talked about what is not regulated by this legal and regulatory act of the Ukrainian Security Service or any body that is part of it, not to mention that the "K" chapter has very many indicators that have already been handed down by the courts. So what we're talking about today is that our partners, colleagues and from Europe, and from the United States, have also agreed on some of the regulations that say that, by exercising human and civil rights and freedoms, the economic and information security of the State, there is also a right that we have just discussed with a committee representative. It is, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u144	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u145	Please finish. It's also in the document. So the law has absolutely nothing to do with the Ukrainian Security Service. Let's not screw up this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u146	Thank you. 31st. Don't insist. 32nd. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 39th. 37th. The 37th Teteruk is written to me. Yes, 37th, Shkrum, I'm sorry. Yeah, 37th Scrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u147	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I would also like to really support our self-help colleague, Taras Shepherd, because by procedure it's a very important law that should be considered irreprehensibly. Unfortunately, the committee did not go to the amendment committee yesterday, and the table was issued only to the committee members yesterday. We just looked at it today and we were able to look at the final text, and the table was only 30, and we got one table on the faction. Colleagues, well, I'm like a deputy who wants to work and wants to see that from the amendments I've been working on, there's no account of why, which questions remained on the B.S.A., which questions remained from the point of view of defining our national interests. Well, that's not how it works, that's against the Rules, that's definitely not the law that can violate the Rules. I am simply reminding you of the Rules: Deputies are to be handed over, during discussion, and during the vote on the amendments given to the table. Or let's change the Rules, I'm just in favour, and I'm only in electronic form, and I don't print anything at all, I don't share anything. But today, when I can't get a table, because it's just a faction, it's only 30 in the hall, it's not exactly the right story. With all due respect, the committee had a few months to work on these tables.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u148	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So 38th. No, 39th. 38th, Germany. Please, Germany 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u149	Germany, the Opposition Block. Once again, I would like to point out that the chairman in sparring with the rapporteur on this bill is in violation of the Rules. We are deprived of the right to take part in the debate as subjects of the legislative initiative. Nothing's been handed out, new edition. Let's move on. Look, my amendment is listed: taken into account. Look what's included. Nothing's counted. No one wrote it. This is a direct reference. It's a direct falsification of legislative projects. That's what this is about. And it will be subject to review in the Constitutional Court. It is a disgrace when the Head of the Constitutional Court has already said that there is a need to limit it, because there is a mass of unconstitutional laws being passed. Where are we going, your Honor's reporter and speaker? Where are we going?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u150	So before I started, I asked everyone if there were tables. I've been confirmed that there are plates. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u151	There were three speeches from you, your honor. In the first speech, you pointed out that we're here to shed some tears from your faction. That's not true. The committee didn't have the task of taking tears out of your faction. There may be other questions for law enforcement. But this is not for us, please. First. The other one. You know, as I understand it, the ex-judge of the Constitutional Court, the content of article 3 you're talking about. It's about the highest social value. And when you say that this law should regulate the greatest social value when the law on the security and defence sector is definitely derivative matter. But the main legal regulation is in a very different sphere, and more so when it comes to NATO standards and respect for them. If you want to call things your names, please quote the Constitution correctly, I'm sure you're ready to pronounce it. So when you misquote it, I understand that you are deliberately manipulating it to testify to a political position that is different from, for example, the position of the subject of the legislative initiative or the decision of the committee that was adopted. And as far as correction is concerned, in fact, your work is partly duplicated to a large extent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u152	Thank you. So I'm voting on Germany's proposal that number 38 be taken into account. Whoever supports this position, please vote. [[13:14:10]] For-25 The decision is not made. 40th. Don't insist. We've already passed 35, I'm sorry. So you're going to have a lot more lines. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone sounded, I called each one. There will be further revisions, call it, on time for work. 42nd. Don't insist. 44th. Don't insist. 42nd. He insists. Please, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, in this article, the first definition of the "producer-industry complex" after the words "the defence-industry complex of Ukraine" is the population of public administrations, enterprises, institutions and organizations of industry and science to be supplemented by the words "all forms of property." It was my turn. Somehow it's rejected. Why, let me explain, is important, and I will insist on my point. In Ukraine, there are many strategic enterprises that have a private form of ownership, but they have unique technologies and are extremely important for our defence and security. There is a strong situation where, for example, the Motor City arranges for the transfer of unique technologies to Moscow's strategic allies, impacting not only Ukraine, but also our key partners in Asia, such as Japan and around the world. Depending on the form of ownership, all PPE enterprises have to work exclusively on Ukraine’s national interests. And for such cases to be prevented, we have not seen corruption and abuse, so I would like to insist on my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u154	Thank you. And I'm betting on a vote of 42, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:16:00]] For-68 The decision is not made. 43rd. 44th. Don't insist. 45th. He insists. Cool, please. You put the card up, so wise. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u155	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, my amendment, it's similar to what my colleague Mrs. Hopko just said, and I'm here with her in full solidarity, and I'm afraid the committee didn't support it. But I would like to talk about the strategic things of this bill. Do we need a national security bill? Yes, I do. But if we analyze this bill, which is now being published for our second reading, it is more like the War Security Act, which is certainly part of national security. But national security is a much broader concept that embraces the sphere of environmental security, economic security that embraces other spheres that are extremely important for national security. So it's a shame that we're going in such a race to adopt such an important bill, and it would be more logical for the committee to define this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u156	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u157	Not as a bill on the foundations of national security, but as a bill on the military security of Ukraine. This would be more correct and correct in view of the content of the document that we are currently considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u158	Thank you. But, colleagues, I'm only going to add 10 seconds, because we can drag too long. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u159	The definition of the defence and industrial complex, as proposed in the text before the first reading, there are no limitations on the form of ownership, we followed that logic. Enterprises, institutions, industrial organizations and sciences, respectively, if there is no limitation on the form of ownership, are considered any. With regard to security, the project really describes military security, state security, and public security. And these are the areas that regulate NATO standards in the area of national security. We had a discussion on the committee on other areas, and we determined that the defence planning documents would define the priority areas of national security and defence, in particular. And if necessary, they will be governed by separate laws, as partly done today. But the main emphasis will be on planning documents in the areas of national security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u160	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 45. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:19:09]] For-44 Thank you. The decision is not made. 47th. Yeah, first 46th, Kishkar, then 47th, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I do not agree with John that this law applies only to military security. In fact, the body of the law itself as a framework, once again, do not look here for NATO standards directly in the body of the law. This is a framework law that determines the direction of the State's activities with a view to ensuring national security. As for the revision itself, this is the only discussion, probably, that was on the committee and was really discussed. I'd insist on my own definition, but this is a question for the defence industry or the military industry, but it's a question for the parliaments to support one another. It is desirable that it be the only one for the whole body of the law. The definition of "military-industrial complex" and the definition of "military-industrial complex" and the definition of "community." Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u162	And there'll be a comment. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u163	Defence issues are not only about the military, so what's going to provide an industrial defence complex, it's going to provide not only that much to the military. That's why we've followed the term "producer-industry," and that's why in NATO standards it's called defence industrial, which in direct translation is defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u164	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to determine for Amendment 46. The committee turned her down. [[13:21:02]] For-37 Thirty-seven votes in favour, the amendment declines. Next change from the "Freedom" MPs from the "Freedom" party. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u165	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u166	47th. 47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u167	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. First of all, I would like to point out that there was a violent violation of the Rules, which is now happening when the table came online only an hour ago. Although the deputies were to be given 10 days before the second reading. And now. Just an hour after it appeared, a second reading of the bill is under consideration. How is it possible for normal responsible deputies to deal with this issue properly now? And then, you see, they call one amendment after another quickly and they say, sorry, your 35 amendment was called, you didn't raise your hand, so we won't go back to it. So, first of all, I insist that we go back to the 35th Amendment -- once, once, my. Secondly, I insist that we abide by the Rules and that this issue be postponed to the minimum until tomorrow. And when it comes to amendment number 47, it's about whether this law applies when there's definition of a defence and industrial complex, of enterprises of all kinds of property, not just state-owned enterprises. The reporter says that it is not only state - owned enterprises, but it is clear from the spirit of the law that it is State - owned enterprises. So it's worth inserting: all forms of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine what amendment 47 was rejected by the committee. [[13:22:38]] For-38 38 votes in favour, the amendment is rejected. The author of this amendment insists that we return to the 35th Amendment, which is the authorship of Yuri Lewchenk and his colleagues. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u169	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that the term "national interests" has been much better defined than in this bill, but in the current Ukrainian National Security Act. Because it is questionable that the bill refers to the national interests of a person’s life, only a person taken separately without regard to the people, without regard to the State or the secure conditions of activity, and so forth. So I propose that we put this definition in the original version: the national interests of Ukraine are the vital material, intellectual and spiritual values of the Ukrainian people as the bearer of sovereignty and the only source of power in Ukraine, the crucial needs of society and the state, which are guaranteed by the state sovereignty of Ukraine and its progressive development. That's the way I propose to express this definition of the national interests of Ukraine, because it fits much more logically, in fact, the title of the Ukrainian National Security Bill, not some declarative thing about individual individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u170	The committee has taken this amendment into account in an editorial way, 35, and the author insists that it be fully incorporated into the text of the law. Please make sure you have 35 revisions. [[13:24:17]] For-43 Correction not counted. Next, 48th Amendment, Svetlana Zalitchuk. Don't insist. Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. Next, 50 amendments, National Deputy Germany. Please, the microphone. Oh, I'm sorry, there was another 49, Skrum. Don't insist. 50th. 50th, Basil Germano. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u171	Germany, the Opposition Block. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that this is where the reporter called some things. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u172	I can't hear anything!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u173	I'm not a soldier, you're not a corporal. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to say that article 3 quoted the Constitution of Ukraine. And third. You don't have to teach people's deputies, find another room. As for the amendment. Please don't interrupt. Get some stamina. As for the amendment, I insist that all forms of ownership should really be indicated. All of them. Look what this is all about. Businesses that process, repair, and everything else. What are we talking about? Read on. Read the games. That's why I'm asking for confirmation to make a proposal about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u174	Let me finish, 15 seconds, please. I see the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u175	Yes, on all forms of property. What colleagues offered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u176	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, the amendment concerns the same positions as the previous authors did. I'm asking the hall to decide on the 50th amendment. The committee turned her down. [[13:26:09]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. Next, 53 amendments. There are many national deputies who do not insist. 55th. I don't insist. I just announced it. You will, won't you? Ostap Ednak. Sorry, Kishkar. Paul Kishkar will be the 54th amendment. Edited. Please, 54 revisions. Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I insist that the definition proposed by my amendment is more precise in terms of national security planning. I understand that we have planning, as if it's happening, to implement that planning. Most of the time they don't reach that hand, but with the defined definition they clearly see and define the functions of government, they clearly define priorities, and I hope that it will eventually go into planning documents that will be carried out in the future. Please support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u178	Colleagues, I'd like to make 54 adjustments. The committee took it into account. Paul insists on taking full account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:35]] For-50 The correction is being rejected. The following 56 amendments. The authors do not insist. There's a large team of copyright repairs. Then 58th. Svetlana Zlatchuk. Don't insist. Thank you very much, Mrs. Svetlana. 62nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u179	60th. I'm just marked out, probably, which are completely rejected. 60 amendment, People's Deputy Kishkar. This amendment is taken into account editorially. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! I, by your permission, supported by Yuri Lewchenk on values and national interests, have asked him to support and supplement this article, this article: "this is the basis for planning and implementing national security policies in the medium term."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u181	So this is long-term planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u182	That's right. Because it's a stage, the medium term is a stage. Well, that makes sense, Ivan. Well, that's why it breaks up that we don't have a short term in the medium term, and we forget about the strategic one at all. So I insist on supporting my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u183	I've got the position. There is a comment by the committee representative. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u184	The hierarchy is built in such a way that the next level, the lower level of the planning document in the field of national security or defence planning, is developed on the basis of an approved higher-level strategy, consistent with the national security strategy or the strategic defence bulletin, for example, which is a long-term planning element in the war area. Well, it's all defined here. I want to remind you that this law repeals the existing law on defence planning and establishes new principles again with the corresponding hierarchy. That's why it's all balanced here, in my opinion. The committee turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to identify yourself for the 60th amendment that the committee has edited. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:41]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. Next 63. The national deputy of Evtushok. 62nd? Now, 62nd. This is a very large copyright team and Mr. Kishkar is one of the authors. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. In fact, it's about the strategic development of the defence and industrial complex, which is when all of us military were interested in writing and selling for scrap metal. And it's about refinement of this planning, when the things we want to write are passed on, for example, in the Ucroborprom to restore and sell it as a whole product, or at the second stage to recompile and use the deployment for new products. We had some plans in the country for the military to lower the leftover cost, reduce the quality of the metal scrap and then get some heft out of it. We insist that this is the defining point in dealing with the material that we actually have left in the Ministry of Defence and other military formations for the work of the Ucroboranprom. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u187	Colleagues, please identify for 62 corrections. The committee turned her down. [[13:31:12]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. The next 63 is an amendment. The national deputy of Evtushok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u188	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to immediately thank the committee for supporting 51 amendments, and it was about the disposal of military supplies. 63 amendment only indicates that in paragraph 25 of article 1 of section I, the word "military-industrial" throughout the text is proposed to be replaced and placed in the next edition so that the word "military-industry" does not appear to be "military-industry". Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u189	Please identify 63 amendments to the national deputy Eutushka. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:09]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 64th People's Deputy Kaplan. Please, Mr. Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u190	To my profound belief, this law requires a completely different philosophical approach and a shift from militarizing it to socio-economic orientations, to a new socio-economic security platform. Look, in our country, there are complex, completely complex problems with unemployment. First. Seven million of our fellow countrymen have left the country, and in the coming years we will lose up to five million. We have extremely complex moral problems, and Ukraine is becoming the capital of sex tourism. Low wages, low pensions, severe protests. So to our deep conviction, we have to do absolutely everything today to take the socio-economic bloc into account in such an important fundamental security document. He's not there. And this is contrary to all the international ambushes in the preparation of similar documents. I've read them in the past vocation of dozens. Such an approach is totally unacceptable. To think.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u191	Please, 10 seconds to correct, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u192	Do I want my application confirmed? No, I don't. There are 40 people in the hall, 40 when important and safe laws are passed. And this is another important challenge.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to determine for the 64th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Kaplin, which the Committee has rejected. [[13:34:05]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 71 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u194	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The fact is that the bill does not have one very important thing to be there, there is no clear list of the main threats to Ukraine's national interests and national security in particular areas. In fact, we suggest that this list be clearly prescribed, a separate article 3-1 add. Because there is a need to identify a clear list of threats to Ukraine’s national security, anticipate and assess security measures against the threat of Ukraine’s national security. And that's only possible if such threats are prescribed directly in the bill and there's no obsessive norm that someone else there will determine the issue, and specifically in the law this will be prescribed. And it's also very important that there's no reference standards that then, you know, any new executive authority can change everything into its own, in fact, reasoning. This must be specified in the law. We're giving this clear list. The last list is very large and cannot be read in a minute for correction. I repeat that we cannot allow this bill to be considered in such an aberrant order, but I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u195	Finish it. Please comment to the identity committee secretary. Please, Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u196	In the Act on the Basis of National Security, at least a third of the text of the law is devoted to a list of threats. In fact, at least half of them are no longer relevant. The nature of such a phenomenon as threats is completely variable. Those threats that are relevant for the 13th hour of the day may not be relevant for the morning, but other threats may be relevant for the morning. This is an approach that has been applied in NATO countries. That the level of current threats is being adjusted to the current situation is being addressed in defence planning documents. The same applies to the areas of national interests, national security in the field of defence, in particular, this same authorization is entirely the subject of defence planning documents. It's because threats are variable in nature and the spheres of security are adaptable to the variable threats that exist on the right day. That is why it is not appropriate to list the threats. Although the content you set out is absolutely appropriate, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u197	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to determine for Amendment 71 of the People's Deputy Levchenk and his colleagues. The committee turned her down. [[13:36:59]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. Ostap Ednak, please. Excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 77th, Svetlana Zlatchuk. Please, Mrs. Svetlani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I propose to add part one of the first article 3 to the position of "the territory of Ukraine within the state border." This amendment refers to the fact that, speaking of our territory, not all of the territory is currently controlled, such an amendment could contribute to a correct understanding of where we care and protect our national interests. At the same time, I also want to make one comment. Regrettably, the table for the second reading appeared literally 10 minutes ago on the Web site of the Supreme Council, which had not been accessed before. The deputies also received the actual physical chart itself at the time of its consideration, and it was not possible to get acquainted with the law. Such a review of the National Security and Defence Act is a threat to our security and defence. Because we're going to be catching some, maybe some adjustments that we haven't been able to get to know before. Just like with the anti-corruption court. Thus, such an examination is simply unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u199	Thank you. I would like to draw the attention of the secretariat and the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have the table posted on time, the more the committee worked on the amendments yesterday, and it was possible to do so. I would also like to draw attention to the national deputies of Ukraine, which is important and active in working on the amendments in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u200	I've had an address, Your Honor. I've had an amendment report. And I responded to him, and it is my duty under the Rules to hear the MPs, to listen to them, to respond to them. Do you understand? And now, please, I ask you to vote on the amendment of 77 of Svetlana Zalitschuk. And the committee rejected her. I'm asking you to be sure. [[13:39:25]] For-36 36 "for", the amendment declines. 78th. Before that, there was an amendment of the German national deputy. Are you going to insist? Please, German microphone, 78 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u201	I want to emphasize once again that this legal nihilism, which is being promoted here all the time, will lead to nothing good, except that recognition is unconstitutional to this law. And as for the amendment, I'd like to emphasize that you can't write amorphic things into the law. National territorial integrity, write "the territorial integrity of Ukraine." That's the first one. And secondly, it was suggested that we write that the natural environment within Ukraine is also Ukraine, that's what we're talking about, and the story already confirms that. That's why I'm asking you to put him on the stand. And the second. I would like to say immediately about the proposals that are coming, read the integration of Ukraine into European political, economic, security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u202	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u203	Thank you. What is it? It's a set of words, and we should be a legal platform. Nor can he acquire membership in the European Union and NATO. That's where they come in. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I'm not for confirmation, but I'm putting your amendment to the vote now, because it's rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a determination, please. [[13:41:28]] For-28 The correction is being rejected. Next, I understand, the 80th Svetlana Zlatchuk. Seventy-nine? It's taken into account editorially and there are other authors. Let's move on to 80th Mrs. Zalitschuk. Okay. 79th, Eutusek. Please, Mr. Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u205	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The position of the Fatherland faction in the context of the adoption of this bill lies not only in the context of the work of our armed forces and everything else, but also in the basis of protection, within the security of every Ukrainian citizen. Thus, the amendment clearly states that national security and defence policies are designed to protect people and citizens — their health, life and dignity, constitutional rights and freedoms, secure living conditions; their democratic values, prosperity and conditions for sustainable development; their constitutional order, sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity; their territories, the environment, including from extreme situations. Please do not put the amendment to the vote. And thank you to the committee for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u206	Thank you. Please 80 amendments, Svetlana Zalitchuk. Don't insist. Thank you very much, Mrs. Svetlana. 81st, Svetlana Wojciekhowski, Irina Heratschenko and Irina Frez, and Maria Ionov. I'm going to insist from our team on this amendment, 81st. And now I'm going to tell you what this is about. We propose that part two of article 3 be supplemented by a new paragraph: "equal rights and opportunities for women and men in all areas of national security and defence and decision-making on conflict prevention and resolution." Of course, we insist on this amendment because, unfortunately, today, the power structures and the Ukrainian army remain the most conservative of Ukrainian women. Even though there are 25,000 women under contract in the Ukrainian army today, there are only 3,000 of them officers, who clearly do not meet the professional potential of Ukrainian women, the educational potential. And of course, it's unacceptable that today we have 43 female lieutenant colonels, we don't have any female combat generals. Although Ukrainian women today, and this is a closed circle, they are essentially doing the same combat tasks as men, but because of the ban letters that exist, including in the army, they have no right to go to those officer posts that then allow them to become generals or colonels. And we think that this should be a fixed right for women who have chosen a profession for themselves to serve in the army, to have. there is a fixed and their right to occupy those positions that are accessible to men. And in fact, we also express resentment at the fact that today's power structures remain conservative towards Ukrainian women. We ask you to support this amendment. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u207	What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u208	Amendment 81 concerning gender equality in our power structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u209	Ukraine’s Constitution, which is a higher law in Ukraine, in no way discriminates against citizens or people living in Ukraine on a gender basis. Indeed, there is a separate professional legislation that applies, for example, to the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which sets different conditions for men and women. Our committee concluded its second reading of the parliamentary bill No. 6109. We have an agreed editor. As far as I know, tomorrow after the conclusion of the National Security Act, we will address the issue of the establishment of equal rights between men and women while serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in other military formations. Please support the session room tomorrow and settle the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u210	However, we insist on 81 amendments and we ask the session hall to identify itself. The committee turned her down. [[13:46:07]] For-44
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u211	Correction rejected. Next, 82 revisions are also by Heratchenko, Ionova, Fryz, Matuzko. I insist from the authors of this amendment on it, and I would like to read it, dear colleagues. Add part two of article 3 to the draft with a new paragraph: rights and opportunities for women and men in all areas of national security and defence, and decisions on conflict prevention and resolution. Dear colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine certainly guarantees the rights and opportunities of men and women. But in practice, unfortunately, we see today discriminatory norms work primarily in the force structures, including in the army. I would like to point out once again that, despite the fact that among the 25,000 women who are under contract today serving in the Ukrainian army and performing combat tasks, there is no woman, for example, a general, we don't have female lieutenant colonels. For them to be, it is a law - abiding right. You know, recently we've been witnesses, women MPs, the next story. The women from the front came here for a reward, and they were at the front door of the session hall, one of the women met her classmate with whom they had studied, and he honestly admitted that he had even cheated on her. It's an amendment. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm done. So he's already a lieutenant colonel, and she's still a senior lieutenant. We have discrimination, and we ask for 82 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u212	I'm betting 82 votes. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:48:10]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'd like to point out that we're going too slowly to make amends. Of course it's impossible to predict, it's impossible to determine, but if we're at this rate, we won't get to the Anti-Corruption Court tomorrow, colleague. So, I'm asking you more concisely. 83rd. Don't insist. 84th. Don't insist. 85th. Shepherd Chi. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I think it's difficult right now to blame someone else for wanting to break the bill, because we see a warning about amendments actually from the deputies of all factions, including the Presidium. And actually, I want to ask the reporter a question, because I actually think he was one of the co-authors, along with the head of the committee, of the decision to adopt the bill in the first reading, and where it was pointed out that before the second reading the committee should expand the issues of national threats. First. And the second. Also from the alternative bill take the work that was there to integrate them into this bill. That's why I have a question. Because it was proper for me and for me to make no adjustments, considering what the committee believed. who made the decision, and according to those who headed the task force, that they would be counted. Today all these moments are missed. Therefore, I would like to comment on why the working group has failed to implement Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u214	I've already stopped on the issue of threats. You took part in these sessions, you know why we didn't write them in the law. As for the alternative, we've taken up the regulation of the appointment of a civil defence minister, which is the principle of democratic civil control, I think it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u215	So I'm voting on the Shepherd's proposal that 85 amendments be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:50:40]] For-46 The decision is not made. 86th. Cyprian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u216	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Legislators, we are now considering a special law. A special law cannot regulate relationships at all. What does that mean? And why does this amendment, written in part, need to be taken fully into account? Mr. Winnick, please listen. Ukraine’s fundamental national interests are: (two dots). There is still a comprehensive list of fundamental national interests. So any fundamental national interest in industry, economic development is not even being considered. We have determined by this law a comprehensive list of fundamental national interests. So the amendment of both Teteruka and Krulka, which is in the field or in the aspect of national defence, is correct because it is a special law. And we leave the general definition in the legal field of Ukraine. So please put this amendment to the vote. I understand there isn't. Add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u217	30 seconds. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u218	And in general, I remind everyone -- both the audience and the listeners and all the colleagues -- how the Anti-Corruption Court Act was adopted. For two weeks we struggled, considered all the adjustments. Then he left, and the committee head read for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u219	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm proposing that Amendment 85 be adopted in full. 86 to be fully accepted. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:52:41.]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The '90s. I've been stressing, and I'm stressing again, and I said from the beginning, I'm going to announce those amendments that are rejected. Otherwise, each MP has the right to raise his hand both emotionally and without shouting to say that he wants to announce the amendment. 87th, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u220	87 amendment please be submitted for confirmation. And on occasion, I remind all my audiences, listeners, and colleagues. When we passed the Anti-Corruption Court Act and for two weeks we fought in this room to improve this law, as a result, the committee head went to the rostrum, and in 12 minutes he read something that was adopted on the committee. There was a vote on a bill that "does not go to the head" not only to the Ukrainians, but also to our colleagues from the IMF, which they said yesterday. That is why I recommend that we not engage in the practice of profanity at this time. We'll set it up in two hours. Tomorrow you will put the law to the vote and you will accept what you need. And then we'll be sniffing our heads where they don't feel. You can't look at the bill like we're doing right now! And this amendment, by the way, clarifies the special rule of law. And I suggest you put her to the vote and support her fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u221	87th. Author: Kishkar. Turn on Kishkara's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u222	I am deeply concerned about the order of the sitting. Because as the author of the amendment, I insist that I have the first right to explain what the substance of the amendment is and why I will require it to be supported. But it's a pity that there is no moral or moral-moral friend of mine who here spoke so beautifully of morals, slammed the door and went to rest. But as I go back to law school, I insist that my definition more correctly defines the fundamental principles of national security. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u223	Thank you. So who's in favour of supporting the 87 in full, please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:55:07]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 88th. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u224	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Parubia, and reminding him that he is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the highest legislative body, the Ukrainian Parliament, and not the cleric of the President's Administration or the Cabinet of Ministers, that he adheres to the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where it is clearly written that in 10 days we should be given a table for the second reading, not in 1 hour, yes, and then said that we are going through a very long amendment. This is what the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine says. Right. Is it even available, is it possible? That's the first one. Second, with regard to Amendment 88. It's written that it's edited, and it's not counted at all. The amendment prescribes a detailed list of Ukraine’s fundamental national interests. The point is what the reporter used to say when we talked about threats, that we don't have to write a detailed list because threats change. And the interests don't change, do they? For their own good, they did prescribe a list. But the list was a very small one out of three, and in no way did they mention the economic threat, absolutely. So we suggest making a broad, clear, clear list of all the fundamental interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u225	Thank you. Since I have been asked to do so, I would like to remind you that Parubi Andrey, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is a consistent supporter of Ukraine's NATO accession. And I'm asking the national MPs not to be like the promosk team in the hall and not to interrupt the consideration of the bill. Whoever wants to stop Ukraine from going to NATO won't be able to do any technical or any other manipulation. Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 88, it's taken into account editorially. Who is responsible for supporting it fully, please vote. [[13:57:14]] For-48 The decision is not made. The '90s. Don't insist. 91st. Don't insist. 87th. What's that? Number? 89th, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u226	I just want to remind you that NATO standards are not just tanks and planes, but NATO standards are including compliance with the law and the Rules, and the order of adoption of those laws. And as we've been looking at this bill, I'm going to go back to the list of those threats. Unfortunately, deputies, including members of the committee, were not able to all participate in the working group because they simply did not know that such meetings were taking place. That's why this discussion is now taking place in the hall. And when we talk about the list of national security or threats that are facing Ukraine, we need to follow them for 5, 10, 15 years ahead and work on the system of response to those threats, to expose them and to make them so that they don't occur. If we start to respond to the threats we face tomorrow morning or tomorrow night, it tells us about our shortsightedness at all, and then we work in the fire mode. It's not an effective country or whatever. So that's why the lists need to be defined, and the Constitution requires us to do it by law, which we're not doing here right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u227	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting the vote on the motion to make 89 amendments fully accounted for. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:58:58]] For-40 The decision is not made. 87th. 92nd. 93rd. 94th. 94th, Kishkar, please. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u228	To be honest, I'm not going to keep reminding myself of the absence of my landlady, Caplin. But by commenting on the rejected committee on some of the strange reasons for my amendment, I insist that the national values of Ukraine are conceptual, ideological, consolidating factors and life guidelines that form the basis of human security and development, society and state, and have an impact on the realization of national interests and goals. In any sphere of social life, whether it's in the environmental sphere or in the defence or in any other. They are, they have been, they remain values. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u229	Thank you. So, whoever is supporting the 94th People's Deputies of Chiscara, please vote. [[14:00:18]] For-55 The decision is not made. 96th. Don't insist. 97th. He insists. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u230	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to draw the attention of our viewers and audiences to the disgrace that is now taking place when the Head of the High Council says that compliance with the Rules and that the work of the People's MP on the amendments for which he receives his salary turns out to be something bad, wrong and some kind of delay. That's what's happening today. Mr. Andrew, Mr. Andrew, I hope you'll excuse me. When you approached me and there was another freeman, you'll apologize when we vote in favour of this bill, you'll apologize. Because you said we were putting something in there and we didn't want to vote for it. We vote for him, even though he's got a lot of drawbacks, but if you keep your word. But I remind you that the way to NATO is not to understand certain bills, yes. The way to NATO is to stick to it, to abide by existing legislation and to live by the law, and not to live by the understanding of how you and your authorities live. Then, if you live by law and work for the Ukrainians, then we'll be in NATO. And until you live like this, and you work in your pocket alone, we'll be in a completely different city than NATO.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u231	I remind you that according to the Rules we need to speak on the subject of amendments. Otherwise, I am obliged to speak. And please don't violate the Rules. And I would like to remind you that some deputies have not long since been running, have been taking care of embassies against NATO. Today they have indeed changed their position, but not so long ago they have been those who have done so on a public level. And, colleagues, Ukraine will not stop on its way to NATO. I'm sure no one will stop us. So I'm betting on a vote of 97. Whoever supports it has rejected it, please vote. [[14:02:25]] For-25 The decision is not made. 98th. Don't insist. 99th. Don't insist. 100th. Don't insist. 102nd. Don't insist. 103rd. Don't insist. 105th. Don't insist. 106th, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u232	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, I point out that we are law-makers and law-makers. What does this amendment say? This amendment says that transparency involves action. Transparency is actually the property of someone and something. And if you say terms, so the definition of the terms used in the law, in fact, in the preamble is passed by law, and you define in the text of the law the transparency that it foresees. Why, then, is availability, and why is openness not determined? That's why I'm proposing. Reporting, for example. So this is legally wrong, in terms of the legal field at all. Please place it on the stand and do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u233	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 106. So the committee supported her and asked her to support her. Please vote. [[14:03:53]] For-44 The decision is not made. 107th. Don't insist. 108th. Don't insist. 110th. Don't insist. 112th. Don't insist. 111th. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, I actually want to help the authors here now, because. And go back to the repair that just failed, 106th. This is really an amendment that is echoed in the letter of our partners and that should still be left in the body of this law if it is voted on. I hope we can get back to her in the end. But this is the one that says how quickly this law was done, how it was drawn, that when this amendment was added, added to this table by a separate paragraph or sub-item, the next paragraph did not change its numbering, and we now have two sub-items under number 3. So I ask the rapporteur to point out that in the future, in the case of technical law enforcement, the next sub-paragraph from 3 stood at 4 in relation to the fact that this amendment 106 would still be approved and voted. That's why I don't insist on the 111th vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u235	Thank you. 112th. Don't insist. 113th. Don't insist. 117th. Don't insist. 115th, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u236	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. In line with this included amendment, control of the activities of the organs, attention, the security and defence sectors in general. Do we have any definition of what the security and defence sectors are? This time. Secondly, it turns out that only the Supreme Council committees will exercise control, and the Supreme Council itself can control it only through a committee. I mean, if you read it literally, it's written legally incorrect, if you don't say worse. So please place it on confirmation and do not support it. It's not properly spelled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u237	Thank you. I'll bet you 115 votes for confirmation. The committee supported her and asked all national deputies to support her. Please vote. [[14:06:25]] For-39 The decision is not made. So 118th. 116th Krulka. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, I would like to return to the decision we approved this bill in the first reading. In view of the fact that, before this bill, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority had written observations on the 12 pages, half of which stated that the bill was in contravention of the applicable rules of the Constitution and of the individual norms of our other legislation, and the Committee had undertaken to bring the draft law into line with the Constitution. Nevertheless, the findings of the General Legal Office are now being presented before the amendments are being considered. And they repeat the same warnings that were given to us by GNEU. That is, there is a question of a potential danger to this law that it may in the long run be denounced and cancelled. So I have a question to the rapporteur on which amendment numbers did the committee correct the situation as to the inadequacy of the provisions of this bill of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u239	Please, briefly, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u240	We have two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which state that the committee does not carry out its own control functions, it only contributes to the exercise of parliamentary control. After studying these two decisions, we wrote security, security, and the content of the Committee Law itself. The parliamentary committee will have no independent supervisory functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u241	Thank you. So 121th. Don't insist. 128th. Don't insist. 130th. Don't insist. What's that? Please, Oksana Jurinec. Turn on the Jurintz microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u242	I don't want to go to the previous comments, but I want to say that this law is very important. Important, because under the leadership of Irina Frez of our delegation to the NATO Assembly, there are so many things that we are talking about today, and this has been able to see Ras Yukniewishen, who had a visit to Lviv, who saw the Academy of Land Army, who saw how the Ukrainian-Polish-Lithuan brigade works on our Javorovsk region. Such a law is necessary for adoption, so that Ukraine can move on. Of course, there is the participation of our peacemakers. But I want to emphasize and take it very seriously and to adopt all these amendments and, in particular, this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u243	Thank you. 131st. Don't insist. 132nd. 133rd. 136th. 138th. 137. Please, Kishkar. 137th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u244	I am a reporter, repeating the question of Taras the Shepherd. There are critical remarks and fears of our inner ones, which should somehow convey to you. This law should not be repealed after its examination in the Constitutional Court. And so we're asking you to just explain to the MPs how the situation of correcting those comments that were made by the Chief Scientific Expert on this has changed. to the body of this law at the time of the first reading. In our view, this situation is in no way remedied. If you have a different view, other articles and others, perhaps a table, tell us how this is corrected. And with regard to this amendment, of course, it must be fully supported in the way that Dobrodom prescribed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u245	Thank you. Anyone who supports accepting the amendment in full, please vote. [[14:10:31]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 138th. 139th. 140th. 141th. 143rd. 145th. 147th. 150th. 152nd. 148. Kishkar. 148th, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I am in favour of speeding up the consideration of this bill, and of course I will support it, and I will ask for the support of my colleagues. But we cannot take into consideration things that are important to the State that will determine a whole range of laws and regulations on the basis of this law that will be adopted in the future. So let us carefully read out the amendments, correct the shortcomings that the GNEU points to, and move on to the full consideration of the bill tomorrow. Thank you and please support my revisions. 148, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u247	Do you insist on voting? So who's in favour of 148 amendments being accepted, who's in favour of 148 amendments, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:11:54]] For-38 The decision is not taken. No, please, I'm willing to give everyone a word, we can finish tomorrow night, and the best thing is to go to law school on Friday. Please, Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u248	What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u249	Oksana's gonna sound, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u250	Please put to the vote Amendment 146, I insist on a vote. Declined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u251	146, rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[14:12:36]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 152nd. I've already read 152. 156th. 158th. 159th. 163th. 166th. 168th. 171. 173rd. 176th. 180th. 181. 185th. 187th. 194th. 197th. 198. 199th. 200th 203th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me hear the next one, I've already passed it. Let's do the next sound. 195th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, I actually want the rapporteur to try to explain how we are beginning to entrust the President with powers that are not provided for in the Constitution. At the same time, the President is the Supreme Commander, and nowhere in the Constitution is there any provision for the President to issue any directives. We are now in the National Security and Defence Act as the Commander-in-Chief, and we give him the right to give directives. And I have a simple question about how the courts are going to look at these decisions, these directives, if they're considered to be worthless, because the Constitution does not provide for the signing of such documents. Do you not think that just such things in such a law should not be allowed, so I ask you to put this right to confirmation and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u253	So 196-a, right? 195th, right? 195th. Who's to accept it fully, please vote. 195th. Sixth, sixth, I mean. Five, still five, yeah. [[14:14:52]] For-26 Let's make this the last amendment, 194th. Then we'll figure out which one we'll continue from tomorrow after the meeting. 194th, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u254	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Part one of the first article 13 of the bill stipulates that, I quote, "How does the Supreme Commander of Ukraine issue orders and directives on defence?" First of all, what are these orders and directives on defense? How is this determined, and what can be understood? You can write anything you want. Secondly, the adoption by the President of Ukraine of such documents is a way out of his constitutional powers, since under article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine, on the basis of and for the implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, issues decrees and regulations that are mandatory for implementation in Ukraine. The adoption by the President of Ukraine of other acts, other than decrees, orders, is not envisaged. You are now creating such a totally stupid situation that, first of all, you're putting unconstitutional norms into a bill, a very important bill. It's a very important law, which then maybe some of the bastards can cancel it, yes, because of the totally corrupt Constitutional Court, first. And second of all, you're in the middle of a completely preposterous mechanism that some, let's say, wrong president can use for a lot of other reasons and a lot of other reasons than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-20-m0.u255	So I'm going to vote 194. This is the last vote, final. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:16:31]] For-25 The decision is not taken. And now we're looking for where we're going to stop. 207th. 208th. 197th. So with 197 revisions, we start tomorrow. I'm asking the Lewchenka People's Deputy tomorrow to be at 10 o'clock so we can begin our review of 197. And my colleagues, I also ask the committee to take into account today's discussion so that during the meeting we can take into account the warnings that were made during the discussion. And I'm counting a lot, and hopefully tomorrow we'll be doing more dynamic work. I remind you, tomorrow we have the Law on the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Court Act. So we have a very important maximum mobilization and dynamic work tomorrow. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I wish everyone good work on the committees. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
